===PAGE 1===
Advisory Committee for Acceptance and Diversity 
First meeting, January 9, 2014, 7 pm, T.C. Passios Building, Room 13. 
In attendance:   
Gregory Berthiaume School Committee present 
Michael Mackin School Committee present 
Robert Ebersole Board of Selectmen present 
Charlene Stephens Community-at-large present 
Richard Beardmore Community-at-large Alternate pres ent 
Nicole Hennessy  Student Representative present 
Casey Voyer Student Alternate present 
Elizabeth Rawlinson Parent present 
Darruenee  Vann Parent present 
Bob Meek-LaVeck Parent Alternate present 
Paul Bertrand Parent Alternate not present 
 
Also present, Loxi Calmes, Superintendent of Schools. 
The meeting was called to order at 7:02pm by Greg Berthiaume as Chair of the School Committee. 
Lunenburg Town Clerk, Kathy Herrick was at the meeting, distributed the open meeting and ethics law 
handouts, and then swore in all the members present. 
Election of officers – upon motion and second the following were unanimously elected as officers of the 
Committee:  Charlene Stephens, Chair; Elizabeth Rawlinson, Vice Chair; Robert Ebersole, Secretary 
Discussion of charge and path forward 
As adopted at the 11/20/13 and 12/4/13 School Committee meetings: 
“The Advisory Committee for Acceptance and Diversity will be charged with assessing the cultural 
climate and tolerance and diversity status in district and recommend changes and improvements to our 
program.  How can we improve tolerance, respect and diversity in our district?  Make recommendations 
on personnel changes, programs, and recommendations for policy changes that are necessary to ensure 
we have created an environment that is supportive of diversity.  Provide a ballpark budget figure in 
March for any changes they recommend.  The Advisory committee’s charge should be complete by end 
of school year. 
Composition:  Two school committee members, one member from the Board of Selectmen, one student, 
one alternate student, one community-at-large member, one community-at-large alternate, and two 
parents.” 
===PAGE 2===
Note that the Administration is working with faculty on a parallel track as this committee.   Also, at the 
High School, students are working on what is going on there. 
A question arose whether this committee would have recommendations to the whole town.  We are 
going to start with the school and then perhaps telescope into the community, possibly with events such 
as the band concerts, bonfire, and PTO fair. 
We discussed what is included in the definition of Diversity – race, sexual orientation, socio-economic, 
cultural.  This may need to be defined further when we work on the acceptance component of our 
charge. 
 
The committee discussed many aspects of the charge: 
What is going on now? 
Policies and Procedures are on the school website.  How do we get data that is already out there?  What 
are markers of our healthy culture. The superintendent will distribute info that she has available.  
Fitchburg State University may have additional information and serve as a resource. 
Upper grades -- Handbooks are signed by parents and students, but many students see it as another 
homework assignment and unknown how many read it.  Lower grades – contracts are signed 
There is a Circle of Power & Respect smaller group in Middle School and similar for Elementary.  No 
vehicle for Secondary. 
For years the schools have actively worked on bullying and diversity to make the schools safe and 
respectful. 
How does the school communicate?  Letters to home.  FaceBook has limitations – how to manage with 
existing staffing.  Not everyone has a computer.   
 
How do we accomplish our charge? 
Discussed that we would brainstorm and try to stay at a higher level for recommendations, and then let 
the school administration implement. 
 
Specific things that we brainstormed that may help what we want to accomplish. 
Have speakers closer in age to students.  Examples: Chris Heron, Facing History/Facing Ourselves. 
Have each class sponsor an even – so four events each year – keeping it fresh, different for each grade, 
students have a voice 
===PAGE 3===
Student exchange program – with another school.  Cultural Exchange – Joint efforts with Art, Music, 
Sports, science, Electronics – then merge together. 
Start of school year activities – football, in the past October fair. 
 
Challenges:   
Primary/Elementary – time to do this? High School – group assembly-limited time. 
Parents and how what happens at home affects what we recommend.  Some students can talk with 
friends but not parents.  Some parents are not involved.  Parents may be involved based on specific 
activities – athletics, music other events.   
Socio-economic impact – which parents have the time to go to events or pay for extra items?  This has 
led to the rise of the Booster Club involvement.  User fees have become a barrier to involvement – some 
do not want to self identify as a person in need.   The school has made a special effort to make events 
and activities affordable through a safety net.  The School Committee has a goal to eliminate or reduce 
user fees. 
Next Meeting: 
At our next meeting we will utilize a project management tool proposed by Charlene, whereby everyone 
will use sticky notes to list items for us to consider.  Everyone will present their comments, without 
discussion, so that everyone hears.  The sticky notes will then be put on the board and like items put 
together.  Everyone will have the opportunity to move items.   When this is done, we will review the 
outcome.  Some items may be valuable, but outside of our charge or need additional work.  They will be 
recorded and presented along with our recommendation as items to be considered in the future. (Put 
on the “parking lot” page) 
Homework for Committee:   Review all policies and procedures on the Schools website.  Review 
materials to be sent to us by the Superintendent.  Be prepared to start into the project management 
exercise.  Review minutes and bring comments or corrections to the next meeting. 
Future meetings: 
All at 7 pm at TC Passios Room 13 
January 30, 2014 
February 6 and 27, 2014 
March 13 and 27, 2014 
The meeting was adjourned at 8:58 pm.  