===PAGE 1===
Advisory Committee for Acceptance and Diversity 
Third meeting, February 6, 2014, 7 pm, T.C. Passios Building, Room 13. 
In attendance:   
Gregory Berthiaume School Committee present 
Michael Mackin School Committee not present 
Robert Ebersole Board of Selectmen present 
Charlene Stephens Community-at-large present 
Richard Beardmore Community-at-large Alternate pres ent 
Nicole Hennessy  Student Representative present 
Casey Voyer Student Alternate not present 
Elizabeth Rawlinson Parent present 
Darruenee  Vann Parent not present 
Paul Bertrand Parent Alternate present 
 
Also present, Loxi Calmes, Superintendent of Schools. 
The meeting was called to order at 7:00pm by Charlene Stephens. 
Approval of meeting minutes  
The committee voted to approve the minutes of the January 30, 2014 meeting 
Brainstorming activity 
Charlene distributed the results of the brainstorming activity from our last meeting regarding “What 
steps are needed to show that the school has a diverse and accepting environment?”    
Mission of the Committee/Mission of Efforts going forward beyond the term of this committee 
Three members provided their take on this task – Elizabeth Rawlinson, Richard Beardmore and Paul 
Bertrand.  These were presented to the group and it was agreed to combine those by Elizabeth and Paul, 
and have Dick’s to be for implementation.  This will be put together by Bob Ebersole and reviewed at 
our next meeting. 
To foster a community that understands, values, protects, and celebrates the needs of all individuals 
regardless of race, color, creed, mental, physical abilities, sexual orientation and socio-economic level.  
Our goal is to expose students to diverse and multicultural environments through education and 
community wide activities, and to help students, faculty and staff become advocates for multicultural 
and social awareness and acceptance.   
To encourage and elicit socially responsible behavior that reflects acceptance of all people. 
In light of this consideration, we will investigate:  
===PAGE 2===
•  Perceptions and attitudes of school community members (student, faculty and staff, 
administration, and family) 
•  Curricular and extra-curricular programming aimed at issues of multiculturalism, and 
•  Possible additions/deletions of school-based activities with the purpose of celebrating cultural 
diversity in the schools and community. 
 
It was noted that there are many efforts ongoing in the schools with students, faculty and 
administration.  The effort of this committee is to provide additional information and we may overlap 
some of those efforts, but not duplicate them. 
 
Homework for next meeting 
Each member will identify items on the brainstorming list that may have a financial cost that will be 
funded either by the school budget or some other source such as grants.  We started a discussion on 
what would be included in the job description for a coordinator – whether a new person, or duties 
added to an existing staff.  It was noted that there had been staff for this in the past, but it was 
eliminated by budget cuts.  Other expenses include costs for speakers, supplies, and educational costs 
for faculty. 
 
See attached listing of brainstorming results from the meeting on January 30 
th . 
The meeting was adjourned at 9:00 pm. 
Upcoming Meeting Schedule: 
February 27, 2014 
March 13 and 27, 2014 
 