===PAGE 1===
Advisory Committee for Acceptance and Diversity 
 
Sixth Meeting - March 27, 2014, 7 pm, T.C.Passios Building, Room 13. 
 
In attendance: 
Gregory Berthiaume School Committee   present 
Michael Mackin School Committee   present 
Robert Ebersole Board of Selectmen   not present 
Charlene Stephens Community-at-large   present 
Richard Beardmore Community-at-large alternate  pre sent 
Nicole Hennessy Student Representative  not present  
Casey Voyer  Student Representative  not present 
Elizabeth Rawlinson Parent     present 
Darruenee Vann Parent     not present 
Paul Bertrand  Parent Alternate   not present 
 
Also present, Loxi Calmes, Superintendent of Schools and John Chetro-Szivos. 
 
The meeting was called to order at 7:04pm by Charlene Stevens, Chair. 
 
Approval of meeting minutes 
The minutes of the previous meeting (3/13/14) were approved. 
 
Dr. Chetro-Szivos discussed the FSU data collection and analysis process. 
The plan is to interview participants by 4/24 with data analysis complete and presented to the 
Advisory Committee by mid-May.  The report card will be based on the results of the interviews 
and will include: 
 Evidence of bias, ethnocentricity, etc. 
 Work with the administration on subtle indications  
 Evidence that the leadership is committed to diver sity 
 Structure for improvement. 
The interviews will take place using circular questions.  An additional focus group of students 
may be interviewed in the fall (spring participants are all parents).  This is a qualitative (vs 
quantitative) assessment so only 25% participation is necessary for success. 
 
Discussion of Recommendations: 
1)  Develop a standing advisory committee modeled on the Wellness Advisory Committee 
with a focus on diversity. 
2)  Develop a budget for diversity efforts; focus on grants to fund this budget. 
3)  Out brief should have a discussion of what is already in-place. 
 
Additional work on recommendations and out briefing will need to take place over the next few 
meetings. 
 
Next meeting: 
The next meeting will be Thursday, April 10 
th . 
===PAGE 2===
 
Motion to adjourn by Mike Mackin, seconded by Elizabeth Rawlinson.  The meeting adjourned 
at 8:45pm. 
 