===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Schools Athletic Advisory Council 
Meeting Minutes 
May 24, 2018 
 
Meeting Began:   6:00 
Attendees:  Jim LaVeck, Brian Spadafino, Dennis Mannone, Jean Proctor, Eric Short, Lynn Walsh, Nicole Boredelais, Eric 
Short, Dean DeFranchesco, Jo Weigold, Allison Lilly, Karma Tousignant 
Absent: Christa  Palma, Jim Broden, Ernie Friend, Steve Powell, Arthur Thibeault, Lisa Bishop, Terry Montemurro. 
Other: Kim Mannone, Rhondal,,,,John Londa, Nadine Lorenzen, Erik Dellasanta, Courtney Z, Jen Biery, Steve Powell, Katie 
McGuire 
Review of Minutes 
Motion to accept the minutes as written:  Accepted 
 
New Business: 
 Pete McCauiff has retired and Brian Spadafino is the interim AD until July 14, 2018.  Brian reports that the job is 
different than he thought it was.  The job of AD is gravely dependent on other people.  Sometimes you can have 
everything done on your end and things come undone with the referee assigner or bus company.  If or when 
things are out of sync for the next person, please be forgiving as it may not be their fault.  John has ideas to 
rotate fields to keep prevent overuse and keep the fields viable.  It has been a successful spring season for our 
teams.  Timeframe for AD hire: Superintendent will be hired first, Principal next, and then AD.  BY June 6 we will 
have new Superintendent, and that person will hire a Principal.  There is not a timeline yet for the principal 
search committee, but the posting for interim principal will be up within a week.  Posting will be made very soon 
for an interim AD, which will allow the Principal to hire a permanent position.   
Dennis Mannone – would like equity between boys and girls sports and evening games and field usage.  This 
season, boys lacrosse had 8 and girls had 4.  Brian said that many of the changes in schedules happened because of 
rescheduled games.   
 
Jim will like the AD aware that this committee exists and that we would like input at a higher level, for scheduling with 
regards to HS becoming a priority.    
Commitments to LYSA began at 5:30.   
Dennis – high school sports should take precedence over youth sports.  
The SC policy is that focus is on HS athletics but as it becomes available, it is open for use.   
 
===PAGE 2===
Review of Concession Stand Policies and Procedures:   
 John Londa presents.  School Dept took over management of concession stand a few years ago. For a number of 
reasons, John felt that we needed to develop a policy.     Anything sold needs to come from a regulated kitchen. 
Absent from the current policy is any information about fees.   Are there any other schools 
Nashoba Board of Health – has caused a stir in the Nashoba Valley.   
What do we need to do t 
Is there anyone complaining  except John?  Why are we different than everyone else?   
Dean Defranchesco – everything sold with Music Aiders is  
John – there was no complaint.  He drafted this policy based on what he saw.  John wants authority to be  
Does this policy go too far or is it not enough?    
The Board of Health will have a permit process that will be cumbersome 
Can we have a STEP student help oversee the cleaning 
There is not an argument that we needed something in place.  
Look at the policy given the constraints we are working under: 3 sinks, grease trap, etc.  and then discuss how we will be 
able to get out from under it.   
Dean is willing to spearhead a sub-committee to get us back to what we want to do.   
 
Schedules will be pretty much set by end of school year and boosters can meet to  
Each team needs to designate a Concession Event Coordinator (CEC) to schedule concession events in School Dude.  
Person can be in touch with John for instructions on how to get an account.  
 
There is work that needs to be done on this.  They need to separate what is policy from what is procedural to go to the  
AD and facilities.   
 
Middle School Sports Discussion:  Erik Dellasanta and Rhonda Jardine-Yeats 
 Prior to 2014 there was a MS field hockey team that was stopped due to building renovations. Interest is there 
from 25 girls currently in grade 6 and 7, and 16 at incoming 6th grade level for a FH team.  There is a person 
willing to coach.  It could start initially as a skills and drills.  TO run a parent funded program Rhonda estimates it 
could be done for the $175 user fee for two coaches and 3 practices per week for 1-1/2 hours plus a few 
scrimmages.  Marshall Park fee would be $10 per athlete. School would need to request it from parks dept.  The 
recess field may be a better place to avoid the walk to Marshall Park for younger athletes.  Rhonda reports that 
this price factors in $25 per hour for coach, and Nicole Therrien is interested.  The only need would be nets.  Jim 
===PAGE 3===
will recommend that the SC authorize this, depending on allotment of field space.  If it is approved, the school 
will need to pull a permit from the parks department  
 Eric Dellasanta – we believe that we are the only school in this area without a middle school team for basketball.  
This is a hole in a town where we do pretty well for our kids.  Issues would be gym time and funding.  Would the 
TCP gymnasium be available for this after 5 pm?  TCP is now a town building and would need to be scheduled 
through the town.  Would there be cuts?  We should gage interest among students.   
 Our priority is to support the field hockey because there is no feeder program for field hockey in town, however, 
it is worthy of a discussion for other middle school sports (soccer, etc.) 
 The committee agrees that we would like to support middle school sports and it will involve creative scheduling 
and funding. Jim will report back to the SC.    
 
Waiver/Team Size/Practice Players: 
The request by SC is that we think about policy around these topics.  We do not have a written policy on team size, what 
the best make up looks like, numbers, at what point do we bring in MS students? 
The practice player model that was piloted was not very successful.   
What is the minimum number of students before you ask for a waiver? 
 
There needs to be an increase in communication and high school kids need to sign up in a timely manner.  Waivers will 
be applied  
There will be a fall sports sign up night before the end of the year.   
 
Fundraising Related to Athletics: 
 Review the recommended language for policy.  No changes noted.   
We will need another meeting before the start of the year to discuss snack shack policies 
Discussion points for committee / new AD: 
 Kids proposed a swim team.  There are 10 students interested.  Brian reached out to Leominster to inquire 
about a co-op . 
 Scheduling over vacation weeks  
 August 7 and 8 – turf field being lined and off field for two days.  Will be closed on 9th as well.  
Next agenda: 
 The make-up and priorities for next year’s council.  
 Student representation on committee – one boy and one girl.   
 
Meeting adjourned:  8:29 