===PAGE 1===
Minutes 
Lunenburg Schools Athletic Advisory Council 
Tuesday, December 4th, 2018, 7:00pm 
Location:  Lunenburg Middle/High School Rm D132 
 
Jim LaVeck: Lunenburg School Committee, member, LHS AAC Chair 
Jim Bunnell: Lunenburg Schools Athletic Director, LHS AAC Vice-Chair 
Mary Jean Davis: Secretary  
 
PRESENT: Nicole Bourdelais, Jean Proctor, Lynn 
Walsh, Jim LaVeck, MJ Davis, Kim Mannone, Kim Hedlund, 
James Bunnell 
ABSENT: Dean DeFrancesco, Tammi York, Jo Weigold 
Karma Tousignant, Eric Short, Terry Montemurro 
 
Guest attending: Greg Dupuis, President of the Hockey Booster 
Guest LHS student: Declan Fitzpatrick 
 
1.  CALL TO ORDER: 6:40 pm  
Due to low attendance, AAC meeting could conduct meeting but could not vote.  
Opening remarks: Jean Proctor very happy with LHS new addition of the swim team 
with North Middlesex, Monty Tech, Leominster, Lunenburg & Sizer.  Swim teams meet 
at Fitchburg State College.  A wonderful addition to our sports community. 
- Karma has May minutes 
- November minutes are being re-constructed 
- Topic for next meeting: Scheduling activities for Winter break 
 
2. APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES FROM:                                               12/4/18    
● Motion: To approve the minutes of 12/4/18 as circulated  
● Motion By: Jim LaVeck  
● Seconded By: Jean Proctor, the motion carried  
3. BUSINESS FROM THE PREVIOUS MEETING 
1. Purpose of the AAC is to bring all sport groups together. 
2. To help coordinate and facilitate sporting groups 
3. Enhance student athletes experiences at LHS 
4. Fundraising is the main topic as continued from last year 
===PAGE 2===
5. We welcome student representative(s) each month to share their team 
experiences.  We value all student input, which guides our discussions.  
 ITEM # 1:  Hold Games/Practices during school vacations? 
1. Last season, games and practices were scheduled during vacations causing 
some issues particularly with families vacationing - their kiddos missed out on 
practices.  No students should be penalized for missing a practice on vacation…. 
or will that be our new policy? 
2. How can we handle this?  Our recommendations?  Important to recognize that 
spring season is shorter due to:  Prom, & graduation cutting into the season. 
3. Important to get coaches opinions.  Typically, JV teams more flexible to miss a 
game/ practice vs. varsity higher expectation to attend games & practices. 
Important to note : family emergencies take precedence over practices/games. 
4. Regardless of which vacation, (Xmas, Spring vaca), - the policy should be 
consistent and added to the LHS HANDBOOK. 
5. Need to research other local schools districts policies. *Important to note that 
when players choose to vacation, it impacts the whole team particularly if some 
players trying to earn sport scholarships.  
6. Coaches typically set the tone for attendance standard.  For ie. Varsity Hockey 
has practice on vaca but JV does not.  Parents need to know this info when 
planning expensive family vacations.  
 ITEM # 2:  Student Participation AAC representative  
How do we continue to entice different student athletes each month?  
ITEM # 3:   Concession Stand: 
1. Nadine/ John Londa waiting to hear from the Nashoba Board of Health to help us 
resolve the Snack Shack issue.  WE are simply trying to meet the basic 
requirements to allow us to open our door and seel alloted items from Board Of 
Health. 
2. Dr. Burnham - is aware of the situation and trying to amend this issue. 
3. Basketball concession will consist of pre-packaged foods or donated restaurant 
food 
ITEM # 4:   Service Opportunities for athletes: 
===PAGE 3===
1. BUILD A BED: proposed by Jean Proctor and Lynn Walsh.  Proposing to 
eventually start a Chapter in Lunenburg.  First step; participate in the Littleton 
Chapter and observe their 5 - 7 stations of “building a bed” work.  
2. Volunteering builds character for all students and should be required for 
graduation as other districts require this standard.  Proposing 10  hours a year for 
each 9th - 12th grader.  We need a large scale LHS volunteer calendar to 
organize events (volunteering at walking distance from LHS: senior center, teen 
center, library, Primary School or THES) and possibly offer a Team Volunteering 
Weekend for kids to attend. 
3. Another volunteering idea specifically for Winter sports: 
“ Blue Knights for Literacy .”  Indoor literacy/ fun games event.  Possibly choose 
weekend day in March, and LHS students volunteer their time hosting mini 
hockey, hoops, mini track hurdles, running events, etc.  Teens or young children 
can donate their old books - earning a book coupon for donating.  Have book 
drop off stations previous to this event.  
5. Future Topics:  
1. Retiring jersey numbers:  discussion and action 
2. Consolidating Blue Knight Logos 
3. Conversation about how to Consolidate Booster Clubs:  
a. Most important reason to consolidate is for 
CONSISTENCY and EQUALITY  amongst all teams  
b. (For ie. ALL seniors would receive sweatshirts/ jackets, framed photo of 
the athlete, wooden “shirt” with team autographs) 
c. Fundraising monies will be shared & will go towards one unified purpose; 
this will NOT hinder each individual sport. 
6. ADJOURNMENT   
● 7:54pm 
7.  Next Meeting:  Tuesday, January 15th, 2018 6:30PM 