===PAGE 1===
Minutes
 
Lunenburg Schools Athletic Advisory Council
 
Tuesday, October 2nd, 2018, 7:00pm
 
Location:  Lunenburg Middle/High School Rm D132
 
 
Jim LaVeck:
Lunenburg School Committee, member, LHS AAC Chair
 
 
Jim Bunnell:
 
Lunenburg Schools Athletic Director, LHS AAC Vice-Chair
 
Mary Jean Davis:
 
Secretary  (Alternative secretary: Karma Tousignant)
 
 
Members:
 
Dean DeFrancesco, Tammi York, Kim Hedlun, Jean Proctor, Jo
 
Weigold, Kim Mannone, Lynn Walsh, Karma Tousignant,, Eric Short,
 
Terry Montemurro
 
 
 
Meeting began:
 
6:35pm
 
Attendees:
Dean DeFrancesco, Nicole Bourdelais, Jean Proctor, Lynn Walsh, Jim
 
LaVeck, MJ Davis, Kim Mannone, Kim Headlind
 
 
Tammi York, Kim Hedlun, Jean Proctor, Jo Weigold, Kim Mannone, Lynn Walsh, Jim LaVeck,
 
MJ Davis
 
 
 
Public Comment:
 
 
Motion to accept the minutes: unanimous
 
 
New Cheer representative:
 
Kim Lombardo
 
 
Golf:
 
Jean Proctor
 
Middle School Field Hockey:
 
Rhonda Jardine - Yeates
 
Cross Country:
 
Karma Tousignant
 
Boys & Girls soccer:
 
 
Kim & Dennis Mannone
 
Field Hockey:
Lynn Walsh
 
Ski Team:
Mary Jean Davis
 
Basketball:
Tammi York and Kim (new co-presidents/treasurers)
 
Football:
Jo Weigold
 
Baseball:
TBD
 
 
New Business:
 
 
1.)
Girls Ice Hockey and swim team:  someone approached to do co-op team with
 
Leominster (they have a full team) $250.00 User fee and $575 ice fee. Responsible to
 
get to practice on their own.  December 2018 this will begin.  2 girls brought this up and
 
will approach the School Committee.
 
 
2.)
Swim team:  will co-op with Leominster.  Swimming will take place at Fitchburg State
 
College.  Asking School Committee for approval first.
 
 
3.)
Shadow boxes have been bought.  Each team chooses a jersey/ (folded or a bib) in a
 
shadow box.  Boxes were put together but
 
 
4.)
Field house is being well used and needs to be better maintained. (not being used for
 
film watching.  Purpose is for all sports teams have access to field house.  But that is
 
not the case; field hockey sticks being damaged - 
​
policy
​
​
 being written to clarify these
 
===PAGE 2===
matters.   Informing the contract - Policy Sub committee working on developing this
 
further.
 
 
5.)
Policy for Snack Shack:  Bengals follows different rules as they are not governed by
 
H.S.  Working on Snack Shack POLICY.  We have been following the Board of  Health
 
CODE.  We filled out a permit but we do not have proper sinks, etc to have a “full”
 
kitchen.  Board of Health person in Lunenburg.
 
 
6.)
Kate Burnham was asking for information about the concession stand.  We will ask her
 
to send an update
 
7.)
Jillian:  “Captains Table” who could be here on a regular basis.  Booster parent and
 
student should be from 2 different families.  working on fielding ….finding other students
 
interested in helping with Captains Table.
 
Change in leadership has made a HUGE difference.
 
 
Main focus:  WHAT will enhance our student athletes.  Open meeting.
 
 
*Can students use the HS gym - if not in season.  Students must be supervised.
 
Teams in season will take priority - ie. football.  Can anyone supervise the gym?  Can
 
we have a trainer….., Monday and Wednesday open to students to use the gym and
 
provide the staffing.
 
 
 
Sub Groups:
 
 
Technology
 
 
Fundraising piece: Athletic Booster tab for website.
 
 
 
Service Opportunities: (Karma not here to share ideas)  Jillian , Jean Proctor and Lynn
 
Walsh help out with this committee.
 
 
Admission Fees:  Athletic Fees & Activity fees:  leader to ask school committee for
 
admission fees?  Old Business item.
 
 
 
Future topics
​
​
;
 
-Vacation schedule:  scheduling games during vacation breaks.
 
 
-Logo and merchandise:  multiple Knights logos; what so many different logo
 
 
   varieties?  Everyone was suppose to use THE SAME KNIGHT.
 
-School Committee policy needs to be made before an issue comes up:
 
    to retire AJ’s football number.  Our recommendation could be we will not retire a
 
    student’s number.  This is used to honor someone out of respect.  Future topic.
 
Possible student surveys at end of the sport season: open communication:  How do we begin
 
this?
 
 
 
Motion adjourn 8:01pm
 
 
 
Next Meeting: Tuesday, November 6th, 2018
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 