===PAGE 1===
Minutes Lunenburg Schools Athletic Advisory Council
 
Tuesday, June 4th, 2019, 6:30pm Location: Lunenburg
 
Middle/High School, Room D132
 
 
Jim LaVeck: Lunenburg School Committee, member, Brian Lehtinen: Lunenburg School
 
Committee, member, LHS AAC Chair Jim Bunnell: Lunenburg Schools Athletic Director,
 
LHS AAC Vice-Chair Mary Jean Davis: Secretary
 
 
PRESENT:  Jim LaVeck,  MJ Davis, Amanda Waltz, Kim Mannone, Kim Hedlund, Eric Short, Nicole
 
Bourdelais, Brian Lehtinen
 
 
ABSENT: Rhonda Jardini-Yeates, Tammi York, Kim Morse, Nicole Bourdelais, James Bunnell
 
1. CALL TO ORDER: 6:33 pm
 
 
2. PUBLIC COMMENT: NONE
 
3. REORGANIZATION: 
​
Jim LaVeck introduced Brian Lehtinen as the new School Committee member
 
and chair of the Athletic Advisory Council. Vote for new secretary was tabled to the next meeting.
 
4. 
​
Minutes from April 2nd were approved. Jim LaVeck will send minutes to the town clerk for approval.
 
5. NEW BUSINESS. 
​
Pilot food truck program was discussed. Consensus was that it is a good food
 
option but not a good fundraising option and donated food is a more successful fundraiser
​
.  
​
The Nashoba
 
Board of health received a call and changes were made that impacting boosters ability to fundraise using
 
particular food options. James Bunnell and school committee member Brian Lehtinen will reach out to all
 
the boosters after to identify booster representation.
 
 
Eric Short discussed the purpose of the captains council as well as the sports clinic planned that is
 
supervised by Mr. Short but run by high school athletes. The captains council meets every other
 
Thursday.
 
 
Youth Outreach Event was tabled for a future meeting.
 
 
A soccer calendar funding request was approved for September to cover banquets and awards. The
 
fundraising request was unanimously approved.
 
 
There was discussion on whether to consolidate boosters clubs or not. Members questions whether this
 
had to be done. Jim LaVeck discussed ensuring Title IX compliance, 501c3.
 
 
The committee also approved a football fundraiser of $20 gold cards to cover uniforms, equipment and
 
===PAGE 2===
incentives to sell more. Students are encouraged to sell 25 There is no family cap and no requirement.
 
Players sell during the 3rd week of August. Field hockey plans to sell the same calendars as last year
 
and will submit form.  There is not a sell to play policy or penalization. Funds will pay for banquet,
 
equipment, and senior gifts.
 
The role of the council was discussed as to enhance the experience, less fundraisers and not 10.
 
 
Field hockey discussed that they plan to do the same calendar. The calendar will be sold the first Monday
 
in September and was approved.
 
 
There was discussion on the importance of end of season evaluations for each sport and to hear from the
 
athletes as part of the evaluations of a coach.
 
 
6.
 
ADJOURNMENT
 
 
● 
​
8:03 pm
 
 