===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
PRESENT: Kim Mannone, Eric Short, Nicole Bourdelais, Tammy York, Brian Lehtinen, Jean Proctor, Jo
Weigold, Brenda Pajari
ABSENT: Amanda Waltz, Robin Bursch, Mary Jean Davis, Kim Lombardo, Rhonda Jardini-Yeates, Kim
Hedlund, Kim Morse, James Bunnell, Jim LaVeck
1. CALL TO ORDER: 6:34 pm
2. PUBLIC COMMENT: NONE
3. MINUTES: None to review.
5. New business: Vote for a new secretary was tabled for next meeting. The school committee policy on the
Athletic Advisory Council was read and discussed. It was noted that there is a minimum of four meetings a
school year. An athletic director update was given by Brian Lehtinen as there was a game going on and
James was outside. The Athletic Director had stated that all coaches will be evaluated and an anonymous end
of the season survey would be given to players. The athletic director has reviewed the new handbook which
includes a communications section for parents and players. The handbook is on the website. There was
discussion of rumors of a volunteer Assistant Athletic Director and questions of certifications, credentials, and
protocols for volunteers in schools.
Priorities for the 2019-2020 school year were discussed. The major priority was to identify a representative for
each sport in each season. Each sport was reviewed for representation. Eric Short, Brian Lehtinen, and James
Bunnell would be reaching out to coaches and potential representatives to recruit representation for golf, cross
country, indoor track, swimming, lacrosse, softball, track, tennis, and cheer. There was discussion about the
captain's council not being active during the 2019-2020 school year due to funding. There was also a
question on what kind of fundraisers needed to be requested and what did not need to be approved by the
advisory council. Brian Lehtinen would look into this and get back to the council on clarification.
There were no fundraising requests at this time but November seemed likely as the next time requests would
occur.
Student participation on the council was discussed. The captain's council was discussed as a possibility as
well as contacting James Bunnell for recommendations.
6. FUTURE TOPICS
===PAGE 2===
ADJOURNMENT
• 7:03 pm
RECEIVED & FILED
NOV 13 2019
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
