===PAGE 1===
Athletic Advisory Council 
Meeting Minutes 
July 13, 2020 
  
Attendees: Brian Lehtinen, Jo Weigold, Nichole Bourdelais, Ernie Friend, James Bunnell, Jane 
Gallagher, Eric Short, Kim Smith 
Absent: Jean Proctor, Robin Bursch, Kathleen Jones, MJ Davis, Tammy Yourk, Audra Sprague 
 
Meeting called to order at 6:33pm.   
 
Public Comment: Brian Lehtinen welcomes newest members and hopes we can fill the seats of 
all boosters. 
 
Review of Minutes from March 2, 2020 meeting. Minutes approved unanimously. 
 
New Business: 
 Vote for New Secretary was tabled. 
 Athletic Director update: we are still waiting for an announcement from the MIAA on 
what sports will be doing in the fall. It is unlikely that sports will switch seasons. Players 
will likely not be in masks, there may not be spectators, or hand shaking. The season 
could start at a later date. Many want students to get transition back before sports start. 
Physicals would likely need to be renewed. Registration will be coming and coaches are 
mostly in place.   
 School Committee Policy 1303 on fundraising was reviewed and discussed. The policy is 
found on the Lunenburg Schools website under the School Committee Policy section and 
was revised in 2019. 
 Priorities for the 2020-2021 was discussed shortly but emphasis was on safety as we 
transition and to see what happens in the coming months.  
 
Old Business: 
 Fundraising Requests: Football gold card fundraiser with social distancing stations in the 
community and covid safety pre-cautions was approved unanimously. Football car wash 
with covid safety pre-cautions was approved unanimously. Football yard sale with covid 
safety pre-cautions was approved unanimously. Football boosters plans to encourage all 
players to fundraise with the gold cards and split the players on the yard sale and car 
wash. A golf raffle with covid safety pre-cautions was approved unanimously. 

===PAGE 2===
 One Booster Club: It was discussed that a unified booster would be important and need to 
grow over time but at this time we are looking for volunteers, possibly outside this 
committee from booster populations who would like to take this on this initiative.  
 Community Service update: it was discussed to table the community service due to covid.  
 Student Representative: no discussion. 
 Next Meetings: Monday, August 31st, off cycle, likely a zoom meeting again. 
 
Meeting Adjourned at 7:11pm. 