===PAGE 1===
Minutes Lunenburg Schools Athletic Advisory Council  
Monday, January 6th, 2020, 6:30 pm  
Location: Lunenburg Middle/High School, Room D132 
 
Brian Lehtinen: Lunenburg School Committee, member, LHS AAC Chair Jim Bunnell: Lunenburg 
Schools Athletic Director 
 
PRESENT:   Kim Mannone,  Jo Weigold, James Bunnell,Lou Bettencourt, Brian Lehtinen, Jean 
Proctor, Robin Bursch, Jane Gallagher, Ernie Friend 
 
ABSENT: Amanda Waltz,  Brenda Pajari, Mary Jean Davis,  Rhonda Jardini-Yeates, Kim Hedlund, 
Nicole Bourdelais, Tammy York, Kim Hedlund, Kathleen Jones, Kelley Laine. 
 
1. CALL TO ORDER: 6:31 pm  
2. PUBLIC COMMENT: NONE 
3. MINUTES: Review of Minutes November 4, 2019, Approved unanimously  
 
4. New business:  
● Vote for a new secretary- none one nominated or volunteered was tabled for next 
meeting.  
● Updated Members- no comments. 
● Athletic Director update: Summary of the Winter Season briefly, coop swim with 
Leominster is not happening and has been disbursed due to Fitchburg State pool being 
closed. Lunenburg will be looking for another co-op.  Boys and Girls Track are doing 
great and underway. Picture times for the yearbook will be posted. Football Coach 
Boone stepped down and we will be posting soon.  
● Priorities for 2019-20: discussion took place on increasing community service 
opportunities for our athletes outside of NHS requirements. Jean Proctor and Robin 
Bursch will take the leads in a subcommittee to explore this. Jean Proctor inquired about 
a baseball cage and fundraising for indoor baseball equipment. She will be in contact 
with James Bunnell as this progresses and on the details of the location of the baseball 
cages.   
 
Old Business: Fundraising requests: Cross Country and Track and Field fundraiser at Chipotle on 
February 1st, 33% of proceeds go to Cross Country and Track and Field. Approved unanimously.  
Fundraising request of Indoor Track and Field to do a Snapraise fundraiser. Initially was 
approved but later denied by School Committee policy 1303 due to its “crowdfunding” nature. 
 
 
6. FUTURE TOPICS  
Community service opportunities for athletes. 
One Booster to support teams and other boosters in need. 
 
7. MEETING SCHEDULE:  Next meeting is planned for March 2nd 2020, 6:30 pm 
===PAGE 2===
 
ADJOURNMENT ● 7:30 pm 