===PAGE 1===
all vote to authorize the. Treasurer.
i, to borrow money in anticipation
cial year.
iry agents and committees for the
jil vote to choose a director in ac-
apter 128, of the General Laws, or
lote to raise and appropriate the
Week, or act anything thereon.
vote to raise and appropriate the
act. anything thereon. (Disap-
vote to raise and appropriate the
Tar Products. Corporation for
ax 1930.
fill vote to raise and appropriate
( Charles P. Dickinson for gravel
130.
fill vote. to raise and appropriate
* Matthews Motor Company, for
¿Department under Chapter 81
will vote to raise and appropriate
* the Conant Machine and Steel
or the Highway Department un-
105
.IRT. 13. To see if the town will vote to raise and appropriate
the sum of $500 for old age assistance, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Chapter +02 of the Acts of 1930, or act anything thereon.
(Approved by linance committee.)
ARI. 14. To see if the town will vote to raise and appropriate
the sum of $500 to be used with State and County appropriations
for the reconstruction of the West Groton road, running from the.
state. highway to the Shirley town line, under the, provisions of
Chapter 90, or act anything thereon. (Approved by finance com-
mittee.)
AR. 15. To see if the town will vote to raise and appropriate.
the sum of $500, to be used with State and County appropriations for -
specific maintenance of Chase road under the provisions of Chapter
90. (Approved by finance committee.)
10 ate ART. 16. To see if the town will vote to accept and forever keep:
Matter and be responsible for, the sum of $5000, the interest at four per
cent; $200 a year, to be spent on the public grounds and sidewalks:
3
within one mile of the center of the town, the said sum being a leg-i
acy to the town under the will of Luther G. Howard and to be ack.
cepted as a memorial to his father and mother, Jobn Howard and.
Mary (Caldwell) Howard. (Approved by finance committee.).
ARI. 17. To see if the town will vote to accept two oil. paint:.
ings, one of Sarah P. Howard and one of Susan T. Howard, the said
paintings.to.be.placed in the Town Hall or the -bibresyr of the town,
the paintings being a legacy to the town under the will of Luther G.
Howard, or act anything thereon.
ART. 18. To see if the town will vote to accept the sum of $100
for the perpetual care of the Ernest K. Proctor lot in the North Cem-
etery. (Approved by finance committee.)
ART. 19. To see if the town will vote to accept the sum of $100
for the perpetual care of the Arthur P. Brown lot in the Vorth Cem-
"tery. fApproved by finance committee.)
===PAGE 2===
March 2, 1931
Article 16. To see if the town will vote to accept and forever keep and be responsible
for, the sum of $5000, the interest at four per cent, $200 a year, to be spent on the
public grounds and sidewalks within one mile of the center of the town, the said sum
being a legacy to the town under the will of Luther G. Howard and to be accepted as
a memorial to his father and mother, John Howard and Mary (Caldwell) Howard.
(Approved by finance committee.)
Voted to accept and forever keep and be responsible for, the sum of $5000 as a memorial
to John and Mary (Caldwell) Howard, the interest from said sum, at four per cent, $200
a year, to be spent on the public grounds and sidewalks within one mile of the center
of the town, the sum being a legacy to town under the will of Luther G. Howard and to
be known as the "John and Mary (Caldwell) Howard" fund.