===PAGE 1===
 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OPEN MEETING LAW, G.L. c. 30A, §§18-25 
 
* * * 
This version of the law is current as of April 7, 2015. 
NOTICE: This is NOT the official version of the Massachusetts General Law (MGL). While reasonable efforts 
have been made to ensure the accuracy and currency of the data provided, do not rely on this information 
without first checking an official edition of the MGL. 
* * * 
  
Section 18:  [DEFINITIONS] 
As used in this section and sections 19 to 25, inclusive, the following words shall, unless the context 
clearly requires otherwise, have the following meanings: 
“Deliberation”, an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between 
or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 
“deliberation” shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of 
other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided that no opinion of a member is expressed. 
“Emergency”, a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding 
immediate action. 
“Executive session”, any part of a meeting of a public body closed to the public for deliberation of 
certain matters. 
“Intentional violation”, an act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of 
the open meeting law. 
“Meeting”, a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction; 
provided, however, “meeting” shall not include: 
(a) an on-site inspection of a project or program, so long as the members do not deliberate; 
(b) attendance by a quorum of a public body at a public or private gathering, including a conference or 
training program or a media, social or other event, so long as the members do not deliberate; 
(c) attendance by a quorum of a public body at a meeting of another public body that has complied with the 
notice requirements of the open meeting law, so long as the visiting members communicate only by open 
participation in the meeting on those matters under discussion by the host body and do not deliberate; 
(d) a meeting of a quasi-judicial board or commission held for the sole purpose of making a decision 
required in an adjudicatory proceeding brought before it; or 
(e) a session of a town meeting convened under section 9 of chapter 39 which would include the attendance 
by a quorum of a public body at any such session. 
===PAGE 2===
 
“Minutes”, the written report of a meeting created by a public body required by subsection (a) of section 
22 and section 5A of chapter 66. 
“Open meeting law”, sections 18 to 25, inclusive. 
“Post notice”, to display conspicuously the written announcement of a meeting either in hard copy or 
electronic format. 
“Preliminary screening”, the initial stage of screening applicants conducted by a committee or 
subcommittee of a public body solely for the purpose of providing to the public body a list of those applicants 
qualified for further consideration or interview. 
“Public body”, a multiple-member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive 
or legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed 
or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose; provided, however, that the governing board 
of a local housing, redevelopment or other similar authority shall be deemed a local public body; provided, 
further, that the governing board or body of any other authority established by the general court to serve a 
public purpose in the commonwealth or any part thereof shall be deemed a state public body; provided, 
further, that “public body” shall not include the general court or the committees or recess commissions 
thereof, bodies of the judicial branch or bodies appointed by a constitutional officer solely for the purpose of 
advising a constitutional officer and shall not include the board of bank incorporation or the policyholders 
protective board; and provided further, that a subcommittee shall include any multiple-member body created 
to advise or make recommendations to a public body. 
“Quorum”, a simple majority of the members of the public body, unless otherwise provided in a general 
or special law, executive order or other authorizing provision. 
Section 19.  [Division of Open Government; Open Meeting Law Training; Open Meeting Law 
Advisory Commission; Annual Report] 
(a) There shall be in the department of the attorney general a division of open government under the 
direction of a director of open government. The attorney general shall designate an assistant attorney 
general as the director of the open government division. The director may appoint and remove, subject to 
the approval of the attorney general, such expert, clerical and other assistants as the work of the division 
may require. The division shall perform the duties imposed upon the attorney general by the open meeting 
law, which may include participating, appearing and intervening in any administrative and judicial 
proceedings pertaining to the enforcement of the open meeting law. For the purpose of such participation, 
appearance, intervention and training authorized by this chapter the attorney general may expend such 
funds as may be appropriated therefor. 
(b) The attorney general shall create and distribute educational materials and provide training to public 
bodies in order to foster awareness and compliance with the open meeting law. Open meeting law training 
may include, but shall not be limited to, instruction in: 
===PAGE 3===
 
(1) the general background of the legal requirements for the open meeting law; 
(2) applicability of sections 18 to 25, inclusive, to governmental bodies; 
(3) the role of the attorney general in enforcing the open meeting law; and 
(4) penalties and other consequences for failure to comply with this chapter. 
(c) There shall be an open meeting law advisory commission. The commission shall consist of 5 
members, 2 of whom shall be the chairmen of the joint committee on state administration and regulatory 
oversight; 1 of whom shall be the president of the Massachusetts Municipal Association or his designee; 1 of 
whom shall be the president of the Massachusetts Newspaper Publishers Association or his designee; and 1 
of whom shall be the attorney general or his designee. 
The commission shall review issues relative to the open meeting law and shall submit to the attorney 
general recommendations for changes to the regulations, trainings, and educational initiatives relative to the 
open meeting law as it deems necessary and appropriate. 
(d) The attorney general shall, not later than January 31, file annually with the commission a report 
providing information on the enforcement of the open meeting law during the preceding calendar year. The 
report shall include, but not be limited to: 
(1) the number of open meeting law complaints received by the attorney general; 
(2) the number of hearings convened as the result of open meeting law complaints by the attorney general; 
(3) a summary of the determinations of violations made by the attorney general; 
(4) a summary of the orders issued as the result of the determination of an open meeting law violation by the 
attorney general; 
(5) an accounting of the fines obtained by the attorney general as the result of open meeting law 
enforcement actions; 
(6) the number of actions filed in superior court seeking relief from an order of the attorney general; and 
(7) any additional information relevant to the administration and enforcement of the open meeting law that 
the attorney general deems appropriate. 
Section 20.  [Meetings of a Public Body to be Open to the Public; Notice of Meeting; Remote 
Participation; Recording and Transmission of Meeting; Removal of Persons for Disruption of 
Proceedings] 
(a) Except as provided in section 21, all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public. 
(b) Except in an emergency, in addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays. In an emergency, a public body shall post notice as soon as reasonably possible prior to such 
meeting. Notice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time 
and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting. 
===PAGE 4===
 
(c) For meetings of a local public body, notice shall be filed with the municipal clerk and posted in a 
manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on the municipal building in which the clerk’s 
office is located. 
For meetings of a regional or district public body, notice shall be filed and posted in each city or town 
within the region or district in the manner prescribed for local public bodies. For meetings of a regional 
school district, the secretary of the regional school district committee shall be considered to be its clerk and 
shall file notice with the clerk of each city or town within such district and shall post the notice in the manner 
prescribed for local public bodies. For meetings of a county public body, notice shall be filed in the office of 
the county commissioners and a copy of the notice shall be publicly posted in a manner conspicuously 
visible to the public at all hours in such place or places as the county commissioners shall designate for the 
purpose. 
For meetings of a state public body, notice shall be filed with the attorney general by posting on a 
website under the procedures established for this purpose and a duplicate copy of the notice shall be filed 
with the regulations division of the state secretary‘s office. 
The attorney general may prescribe or approve alternative methods of notice where the attorney 
general determines the alternative methods will afford more effective notice to the public. 
(d) The attorney general may by regulation or letter ruling, authorize remote participation by members of 
a public body not present at the meeting location; provided, however, that the absent members and all 
persons present at the meeting location are clearly audible to each other; and provided, further, that a 
quorum of the body, including the chair, are present at the meeting location. The authorized members may 
vote and shall not be deemed absent for the purposes of section 23D of chapter 39. 
(e) A local commission on disability may by majority vote of the commissioners at a regular meeting 
permit remote participation applicable to a specific meeting or generally to all of the commission’s meetings; 
provided, however, that the commission shall comply with all other requirements of law and regulation. 
(f) After notifying the chair of the public body, any person may make a video or audio recording of an 
open session of a meeting of a public body, or may transmit the meeting through any medium, subject to 
reasonable requirements of the chair as to the number, placement and operation of equipment used so as 
not to interfere with the conduct of the meeting. At the beginning of the meeting the chair shall inform other 
attendees of any recordings. 
(g) No person shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons 
shall, at the request of the chair, be silent. No person shall disrupt the proceedings of a meeting of a public 
body. If, after clear warning from the chair, a person continues to disrupt the proceedings, the chair may 
order the person to withdraw from the meeting and if the person does not withdraw, the chair may authorize 
a constable or other officer to remove the person from the meeting. 
(h) Within 2 weeks of qualification for office, all persons serving on a public body shall certify, on a form 
prescribed by the attorney general, the receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, regulations promulgated 
under section 25 and a copy of the educational materials prepared by the attorney general explaining the 
===PAGE 5===
 
open meeting law and its application pursuant to section 19. Unless otherwise directed or approved by the 
attorney general, the appointing authority, city or town clerk or the executive director or other appropriate 
administrator of a state or regional body, or their designees, shall obtain certification from each person upon 
entering service and shall retain it subject to the applicable records retention schedule where the body 
maintains its official records. The certification shall be evidence that the member of a public body has read 
and understands the requirements of the open meeting law and the consequences of violating it. 
 Section 21.  [EXECUTIVE SESSIONS] 
(a) A public body may meet in executive session only for the following purposes: 
1. To discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional 
competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought 
against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual. The individual to be discussed in such 
executive session shall be notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed 
executive session; provided, however, that notification may be waived upon written agreement of the parties. 
A public body shall hold an open session if the individual involved requests that the session be open. If an 
executive session is held, such individual shall have the following rights: 
i. to be present at such executive session during deliberations which involve that individual; 
ii. to have counsel or a representative of his own choosing present and attending for the purpose of advising 
the individual and not for the purpose of active participation in the executive session; 
iii. to speak on his own behalf; and 
iv. to cause an independent record to be created of said executive session by audio-recording or 
transcription, at the individual’s expense. 
The rights of an individual set forth in this paragraph are in addition to the rights that he may have from 
any other source, including, but not limited to, rights under any laws or collective bargaining agreements and 
the exercise or non-exercise of the individual rights under this section shall not be construed as a waiver of 
any rights of the individual. 
2. To conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct 
collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel; 
3. To discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares; 
4. To discuss the deployment of security personnel or devices, or strategies with respect thereto; 
5. To investigate charges of criminal misconduct or to consider the filing of criminal complaints; 
6. To consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body; 
7. To comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or special law or federal grant-in-aid 
requirements; 
8. To consider or interview applicants for employment or appointment by a preliminary screening committee 
if the chair declares that an open meeting will have a detrimental effect in obtaining qualified applicants; 
===PAGE 6===
 
provided, however, that this clause shall not apply to any meeting, including meetings of a preliminary 
screening committee, to consider and interview applicants who have passed a prior preliminary screening; 
9. To meet or confer with a mediator, as defined in section 23C of chapter 233, with respect to any litigation 
or decision on any public business within its jurisdiction involving another party, group or entity, provided 
that: 
(i) any decision to participate in mediation shall be made in an open session and the parties, issues 
involved and purpose of the mediation shall be disclosed; and 
(ii) no action shall be taken by any public body with respect to those issues which are the subject of the 
mediation without deliberation and approval for such action at an open session; or 
10. To discuss trade secrets or confidential, competitively-sensitive or other proprietary information provided 
in the course of activities conducted by a governmental body as an energy supplier under a license granted 
by the department of public utilities pursuant to section 1F of chapter 164, in the course of activities 
conducted as a municipal aggregator under section 134 of said chapter 164 or in the course of activities 
conducted by a cooperative consisting of governmental entities organized pursuant to section 136 of said 
chapter 164, when such governmental body, municipal aggregator or cooperative determines that such 
disclosure will adversely affect its ability to conduct business in relation to other entities making, selling or 
distributing electric power and energy. 
(b) A public body may meet in closed session for 1 or more of the purposes enumerated in subsection 
(a) provided that: 
1. the body has first convened in an open session pursuant to section 21; 
2. a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session and the vote of each member 
is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes; 
3. before the executive session, the chair shall state the purpose for the executive session, stating all 
subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was 
called; 
4. the chair shall publicly announce whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the 
executive session; and 
5. accurate records of the executive session shall be maintained pursuant to section 23. 
Section 22.  [Meeting Minutes; Records] 
(a) A public body shall create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive 
sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made 
and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes. 
(b) No vote taken at an open session shall be by secret ballot. Any vote taken at an executive session 
shall be recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes. 
===PAGE 7===
 
(c) Minutes of all open sessions shall be created and approved in a timely manner. The minutes of an 
open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft form, shall be made available upon request by 
any person within 10 days. 
(d) Documents and other exhibits, such as photographs, recordings or maps, used by the body at an 
open or executive session shall, along with the minutes, be part of the official record of the session. 
(e) The minutes of any open session, the notes, recordings or other materials used in the preparation of 
such minutes and all documents and exhibits used at the session, shall be public records in their entirety 
and not exempt from disclosure pursuant to any of the exemptions under clause Twenty-sixth of section 7 of 
chapter 4. Notwithstanding this paragraph, the following materials shall be exempt from disclosure to the 
public as personnel information: (1) materials used in a performance evaluation of an individual bearing on 
his professional competence, provided they were not created by the members of the body for the purposes 
of the evaluation; and (2) materials used in deliberations about employment or appointment of individuals, 
including applications and supporting materials; provided, however, that any resume submitted by an 
applicant shall not be exempt. 
(f) The minutes of any executive session, the notes, recordings or other materials used in the 
preparation of such minutes and all documents and exhibits used at the session, may be withheld from 
disclosure to the public in their entirety under subclause (a) of clause Twenty-sixth of section 7 of chapter 4, 
as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer; provided, 
however, that the executive session was held in compliance with section 21. 
When the purpose for which a valid executive session was held has been served, the minutes, 
preparatory materials and documents and exhibits of the session shall be disclosed unless the attorney-
client privilege or 1 or more of the exemptions under said clause Twenty-sixth of said section 7 of said 
chapter 4 apply to withhold these records, or any portion thereof, from disclosure. 
For purposes of this subsection, if an executive session is held pursuant to clause (2) or (3) of 
subsections (a) of section 21, then the minutes, preparatory materials and documents and exhibits used at 
the session may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety, unless and until such time as a 
litigating, negotiating or bargaining position is no longer jeopardized by such disclosure, at which time they 
shall be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or 1 or more of the exemptions under said clause 
Twenty-sixth of said section 7 of said chapter 4 apply to withhold these records, or any portion thereof, from 
disclosure. 
(g)(1) The public body, or its chair or designee, shall, at reasonable intervals, review the minutes of 
executive sessions to determine if the provisions of this subsection warrant continued non-disclosure. Such 
determination shall be announced at the body’s next meeting and such announcement shall be included in 
the minutes of that meeting. 
(2) Upon request by any person to inspect or copy the minutes of an executive session or any portion 
thereof, the body shall respond to the request within 10 days following receipt and shall release any such 
minutes not covered by an exemption under subsection (f); provided, however, that if the body has not 
===PAGE 8===
 
performed a review pursuant to paragraph (1), the public body shall perform the review and release the non-
exempt minutes, or any portion thereof, not later than the body’s next meeting or 30 days, whichever first 
occurs. A public body shall not assess a fee for the time spent in its review. 
 Section 23.  [Enforcement of Open Meeting Law; Complaints; Hearings; Civil Actions] 
(a) Subject to appropriation, the attorney general shall interpret and enforce the open meeting law. 
(b) At least 30 days prior to the filing of a complaint with the attorney general, the complainant shall file 
a written complaint with the public body, setting forth the circumstances which constitute the alleged 
violation and giving the body an opportunity to remedy the alleged violation; provided, however, that such 
complaint shall be filed within 30 days of the date of the alleged violation. The public body shall, within 14 
business days of receipt of a complaint, send a copy of the complaint to the attorney general and notify the 
attorney general of any remedial action taken. Any remedial action taken by the public body in response to a 
complaint under this subsection shall not be admissible as evidence against the public body that a violation 
occurred in any later administrative or judicial proceeding relating to such alleged violation. The attorney 
general may authorize an extension of time to the public body for the purpose of taking remedial action upon 
the written request of the public body and a showing of good cause to grant the extension. 
(c) Upon the receipt of a complaint by any person, the attorney general shall determine, in a timely 
manner, whether there has been a violation of the open meeting law. The attorney general may, and before 
imposing any civil penalty on a public body shall, hold a hearing on any such complaint. Following a 
determination that a violation has occurred, the attorney general shall determine whether the public body, 1 
or more of the members, or both, are responsible and whether the violation was intentional or unintentional. 
Upon the finding of a violation, the attorney general may issue an order to: 
(1) compel immediate and future compliance with the open meeting law; 
(2) compel attendance at a training session authorized by the attorney general; 
(3) nullify in whole or in part any action taken at the meeting; 
(4) impose a civil penalty upon the public body of not more than $1,000 for each intentional violation; 
(5) reinstate an employee without loss of compensation, seniority, tenure or other benefits; 
(6) compel that minutes, records or other materials be made public; or 
(7) prescribe other appropriate action. 
(d) A public body or any member of a body aggrieved by any order issued pursuant to this section may, 
notwithstanding any general or special law to the contrary, obtain judicial review of the order only through an 
action in superior court seeking relief in the nature of certiorari; provided, however, that notwithstanding 
section 4 of chapter 249, any such action shall be commenced in superior court within 21 days of receipt of 
the order. Any order issued under this section shall be stayed pending judicial review; provided, however, 
that if the order nullifies an action of the public body, the body shall not implement such action pending 
judicial review. 
(e) If any public body or member thereof shall fail to comply with the requirements set forth in any order 
issued by the attorney general, or shall fail to pay any civil penalty imposed within 21 days of the date of 
===PAGE 9===
 
issuance of such order or within 30 days following the decision of the superior court if judicial review of such 
order has been timely sought, the attorney general may file an action to compel compliance. Such action 
shall be filed in Suffolk superior court with respect to state public bodies and, with respect to all other public 
bodies, in the superior court in any county in which the public body acts or meets. If such body or member 
has not timely sought judicial review of the order, such order shall not be open to review in an action to 
compel compliance. 
(f) As an alternative to the procedure in subsection (b), the attorney general or 3 or more registered 
voters may initiate a civil action to enforce the open meeting law. 
Any action under this subsection shall be filed in Suffolk superior court with respect to state public 
bodies and, with respect to all other public bodies, in the superior court in any county in which the public 
body acts or meets. 
In any action filed pursuant to this subsection, in addition to all other remedies available to the superior 
court, in law or in equity, the court shall have all of the remedies set forth in subsection (c). 
In any action filed under this subsection, the order of notice on the complaint shall be returnable not 
later than 10 days after the filing and the complaint shall be heard and determined on the return day or on 
such day as the court shall fix, having regard to the speediest possible determination of the cause consistent 
with the rights of the parties; provided, however, that orders may be issued at any time on or after the filing 
of the complaint without notice when such order is necessary to fulfill the purposes of the open meeting law. 
In the hearing of any action under this subsection, the burden shall be on the respondent to show by a 
preponderance of the evidence that the action complained of in such complaint was in accordance with and 
authorized by the open meeting law; provided, however, that no civil penalty may be imposed on an 
individual absent proof that the action complained of violated the open meeting law. 
(g) It shall be a defense to the imposition of a penalty that the public body, after full disclosure, acted in 
good faith compliance with the advice of the public body’s legal counsel. 
(h) Payment of civil penalties under this section paid to or received by the attorney general shall be paid 
into the general fund of the commonwealth. 
Section 24.  [Investigation by Attorney General of Violations of Open Meeting Law] 
(a) Whenever the attorney general has reasonable cause to believe that a person, including any public 
body and any other state, regional, county, municipal or other governmental official or entity, has violated the 
open meeting law, the attorney general may conduct an investigation to ascertain whether in fact such 
person has violated the open meeting law. Upon notification of an investigation, any person, public body or 
any other state, regional, county, municipal or other governmental official or entity who is the subject of an 
investigation, shall make all information necessary to conduct such investigation available to the attorney 
general. In the event that the person, public body or any other state, regional, county, municipal or other 
governmental official or entity being investigated does not voluntarily provide relevant information to the 
attorney general within 30 days of receiving notice of the investigation, the attorney general may: (1) take 
testimony under oath concerning such alleged violation of the open meeting law; (2) examine or cause to be 
===PAGE 10===
 
examined any documentary material of whatever nature relevant to such alleged violation of the open 
meeting law; and (3) require attendance during such examination of documentary material of any person 
having knowledge of the documentary material and take testimony under oath or acknowledgment in respect 
of any such documentary material. Such testimony and examination shall take place in the county where 
such person resides or has a place of business or, if the parties consent or such person is a nonresident or 
has no place of business within the commonwealth, in Suffolk county. 
(b) Notice of the time, place and cause of such taking of testimony, examination or attendance shall be given 
by the attorney general at least 10 days prior to the date of such taking of testimony or examination. 
(c) Service of any such notice may be made by: (1) delivering a duly-executed copy to the person to be 
served or to a partner or to any officer or agent authorized by appointment or by law to receive service of 
process on behalf of such person; (2) delivering a duly-executed copy to the principal place of business in 
the commonwealth of the person to be served; or (3) mailing by registered or certified mail a duly-executed 
copy addressed to the person to be served at the principal place of business in the commonwealth or, if said 
person has no place of business in the commonwealth, to his principal office or place of business. 
(d) Each such notice shall: (1) state the time and place for the taking of testimony or the examination and the 
name and address of each person to be examined, if known and, if the name is not known, a general 
description sufficient to identify him or the particular class or group to which he belongs; (2) state the statute 
and section thereof, the alleged violation of which is under investigation and the general subject matter of 
the investigation; (3) describe the class or classes of documentary material to be produced thereunder with 
reasonable specificity, so as fairly to indicate the material demanded; (4) prescribe a return date within 
which the documentary material is to be produced; and (5) identify the members of the attorney general’s 
staff to whom such documentary material is to be made available for inspection and copying. 
(e) No such notice shall contain any requirement which would be unreasonable or improper if contained in a 
subpoena duces tecum issued by a court of the commonwealth or require the disclosure of any 
documentary material which would be privileged, or which for any other reason would not be required by a 
subpoena duces tecum issued by a court of the commonwealth. 
(f) Any documentary material or other information produced by any person pursuant to this section shall not, 
unless otherwise ordered by a court of the commonwealth for good cause shown, be disclosed to any 
person other than the authorized agent or representative of the attorney general, unless with the consent of 
the person producing the same; provided, however, that such material or information may be disclosed by 
the attorney general in court pleadings or other papers filed in court. 
(g) At any time prior to the date specified in the notice, or within 21 days after the notice has been served, 
whichever period is shorter, the court may, upon motion for good cause shown, extend such reporting date 
or modify or set aside such demand or grant a protective order in accordance with the standards set forth in 
Rule 26(c) of the Massachusetts Rules of Civil Procedure. The motion may be filed in the superior court of 
the county in which the person served resides or has his usual place of business or in Suffolk county. This 
section shall not be applicable to any criminal proceeding nor shall information obtained under the authority 
of this section be admissible in evidence in any criminal prosecution for substantially identical transactions.  
===PAGE 11===
 
Section 25.  [REGULATIONS, LETTER RULINGS, ADVISORY OPINIONS] 
(a) The attorney general shall have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations to carry out 
enforcement of the open meeting law. 
(b) The attorney general shall have the authority to interpret the open meeting law and to issue written 
letter rulings or advisory opinions according to rules established under this section. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  