===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF 
MASSACI-IUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
March 1, 2012 
OML 2012-16 
Kevin F. Bresnahan 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
Crown Colony Plaza 
300 Crown Colony Drive 
Suite 410 
Quincy, MA 02269 
Dear Attorney Bresnahan: 
Our office has reviewed a complaint filed by John Henderson, dated June 13, 
2011, alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by the 
Dennis-Yarmouth Regional School Committee (the "Committee"). Specifically, the 
complaint alleges that Committee held an "[u]nposted, undocumented (no agenda, no 
minutes) public meeting deliberation conducted by 4 of 7 members (a quorum) of the 
Dennis-Yarmouth Regional School Committee relative to the initial creation of [a] three 
member Finance subcommittee." The complaint goes on to state that "[t]hese acts were 
intentionally conducted in an unlawful manner so as to exclude the public and the full 
committee members from input as to the formation and structure of such sub-committee." 
The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on April 14, 2011. The 
Committee responded to the complaint by letter dated May 5, 2011. 
We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In making 
our determination, we reviewed the April 14, 2011 complaint, the Committee's May 5, 
2011 response, and the June 13, 2011 complaint filed with our office. We also reviewed 
the Committee's notices for its December 6, 2010, March 7, 2011, and March 28, 2011 
meetings, and the Committee's bylaws. Finally, on August 8, 2011, we interviewed 
Committee Chair James Dykeman by telephone. 
FACTS 
The Boards of Selectmen in the towns of Dennis and Yarmouth sent a joint letter 
===PAGE 2===
to the Committee on January 5, 2011, encouraging and supporting the creation of a 
Finance Subcommittee of the Dennis-Yarmouth Regional School Committee (the 
"Finance Subcommittee"). The Boards sought a committee "whose role is to review and 
advise the School Committee and the Boards of Selectmen on the [Committee's] budget." 
The Committee first considered the creation of the Finance Subcommittee at its 
December 6, 2010 meeting, and continued the discussion during the Committee's March 
7, 2011 meeting, after receiving the Boards' January 5, 2011 letter. However, the 
Committee took no action at that time. 
According to Committee Chair James Dykeman, he decided to form the Finance 
Subcommittee following the Committee's March 7, 2011 meeting. The School District's 
bylaws state that the "Chair or majority vote of [the] full committee" may establish a 
subcommittee. After Chair Dykeman decided to form the Finance Subcommittee, he 
informed the Superintendent of the School District. He then called three Committee 
members individually and asked them to serve on the Finance Subcommittee. In addition 
to the Committee members he asked to join, he sent a letter on March 10, 2011 to the 
chairs of the two towns' Boards of Selectmen and asked each chair to submit one of their 
members to join the Finance Subcommittee. The Finance Subcommittee met for the first 
time on March 28, 2011. 
Mr. Dykeman states that he did not speak with any Committee members prior to 
forming the Finance Subcommittee. The Committee confirmed in its May 5, 2011 
response that the Chair did not have any conversations between and among a quorum of 
the Committee except to invite the three members to participate in the subcommittee he 
was forming. Chairman Dykeman also states that his individual conversations with the 
three Committee members he invited to join the Finance Subcommittee were limited to 
asking them to serve. 
There are seven members of the Committee, including the complainant. 
DISCUSSION 
The complaint filed with our office alleges that the Finance Subcommittee was 
formed in "an unlawful and clandestine manner" and that a quorum of the Committee 
"knowingly and willfully engaged in deliberation to form a Finance Subcommittee 
...without the proper notice (to the other three DYRSC members nor the public), agenda 
or minutes being created." 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly 
noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)—(b), 21. A public body may only deliberate during a posted 
meeting. "Deliberation" is defined, in relevant part, as "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public 
body on any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. at § 18. 
Here, Committee Chair Dykeman made a unilateral decision to create a Finance 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Subcommittee, as he is empowered to do by the School District's bylaws. We do not find 
evidence that he spoke with a quorum of the Committee members about this decision 
prior to making it. Once he made the decision, he individually contacted three other 
Committee members to ask them to join the Finance Subcommittee. Chair Dykeman's 
communications with the three Committee members was not a deliberation because he 
was individually empowered by the Committee's bylaws to create a subcommittee. His 
outreach was part of his responsibility as chair to appoint members. Had he contacted the 
Committee members to poll their support for an upcoming vote or discuss business 
before the Committee, that act would have constituted deliberation. 
Although we note that, in the interest of transparency, Chair Dykeman could have 
made the requests to join the Finance Subcommittee and subsequent appointments during 
an open and properly noticed meeting of the Committee, he did not violate the law by 
making the appointments outside of a meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Dennis-Yarmouth Regional School Committee did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law while establishing the Finance Subcommittee. We now consider 
this complaint resolved and this matter closed. Please contact me if you have any 
questions or believe any of the facts presented to be inaccurate. 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
cc: John Henderson 
3 