===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
February 14, 2018 
OML 2018-17 
Elizabeth Tolsen. Chair 
Holbrook School Committee 
245 South Franklin Street 
Holbrook, MA 02343 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Ms. Tolsen: 
This office received two complaints from Sheila Sterling on June 19, alleging that the 
Holbrook School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaints were originally filed with the Committee on May 11, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Committee, by separate letters dated June 5. The complaints allege 
that the Committee discussed topics that were not listed on the meeting notice during its April 13 
meeting.2 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Committee's responses to the 
complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed 
the original and revised notices of, and open session minutes from, the Committee's April 13 
meeting; as well as a video recording of that meeting.3 Finally, we spoke with the complainant 
via email on September 21. 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 We reviewed all of the material provided by Ms. Sterling. The Division of Open Government is charged 
specifically with reviewing complaints to determine compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, 
thus we decline to review, and offer no opinion on, any potential payroll issues or HIPAA violations raised in the 
complaints. 
3 The video recording is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bm7jha6S8IE. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The complainant was a school nurse in Holbrook, who 
submitted her resignation on April 11. Dr. Patricia Lally, Superintendent of Schools, did not 
become aware of the resignation until April 13. 
On April 7, the Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on Thursday, April 13 
at 7:00 P.M. The notice listed eight topics, one of which was "Reports." One specific topic 
listed under Reports was "Superintendent Report" and included the announcement of two 
employee retirements, the Principal and a Special Education teacher at Holbrook Junior-Senior 
High School. On April 11, the Committee posted a revised notice which included one additional 
retirement announcement, a Kindergarten teacher at John F. Kennedy Elementary School, under 
the topic "Superintendent Report." 
The April 13 meeting was held as planned. During the topic "Superintendent Report," 
Dr. Lally announced the resignation of the complainant, and then announced the three posted 
teacher retirements. Prior to the conclusion of the meeting, the Committee discussed a Do Not 
Resuscitate ("DNR") Policy; this topic was not listed on the notice. Committee Chair Elizabeth 
Tolsen explained that this was a policy requested by the nurses. After some discussion, the 
Committee unanimously approved the policy. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting "at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays" and that every 
notice include "the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b). Public bodies 
must list topics for discussion with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to 
include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35; OML 
2012-71; OML 2011-44.4 
The complainant alleges that the Committee discussed two topics, her resignation and the 
DNR policy, during its April 13 meeting that were not listed on the meeting notice. We agree 
that the two topics were not listed on either the original or revised notices. However, we do not 
find a violation of the Open Meeting Law because a public body may discuss a topic not listed 
on a meeting notice if the topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the 
meeting. See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87. Here, the Superintendent did not become aware of 
the complainant's resignation until April 13, the day of the meeting. Moreover, Chair Tolsen 
was advised of the DNR policy just prior to the April 13 meeting. Because the Committee was 
not aware of the complainant's resignation or the DNR policy until the day of the meeting, the 
chair could not have reasonably anticipated its discussion 48 hours prior to the meeting. We 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
further find that the Committee did not actually discuss the complainant's resignation; Dr. Lally 
simply notified the Committee of the resignation. When a public body does not actually 
deliberate on a noticed topic, the public body cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with respect 
to that topic. See OML 2015-63; OML 2014-81. Finally, while a public body may consider a 
topic at a meeting that was not listed in the notice if it was not reasonably anticipated at least 48 
hours before the meeting, we strongly encourage public bodies to postpone discussion of topics 
that were not listed in the meeting notice until the topic may be included in a meeting notice, 
unless the circumstances demand immediate action by the public body. See OML 2011-23; 
OML 2013-197. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, _ 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Sheila Sterling 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 