===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 13, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 100 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Brian W. Riley, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
briley@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
 
This office received a complaint from Leeann Lamsa on June 29, 2023, alleging that the 
Westminster Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 30, and you responded on behalf of 
the Board by letter dated June 6.
1  The complaint alleges that the notice for the Board’s May 1 
meeting included a topic which was insufficiently specific, and that the Board discussed and took 
action on the topic. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged.  
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s reply and request for further review.  We also reviewed the 
notice and minutes for the Board’s May 1 meeting and viewed a video of the meeting.
2   
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  The Town of Westminster held its annual town election on 
April 25.  The town election included two ballot questions, which were listed on the ballot as 
follows: 
 
THIS QUESTION IS NON-BINDING 
Question 1: Should the Town of Westminster retain ownership of the Old Town 
Hall property at 3 Bacon Street for repurposing, up to and including demolition, 
utilizing available State, Federal or other grant funds? 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2023. 
2 A video of the Board’s May 1 meeting is available online at 
http://cablecast.awcm.org/CablecastPublicSite/show/4285?site=9.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
THIS QUESTION IS NON-BINDING 
Question 2: Should the Town of Westminster sell the Old Town Hall property at 3 
Bacon Street for repurposing with a historic preservation restriction? 
 
The B
oard posted notice for a meeting to be held on May 1 at 5:00 P.M.  Under the 
heading “New Business,” the notice included the topic “Annual Town Election – Ballot 
Questions Results” and beneath that, “Authorize ARPA Expenditure.”  The meeting was held as 
scheduled.  During the meeting, the Board discussed that both ballot questions had passed and 
that there had been confusion among voters regarding the impact of the two questions; in 
particular, voters may not have understood that the two questions were alternatives to each other.  
The Board discussed hiring an engineering firm to conduct a demolition assessment for the Old 
Town Hall building.  The Board voted “to authorize the town administrator to move forward 
with the bidding and contracting for the demolition of the building, the Old Town Hall.” 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
incl
uding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be 
printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time, and place of 
the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The list of topics shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally 
consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read 
the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-
35.3  See OML 2019-134. 
 
Though the Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to list each and every 
deta
il about a topic in order to comply with the law’s specificity requirement, it requires public 
bodies to identify the discussion topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public 
of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); 
OML 2020-156; OML 2015-73; OML 2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38.  We have 
previously stated that the Open Meeting Law requires that a meeting notice list topics with 
sufficient specificity so that the public can make an informed decision whether to attend the 
meeting in order to observe the discussion regarding a topic of interest. See OML 2019-95; OML 
2018-22; OML 2015-74. 
 
 The complaint alleges that the notice topic “Annual Town Election – Ballot Questions 
Results” was insufficiently specific to reasonably advise the public that the Board would discuss 
the potential demolition of the Old Town Hall.  We agree.  On numerous occasions we have 
explained and illustrated that a notice topic must include sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed.  See, e.g., OML 2023-24 (notice topic “A 
favorable Ordinance Committee report: Chapter 7 Ordinance Revisions” was insufficient to 
reasonably inform the public that the public body would discuss salary increases for city 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-m eeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
councilors and other city officials); OML 2022-174 (notice topic “2022-2023 School Year 
Calendar” was insufficient to reasonably inform the public that school committee would discuss 
changing Columbus Day to Indigenous Peoples’ Day on the school calendar); OML 2019-89 
(notice topics “Host Agreement,” “Land Development,” and “Non-Opposition letter” “did not 
sufficiently alert members of the public that the board would be discussing a marijuana 
establishment - a topic that, no doubt, was the subject of immense public interest”); OML 2019-
117 (notice topics “Discussion of the AIDS Support Group’s plans in Falmouth” and “Seeing 
[sic] formal letter of support from the Board of Health” did not sufficiently alert members of the 
public that the board would discuss and approve a syringe access program). 
 
Here, the notice for the Board’s May 1 meeting specified that the Board would discuss 
ball
ot question results but did not identify the nature of the matter to be discussed.  For example, 
the notice did not specify whether the Board would perform a ministerial task like certifying the 
ballot question results, or would discuss how to proceed in light of the results, or something else.  
Moreover, the notice itself in no way identified the subject matter of the ballot questions.  The 
meeting notice itself must contain the level of specificity that the Open Meeting Law requires.  
See OML 2022-199 (“the meeting notice itself must contain all information that the Open 
Meeting Law requires; posting attachments does not cure an otherwise defective notice.”); OML 
2021-138; OML 2019-22.   We find that the topic “Annual Town Election – Ballot Questions 
Results ... Authorize ARPA Expenditure” on the notice for the Board’s May 1 meeting was 
insufficiently specific, and the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
We ackn
owledge the Board’s assertion that no final decision has been made regarding the 
demolition of the Old Town Hall and that any potential demolition would require deliberation at 
many future Board meetings, and that its vote on May 1 was intended merely to enable the town 
administrator to begin gathering information.  However, the motion “to authorize the town 
administrator to move forward with the bidding and contracting for the demolition” of the Old 
Town Hall was not so limited.   
 
Finally, we decline to review additional assertions in the complaint regarding the 
confus
ing nature of the ballot questions as well as the Board’s alleged failure to discuss 
alternatives to demolition or to discuss ballot question 2 altogether.  The Division of Open 
Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  The Open Meeting 
Law does not require a public body to discuss any matter, nor to discuss a matter in any 
particular depth.  See OML 2020-75; OML 2018-134; OML 2017-53.  The Open Meeting also 
does not prohibit a public body from declining to discuss a topic that was included on the 
meeting notice.  See OML 2022-109, OML 2022-62, OML 2015-174, OML 2012-23 (OML does 
not prohibit a public body from removing, postponing, or declining to discuss a topic listed on a 
meeting notice).  Therefore, these allegations, even if true, would not constitute violations of the 
Open Meeting Law and we decline to review them. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board  violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing and taking action on a topic that was not included with sufficient specificity on the 
notice for the Board’s May 1 meeting.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 To remedy the lack of notice to the public, we order the Board , within  30 days of 
issuance of this determination, to post adequate notice and again discuss and vote to authorize 
moving forward with bidding and contracting for the demolition of the Old Town Hall.  If the 
Board declines or fails to pass such a motion within 30 days, the approval that was voted at its 
May 1 meeting shall be nullified, pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c)(3). 
 
We also o
rder the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law 
and caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Leeann Lamsa (via e-mail: ) 
 Westminster Select Board (via e-mail: hbillings@westminster-ma.gov) 
 Westminster Town Clerk (via e-mail: esheehan@westminster-ma.gov) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.
 
 
