===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
February 13, 2012 
OML 2012 - 10 
Bruce P. Gilmore, Esq. 
Town Counsel 
Town of Chatham 
99 Willow St. 
Yarmouthport, MA 024675 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Gilmore: 
This office received 16 complaints from Gregory R. Smith, Esq., dated March 15, 2011, 
alleging that the Town of Chatham Board of Selectmen ("the Board") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints allege that 1) the Board failed to post proper notice 
for 13 meetings held between August and November, 2010; 2) that it improperly entered into 
executive session during those same meetings; 3) that it failed to give proper notice to an 
individual who was the subject of discussion at those executive session meetings; and 4) that 
Board members improperly deliberated prior to the publication of a December 16, 2010 
statement in the Cape Cod Chronicle. The complaints were originally filed with the Board on 
December 23, 2010, and the Board responded by letter dated January 7, 2011. Selectman 
Timothy Roper responded separately, by letter dated April 1, 2011. 
Although the complaints were filed more than 30 days after some of the alleged 
violations, the complainant was not able to learn about these alleged violations until the 
executive session minutes were released on or around November 23, 2010. We therefore 
consider all of the complaints to be timely filed. 
In evaluating this matter, we reviewed the complaints dated December 23, 2010 and 
March 15, 2011; the Board's January 7, 2011 response; the April 1, 2011 response from 
Selectman Roper; the Board's May 5, 2011 response to a request for documents and information 
sent by our office, enclosing certain documents, including the open and executive session 
minutes from 15 meetings between August and November, 2010; a letter dated May 6, 2011 to 
our office from the complainant; a letter dated May 8, 2011 to our office from Dr. Florence 
Seldin, Vice-Chair of the Board; video recordings of the Board's open session meetings on 
August 5 and 10, September 7, 14, and 21, and November 2, 9, 19, and 23, 20101; a letter dated 
These recordings are available on the Town's website at 
http://view.liveindexer.com/viewcalendar.aspx?siteSKU=CXPAtcfUIBTkfv%2fkTud7uQ%3d%3d  
1 
===PAGE 2===
November 7, 2011 to our office from the complainant; a November 18, 2011 email from Town 
Counsel to our office, responding to a request for documents and information and attaching 
email communications related to the December 2010 statement published in the Cape Cod 
Chronicle; and the Addendum to Employment Agreement signed by the Board and Town 
Manager William Hinchey on November 9, 2010. Finally, we conducted telephone interviews 
on December 22, 2011 with Board members David Whitcomb, Sean Summers, and Leonard 
Sussman. We appreciate the patience of the parties as we considered these complaints. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to state in its meeting notices, and at the time the Board voted to enter into the executive sessions 
in question, the name of the person whose contract it planned to discuss. Furthermore, we find 
that the Board failed to consistently follow procedures for entering into executive session during 
the time period at issue. We do not find that the Board had an obligation to provide written 
notice to the person whose contract was discussed during the executive session meetings, 
however, nor do we find that a quorum of the Board engaged in improper deliberation when 
formulating the statement published in the Cape Cod Chronicle on December 16, 2010. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the relevant facts are as follows. 
Chatham's Town Manager, William Hinchey, had a five year contract that was due to expire on 
June 30, 2011. On or around July 16, 2010, each member of the five-member Board received a 
copy of a letter from the Town Manager marked "CONFIDENTIAL." The letter, dated July 14, 
2010, noted that during the previous year, the Town Manager received a performance evaluation 
that "clearly demonstrated an increased level of dissatisfaction with my performance as Town 
Manager," and that the previous Chairman had indicated to him there was "significant 
reluctance" on the part of the Board to extend his contract. Therefore, rather than proposing a 
five year contract extension, the Town Manager decided to propose a single year extension "with 
minor modifications that would actually minimize the Town's existing financial obligation." 
The proposal stated that if the Board chose simply not to extend the existing contract, then three 
financial provisions set in. These provisions required the Town to pay a 180 day severance 
amount, as well as end pay for unused, accumulated sick and vacation time. The letter made 
several proposals that the Town Manager believed would be mutually beneficial, and closed by 
stating, "If the Board decides to reject this alternative proposal, then I will formally request your 
consideration of a five year extension of my existing contract." 
The Executive Session Meetings 
A series of meetings by the Board followed. Unless otherwise noted, all meeting notices 
were posted on the Town Hall meeting board in the foyer of the Chatham Town Offices 
Building. All meeting agendas were created by then Board Chairman Leonard Sussman after 
consultation with the Town Manager. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
1. August 5, 2010; 
Notice for an August 5, 2010 meeting of the Board was posted on July 26, 2010. On or 
around August 3, 2010 an agenda was posted for the meeting that listed, under "Other Business," 
"Executive Session — Contract Negotiations." 
At the conclusion of the open session meeting on August 5, 2010, the Chairman asked for 
a motion to adjourn to "executive session for the purpose of contract negotiations with non-union 
personnel." Selectman Whitcomb made the motion, and noted that no public meeting would 
follow. A roll call vote was taken and passed unanimously. 
Although he was present during the open session portion of the meeting, the Town 
Manager did not attend the executive session that followed. During the executive session, the 
merits of the Town Manager's confidential proposal were discussed, and it was decided that no 
action should be taken until Selectman Summers was able to review the proposal and offer his 
input. 
2. August 10, 2010; 
Notice for an August 10, 2010 meeting of the Board was posted on May 19 and July 19, 
2010. On or around August 5, 2010, an agenda was posted for the meeting that listed, under 
"Other Business," "Executive Session — Contract Negotiations." 
At the conclusion of the open session meeting on August 10, 2010, the Chairman noted 
that he would entertain a motion to adjourn "to an Executive Session for the purpose of contract 
negotiations with non-union personnel with no public meeting to follow." The motion was made 
and seconded, and passed by unanimous voice vote. No roll call vote was taken. 
Although he was present during the open session portion of the meeting, the Town 
Manager did not attend the executive session that followed. During the executive session, the 
merits of the Town Manager's confidential proposal were discussed further, and it was decided 
that the Chairman should request that Town Counsel participate in their next executive session to 
provide guidance and advice regarding the Town Manager's proposal. 
3. August 16, 2010; 
Notice for an August 16, 2010 meeting of the Board was posted on August 3, 2010. On 
or around August 13, 2010 an agenda was posted for the meeting that listed only two items for 
discussion, the second of which was "Executive Session — Contract Negotiations." 
At the conclusion of the open session meeting, a motion was made by Vice-Chair Seldin 
to "go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing contract negotiations with no public 
meeting to follow." A roll call vote followed and passed unanimously. 
Although he was present during the open session portion of the meeting, the Town 
Manager did not attend the executive session that followed. Town Counsel was present for this 
3 
===PAGE 4===
portion of the meeting. The Board discussed Town Counsel's role in any contract negotiations 
with the Town Manager, and received legal advice relating to the Town Manager's existing 
contract. The minutes reflect that, "After some further discussion, it was agreed by all members 
present that the next Executive Session should include an appearance by Mr. Hinchey, at which 
his performance as Town Manager would be reviewed and discussed." In addition, the 
Chairman raised concerns that confidentiality regarding the Town Manager's proposal had been 
breached. 
4. August 26, 2010; 
Notice for an August 26, 2010 meeting of the Board was posted on August 18, 2010. 
Under "Purpose" the notice read "Executive Session — Contract Negotiations." 
No open session meeting preceded this executive session. The Town Manager was 
present, and aspects of his job performance, as well as the reasons for and relative merits of his 
contract proposal, were discussed. It was decided that elements of the proposal needed to be 
discussed and reviewed by an independent attorney before any decisions were made. 
5. August 31, 2010; 
Notice for an August 31, 2010 meeting of the Board was posted on August 25, 2010. On 
or around August 30, 2010 an agenda was posted for the meeting that listed, under "Other 
Business," "Executive Session — Contract Negotiations." 
At the conclusion of the open session meeting, the Chairman made a motion to adjourn to 
"executive session for the purpose of contract negotiations with non-union personnel with no 
public meeting to follow." A roll call vote was taken and passed unanimously. 
Although he was present during the open session portion of the meeting, the Town 
Manager did not attend the executive session that followed. Aspects of the Town Manager's job 
performance were discussed, as well as the relative merits of his contract proposal. It was 
decided that, prior to making any decision on the Town Manager's proposal, the Board should 
seek the advice of Thomas Groux regarding the steps and time required to conduct a search for a 
Town Manager. 
6. September 7, 2010; 
Notice for a September 7, 2010 meeting of the Board was posted on August 16, 2010. 
On or around September 2, 2010 an agenda was posted for the meeting that listed, under "Other 
Business," "Executive Session — Non-Union Contract Negotiations." 
At the conclusion of the open session meeting, a motion was made by Selectman Roper 
to "adjourn to Executive Session for the purposes of non-union contract employee discussions 
with no public meeting to follow." A roll call vote followed and passed unanimously. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
Although he was present during the open session portion of the meeting, the Town 
Manager did not attend the executive session that followed. Thomas Groux, who had served as 
Chatham's first Town Manager and now acts as a paid consultant to towns seeking to retain the 
services of a new town manager, was present for part of the session and answered "questions 
pertaining to the standard procedures required of a BOS in conducting a search for a Town 
Manager." Mr. Groux also offered his opinion as to the job performance of the current Town 
Manager as compared with the pool of Town Manager candidates at the time. The Board also 
discussed the retention of outside counsel to advise them on matters relating to the Town 
Manager's contract, and discussed legal advice received from that attorney. 
The Board then discussed voting on the Town Manager's proposal, and decided to 
consult with Town Counsel about whether they had to take the vote in regular session before 
taking any further action. It was agreed that the Chairman would indicate to the Town Manager 
what the Board's thoughts were on the proposal, but stress that the matter had not been decided. 
7. September 14, 2010; 
Notice for a September 14, 2010 meeting of the Board was posted on August 16, 2010. 
On or around September 9, 2010 an agenda was posted for the meeting that listed, under 
"Executive Session," an item reading "Non-union Contract Negotiations." 
At the conclusion of the open session meeting, the Chairman asked for a "motion to 
adjourn to executive session for the purpose of non-union contract negotiations." The motion 
was made by Selectman Roper, and a roll call vote followed and passed unanithously. The 
Chairman then noted they were adjourned with no public meeting to follow. 
Although he was present during the open session portion of the meeting, the Town 
Manager did not attend the executive session that followed. During the executive session, the 
Chairman noted that he had been unable to speak with Town Counsel about whether any vote 
must be taken in public, but had conveyed to the Town Manager his sense of the Board's 
reaction to his proposal, and that the Town Manager had "grave concerns with the process 
deployed by the BOS in addressing his proposal." The Board then discussed the advisability of 
some form of counter-offer and what that offer might look like. It was decided that the 
Chairman would discuss this idea with the Town Manager. 
8. September 21, 2010; 
Notice for a September 21, 2010 meeting of the Board was posted on August 16, 2010. 
On or around September 16, 2010 an agenda was posted for the meeting that listed, under "Other 
Business" an item reading "Executive Session — Non-Union Contract Negotiations."2  
At the conclusion of the open session meeting, the video recording shows that the 
Chairman stated he would entertain a motion "to go into executive session with no public 
meeting to follow." Although the minutes state that a motion was made "to go into Executive 
2  The format of the agenda left some ambiguity as to whether the executive session would be held by the Board 
members in their roles as Selectmen or as Water and Sewer Commissioners. 
5 
===PAGE 6===
Session for the purposes of non-union contract negotiations" the video shows that no such 
purpose was stated by the Chairman or the motioning member. A roll call vote was taken and 
passed unanimously. 
Although he was present during the open session portion of the meeting, the Town 
Manager did not attend the executive session that followed. During the executive session, the 
Chairman reported that he explained to the Town Manager that the Board was not willing to 
accept his proposal, but was willing to listen to any alternative proposal he may wish to offer. 
The Chairman further noted that the Town Manager declined to adjust his proposal and said that 
any counteroffer should come from the Board. When the Chairman reported that the Town 
Manager told him he "felt damaged" by the manner in which the Board had proceeded on his 
proposal and was seeking private counsel, the minutes note that "[c]onsiderable overlapping 
discussion erupted among the Board members in response." The Board then discussed what a 
counteroffer would look like, and held a conference call with outside counsel to discuss 
associated legal issues. A vote was taken to present an offer to the Town Manager, which passed 
with four members voting in favor and one, Selectman Roper, voting against. 
9. September 24, 20103; 
Notice for a September 24, 2010 meeting of the Board was posted on September 22, 
2010. Under "Purpose" the notice read "Executive Session — Non-Union Contract 
Negotiations." 
No open session meeting preceded the executive session. The Town Manager was not 
present. During the meeting, the Board discussed certain legal and practical implications of its 
earlier proposed response to the Town Manager's proposal, and decided to revisit what an 
appropriate counter-proposal should look like. After some discussion, the Board voted 
unanimously to authorize the Chairman to draw up a written offer conveying certain terms. 
10. September 30, 2010; 
Notice for a September 30, 2010 meeting of the Board was posted on September 28, 
2010. Under "Purpose" the notice read "Executive Session — Non-Union Contract 
Negotiations." 
No open session meeting preceded the executive session. The Town Manager was not 
present. During the meeting, the Chairman produced a draft of a letter containing a proposed 
offer to amend certain provision of the Town Manager's existing contract. The minutes reflect 
that "Mr. Whitcomb and Mr. Summers had earlier reviewed the draft letter and expressed some 
3  The executive session minutes for this meeting were incorrectly dated September 23, 2010. It also appears that the 
open session minutes from this date actually correspond with a meeting that occurred on September 28, 2010. We 
note that public bodies have a responsibility to review their minutes for accuracy before they are approved and 
released. 
6 
===PAGE 7===
concerns to the Chairman."4  After some discussion, the letter was withdrawn from consideration 
and it was agreed that the Vice-Chair would create a new draft for consideration. 
11. October 7, 2010; 
Notice for an October 7, 2010 meeting of the Board was posted on October 4, 2010. 
Under "Purpose" the notice read "Executive Session — Non-Union Contract Negotiations." 
No open session meeting preceded the executive session. All members except for the 
Chairman were present. The Town Manager was not present. The new letter, drafted by the 
Vice-Chair, was read and considered. A vote was taken, and all members present voted to 
submit the letter to the Town Manager. 
On or around October 8, 2010, the Vice-Chair sent the letter to the Town Manager. In 
the letter, she noted that "[w]hile the Board is in agreement that it will not offer you a new 
contract after your current contract expires on June 30, 2011, the Board believes that it would be 
in the best interests of the Town for you to conclude your contract as scheduled." The letter then 
offered a payment of $45,000, in addition to the accrued sick and vacation time already due to 
the Town Manager, provided the Town Manager completed the term of his current contract. 
On or around October 18, 2010, the Town Manager sent a memo to the Vice-Chair with 
the subject "Contract Amendment" that stated, in part, "I am inclined to accept the contract 
amendment offer as set forth in your 10/8 correspondence." 
12. November 2, 2010; 
Notice for a November 2, 2010 meeting of the Board was posted on October 25, 2010. 
On or around October 28, 2010, an agenda was posted for the meeting that listed, under "Other 
Business", an item reading "Executive Session- Preparation for Contract Negotiations with Non-
Union Personnel." 
At the conclusion of the open session meeting, the Chairman stated he would "look for a 
motion to adjourn to executive session for the purpose of preparation for contract negotiations 
with nonunion personnel with no public meeting to follow." A roll call vote followed and passed 
unanimously. The Town Manager was not present for either the open or executive session 
portions of this meeting. 
During the executive session, the Chairman indicated that the Town Manager had 
received the Board's proposal and was inclined to accept it, thus he had requested counsel draw 
up a formal contract addendum to the Town Manager's existing contract. A vote was taken, and 
4  It appears that some discussion of the contents of this draft letter occurred via email. We caution the Board to be 
mindful of the need to avoid serial communications between members that may result in policy decisions being 
made behind closed doors. A public body may not engage in a serial communication whereby a quorum 
communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting, on a particular subject matter within the 
public body's jurisdiction. See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008). 
7 
===PAGE 8===
all members voted to submit the draft as a formal offer to the Town Manager for final review and 
approval. 
13. November 9, 2010; 
Notice for a November 9, 2010 meeting of the Board was posted on October 25, 2010. 
On or around November 4, 2010, an agenda was posted for the meeting that listed, under "Other 
Business", an item reading "Executive Session- Non-Union Contract Negotiations." 
At the conclusion of the open session meeting, the Chairman looked for a motion to 
adjourn to executive session "for [non]- union contract negotiations" with no public meeting to 
follow. The Board was polled and the motion passed unanimously. 
Although he was present during the open session portion of the meeting, the Town 
Manager did not attend the executive session that followed. During the executive session, the 
Chairman produced the contract addendum, which had been signed by the Town Manager, and it 
was circulated for the review and signature of each member. The addendum was signed by all 
five members, and dated November 9, 2010. The minutes reflect that, "Ms. Seldin inquired how 
and when the agreement would be made public. Chairman Sussman indicated it should be made 
at the next available BOS meeting, but expressed concern the next meeting was envisioned as a 
forum on school regionalization. He suggested he would work out scheduling in the next day or 
two, and the BOS members would be contacted re available dates." 
14. November 19, 2010; 
Notice for a November 19, 2010 meeting of the Board was posted on November 15, 
2010. Under "Purpose" the notice read "Addendum to Town Manager's Contract." 
All five members of the Board and the Town Manager attended the open session meeting 
on November 19, 2010. During the meeting, the Chairman described the process that had taken 
place in executive session during the preceding months, noting that the Board had decided to let 
the Town Manager's contract expire rather than renew it. He explained there was no support for 
a five year extension, and that the Board had rejected the Town Manager's proposed one year 
extension by a vote of 3 to 2, and decided instead to accept an addendum to his current contract, 
which was being presented for ratification. The addendum would provide the Town Manager 
with a severance payment upon completion of his remaining contract term, but would not renew 
his contract. 
Significant debate followed regarding whether the issue before the Board was renewal or 
non-renewal of the contract, versus ratification of the contract addendum. A motion was 
ultimately made to ratify the addendum to the Town Manager's contract. 
More than 20 members of the public then commented, overwhelmingly supporting the 
Town Manager and expressing a wish that the Board reconsider its decision and extend his 
contract. During the discussion, it was noted that, while the Town Charter called for the Board 
to evaluate the Town Manager's performance annually, this had only occurred once in three 
8 
===PAGE 9===
years. According to the minutes, the Chairman responded that "he did not circulate the 
performance evaluation sheets because he felt the contract discussions [were] the evaluation 
process this time." At one point, former Town Manager Bergstrom suggested a recall election 
and the requirements for a recall petition were discussed. Following additional discussion, the 
Board voted unanimously to ratify the contract addendum. 
15. November 23, 2010; 
Notice for a November 23, 2010 meeting of the Board was posted on October 25, 2010. 
During the open session meeting on that date, the Board voted to approve and release the 
executive session minutes from all of the above-listed executive session meetings except for 
those held on September 24, 2010 and October 7, 2010. 5  Chairman Sussman stated he was 
attaching certain documents to the minutes, including the Town Manager's July 14, 2010 
proposal; the October 8, 2010 letter to the Town Manager, drafted by the Vice-Chair; and the 
Town Manager's acceptance of the contract amendment. 
Sometime after this meeting, a petition began circulating to recall the three Board 
members who voted against the one year extension of the Town Manager's contract. 
The Cape Cod Chronicle Article 
On November 30, 2010, Selectman Roper sent an email to Vice-Chair Seldin and 
Selectman Summers with the subject line "Joint Statement." Attached to the email was a 
statement that Roper prepared "to answer some of the stories and charges" regarding the Town 
Manager's contract. Roper stated "If you both agree, then I suggest we send it to Tim Wood et 
al.,"6  and he invited the others to revise it as they saw fit. 
On December 1, 2010, in response to feedback on the original statement, Selectman 
Roper sent a revised version of the Statement to Vice-Chair Seldin and Selectman Summers, 
noting 
my hope is to spell out the facts in the most simple, dignified and non-political way 
possible. Those calling for recall will never be appeased, but at least the publication of 
this draws attention to what we had to do, and did. My goal is to build up confidence and 
support for those in the dark ... the leaners ... and those who already agree with us, all to 
give them substance to explain our decision. 
Later that day, Selectman Roper sent the statement by email to the Cape Cod Chronicle 
and requested that it be published in its entirety. The paper did not adhere to this request. 
On December 10, 2010, Roper sent an email to Selectman Summers and Vice-Chair 
Seldin with the subject line "Joint Statement Ad." Roper stated that he had edited the initial 
statement to fit a half page ad in the paper, noting "I hate having to pay for something [they] 
should do in the public interest, but I see no alternative." Later that day, Roper sent another 
5  It is unclear when these two sets of executive session minutes were released, though it appears the Board did do so. 
Editor of the Cape Cod Chronicle. 
9 
===PAGE 10===
email to Vice-Chair Seldin incorporating her edits. After stating "I'm simply in campaign mode, 
and believe me — this is a campaign," Roper explained to Vice-Chair Seldin that "[w]e've 
endured negative attacks for weeks" and "Nemaining silent only feeds their fire" and allowing 
critics to "continue to spin this their way will only hurt us more." The statement was then 
submitted to the Cape Cod Chronicle for publication as a half page, paid advertisement. 
On December 16, 2010, "A Statement Explaining Our Decision on the Town Manager 
Contract" was published in the Cape Cod Chronicle. The statement was signed by Selectmen 
Roper, Seldin, and Summers. The first paragraph explained that 
This statement is offered to both explain the process and answer the questions we 
consider most relevant. It was submitted to the Cape Cod Chronicle on December 1, 
2010, but has not been published in the printed edition. Consequently, this space has 
been purchased to better inform the public. 
The statement then described the events that occurred leading up to the execution of the 
contract addendum. 
DISCUSSION 
The complaints allege that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in four different ways. 
We address these allegations in turn, as well as other concerns that arose during the course of our 
review. 
1) The Board failed to post proper notice for 13 meetings held between August and November 
2010  
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting." G.L. c. 20, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice 
with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03. We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body's discussion. 
The Board's notice for each of the thirteen meetings was not sufficiently specific to 
advise the public of the issues the Board planned to discuss during its executive sessions. All of 
these notices indicated there would be an executive session, and all stated in some level of detail 
that the executive session was for the purpose of contract negotiations, but none specified that 
the contract being discussed was that of the Town Manager. These meeting notices therefore fell 
short of the requirement that the Board state "all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session" will be called. See  G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(b)(3); District Attorney for Northern Dist. v. School Committee of Wayland,  455 Mass. 561, 
567 (Mass. 2009) (" [a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is 
necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public 
10 
===PAGE 11===
that the school committee would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would 
know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper"). 
The Chairman was aware at the time the meeting notices were created that the Town 
Manager's contract would be a topic of discussion, therefore the notices should have stated that 
the Board would be meeting in executive session to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
negotiations with Town Manager Bill Hinchey, or to conduct contract negotiations with Town 
Manager Bill Hinchey. Providing the public with this additional information would not have 
been detrimental to the Board's negotiating position, particularly as the Town Manager was 
aware of the sessions, having helped create the meeting agendas. It would, however, have put 
any interested member of the public on notice that there was a specific individual whose contract 
was being negotiated. 
In addition, we note that prior to entering executive session, the chair of the public body 
must "state the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(b)(3). For the same reasons that the meeting notices were deficient, the verbal statement of 
the executive session purpose during the nine meetings7  at which the Board took a vote to enter 
executive session also did not meet the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. Prior to each 
vote, the Chairman should have publicly stated that the executive session was being held for the 
purpose of conducting strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with Town Manager Bill 
Hinchey, or to conduct contract negotiations with Town Manager Bill Hinchey. Doing so would 
have made clear that the Board intended to meet to conduct contract negotiations with specific 
non-union personnel. 
2) The Board's discussions during the 13 meetings were appropriate for executive session. 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). However, the Open Meeting Law permits public bodies 
to enter executive session and conduct deliberations outside of the public view for ten specific 
purposes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One appropriate purpose for executive session is "No 
conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct 
collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(2) ("Purpose 2"). 
The complainant argues that the Board's discussions during the thirteen executive session 
meetings were not proper under Purpose 2 because the Town Manager's contract had not yet 
expired, and the Board was actually discussing a compromise proposal to keep the Town 
Manager in his position for the duration of his existing contract. We disagree. Discussions 
relating to the negotiation of contract terms for a non-union employee are appropriate for 
executive session under Purpose 2, regardless of whether the employee's contract has expired or 
is imminently due to expire. 
August 5, 10, 16, and 31, 2010; September 7, 14, and 21, 201; and November 2 and 9, 2010. 
11 
===PAGE 12===
Furthermore, although not raised by the complainant, we note that the Board's discussion 
of the Town Manager's job performance during three of the executive session meetings8, while 
generally not an appropriate topic for executive session, appears to have been permissible here. 
The Open Meeting Law contemplates that, generally, professional competence discussions will 
take place in open session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) and § 21(a)(8). However where, as here, the 
discussion of professional competence is not in the context of an evaluation, but rather is 
discussed as a factor to be considered in a contract negotiation, it is appropriate for executive 
session. See Wayland, 455 Mass. at 568 ("While professional competence must first be 
discussed in an open session, how that evaluation will factor into a contract or salary negotiation 
strategy may be a suitable discussion for an executive session."). 
Likewise, the Board's discussions with Thomas Groux during its September 7, 2010 
meeting about "the standard procedures required of a BOS in conducting a search for a Town 
Manager" also were appropriate under Purpose 2. An understanding of the Town Manager 
search process was an important part of the Board's preparation for negotiations with the Town 
Manager, as it allowed them to assess their alternatives to his proposal. 
Although negotiation of the Town Manager's contract was an appropriate subject for 
executive session, once the negotiations reached fruition the Board had an obligation to return to 
open session to vote on the contract addendum. The law allows a public body to meet in 
executive session to prepare for and conduct contract negotiations with non-union personnel, but 
does not authorize a public body to approve a contract in executive session. Therefore, while a 
public body may reach agreement on the terms of a contract in executive session, it must vote to 
approve or ratify the agreement in open session before it can become effective. See OML 2011- 
28 (finding that school committee violated the Open Meeting Law by voting to approve 
superintendent's contract addendum in executive session). 
The Board's discussion during its September 7 and 14, 2010 meetings about consulting 
with Town Counsel about whether to take the vote on the contract in open session shows it was 
aware that this may not be permissible. Despite its concerns, however, it appears that the Board 
never did consult with counsel on this issue and decided instead to go ahead and approve the 
contract addendum in executive session on November 9, 2010. 
Although the Board improperly executed the contract addendum during the November 9, 
2010 executive session, it acted appropriately by discussing the contract addendum during a 
properly noticed open meeting ten days later. During that meeting, following an in-depth 
discussion of the contract negotiation process and a meaningful opportunity for public comment, 
the Board voted to ratify the addendum. Therefore we find that the Board effectively cured any 
violation. 
3) The Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by not giving written notice of the  
executive sessions to the Town Manager, but did fail to follow procedures for convening 
an executive session on numerous occasions.  
August 26 and 31, 2010; September 7, 2010. 
12 
===PAGE 13===
The Complainant alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to give 
written notice to the Town Manager of the executive sessions, pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). That section requires that, if a public body enters into executive session 
"No discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than 
professional competence of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or 
complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual," 
the body must notify the individual in writing at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive 
session and afford the person certain rights. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). 
Although the Board's meeting notices did not state the executive session purpose in as much 
detail as required, it is clear that the Board intended to meet in executive session during the 
thirteen meetings pursuant to Purpose 2, which relates to contract negotiations. Unlike executive 
session Purpose 1, executive session Purpose 2 does not grant an individual the right "to be 
present at such executive session during deliberations which involve that individual." See G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(1)(i), 21(a)(2). Certainly, if a body plans to meet in executive session to 
conduct "contract negotiations with nonunion personnel," as Purpose 2 permits, it is implied that 
either the individual or his/her representative will be present. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) 
(emphasis added). However, public bodies may also use Purpose 2 "[t]o conduct strategy 
sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel." Id. This clause contains no 
similarly inherent assumption that both parties to the negotiation be present. Furthermore, we 
note that the Town Manager was likely aware that his proposal was the topic of discussion 
during the executive sessions, since he and the Chairman jointly created the agenda for the 
Board's meetings. 
While the Board did not act inappropriately by not giving written notice to the Town 
Manager that he was subject of discussion at the executive sessions, the Board repeatedly failed 
to follow other required procedures for convening executive sessions. In some instances, such as 
on August 10, 2010, the Board merely failed to take a roll call vote to enter executive session. 
On four instances, however, the Board disregarded all procedures required for properly entering 
executive session. On August 26, September 24 and 30, and October 7, 2010, the Board did not 
convene in open session first, did not state the purpose for the executive session, and did not take 
a roll call vote to enter executive session. While we acknowledge that many of these executive 
sessions occurred at the conclusion of long open session meetings that ran well into the evening, 
the procedures required by the law are more than mere formalities. The requirements that a body 
convene in open session, state the purpose for the executive session, and conduct a roll call vote 
to enter executive session are intended to protect the public's right to know when a body is 
discussing matters behind closed doors and the reasons its members believe a private discussion 
is warranted. By failing to follow these procedures, the Board denied the public that right. 
As a final matter, although not raised by the complainant, we note that the Board's executive 
session meeting minutes do not satisfy the requirement that minutes include "a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). It is clear from the executive 
session minutes that certain documents, including the Town Manager's proposal, a draft letter 
responding to that proposal, and a draft contract addendum drawn up by an attorney, were 
discussed during the executive session meetings, but none are listed as documents used at those 
13 
===PAGE 14===
meetings. While the Board appears to have included such a list with its open session minutes, it 
failed to do so in its executive session minutes. 
4) Discussion among a quorum of the Board prior to the publication of a December 16, 2010 
statement in the Cape Cod Chronicle did not constitute improper deliberation.  
"Deliberation" is defined, for purposes of the Open Meeting Law, as "an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Although the 
emails that preceded publication of the December 16, 2010 statement in the Cape Cod Chronicle 
were exchanged between three members, and therefore a quorum, of the Board, we find they did 
not constitute improper deliberation because statements characterizing past acts for political 
purposes are not communications on public business within the jurisdiction of the public body. 
The Statement explained the reasons why the three Board members who signed it acted as 
they did with respect to the Town Manager's contract addendum. While the negotiation of that 
addendum was a matter within the Board's jurisdiction, the Statement itself was, at its core, three 
elected officials' public defense to a political challenge in the form of a recall petition. 
Individually, each member of a public body may make public statements defending his or her 
votes. The fact that these three Board members chose to do so collectively did not extinguish 
that ability. Written or oral communications aimed at formulating such a statement also do not 
violate the Open Meeting Law. We therefore find no violation in connection with the 
publication of the December 16, 2010 statement, but we caution public body members to be 
conscious, when formulating such statements, of the need to limit discussion to the political 
statement and avoid discussing matters that are within the public body's jurisdiction. 
CONCLUSION 
The Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to provide sufficient detail about 
the purpose for its executive sessions, both in its meeting notices and when it convened in 
executive session during the 13 meetings. The Board also failed to consistently follow proper 
procedures when convening many of these executive sessions. We accordingly order immediate 
and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution the Board that a determination 
by our office of similar violations in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate 
the Open Meeting Law. We also order the Board to attend a training on the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, within ninety (90) days of receipt of this letter, to be conducted by an 
attorney or organization familiar with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law and approved 
by this office. Finally, we order the Board, within thirty (30) days of receipt of this letter, to 
review the minutes of each of the 13 executive sessions and amend them where appropriate to 
include "a list of documents and other exhibits used." 
14 
===PAGE 15===
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. If you have any questions regarding this letter, or believe any of the facts in this letter are 
inaccurate, please do not hesitate to contact our office. 
Sincerely, 
Amy L. Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc 	 Gregory R. Smith, Esq. 
15 