===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
 
       January 27, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 2 
 
 
 
Townsend Affordable Housing Trust 
 c/o Erin Stefield, Housing and Grant Administrator 
272 Main Street 
Townsend, MA 01469 
 
By email only: estefield@townsendma.gov 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Stefield: 
 
This office received a complaint from Cindy King on October 22, 2024, alleging that the 
Townsend Affordable Housing Trust (the “Trust”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Trust on September 18, 2024, and the 
Trust responded to the complaint by letter dated October 7, 2024.  The complaint alleges that a 
quorum of the Trust deliberated after the conclusion of the meeting held on September 12, 2024.     
 
Following our review, we find that the Trust violated the Open Meeting Law in the way 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Trust’s response 
to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  In addition, 
we reviewed the notice and video recording of the Trust meeting held on September 12, 2024.
1   
 
  
 
1 A video recording of the Trust meeting held on September 12, 2024, is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cQjPDAM5WOY and https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wYF3WryIwRU.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Trust is a five-member public body; thus, three 
members constitute a quorum.   
 
On September 5, 2024, at 7:02 A.M., the Trust posted notice of a meeting to be held on 
September 12, 2024, at 6:00 P.M.  One of the headings listed on the notice was “Meeting 
Business – votes may be taken.”  The notice then listed nine specific item descriptions that 
further advised the public of the topics to be discussed under this heading, which included  
“Update on ADU bylaw and the State’s Affordable Homes Act,” “Discussion on MBTA 
Communities Bylaw,” “Discussion of and support for work on inclusionary zoning bylaw 
proposed changes,” and “Subsidized Housing Inventory (SHI) discussion.” 
 
The September 12, 2024, meeting was held as planned and four of the five Trust 
members attended the meeting.  The Trust discussed affordable housing throughout the entire 
meeting as it related to the Accessory Dwelling Unit bylaw, the Affordable Homes Act, the 
MBTA Communities Act, the zoning bylaw and the subsidized housing inventory.  The Chair of 
the Trust mentioned the town’s federally designated metropolitan statistical area during the 
discussion about the Affordable Homes Act and then again during the discussion about the 
MBTA Communities Act.  The Chair and the Trust’s Housing and Grants Administrator 
explained that the metropolitan statistical area impacts the threshold at which housing is 
considered “affordable” and stated that Townsend is placed in the same region as Boston, 
Cambridge and Quincy.  The Trust discussed ways to change the town’s federally designated 
metropolitan statistical area, as well as ways to increase the quantity of affordable housing in 
town.   
 
After the Trust voted to adjourn the meeting, three members of the Trust remained in the 
meeting location and continued to discuss the town’s designated metropolitan statistical area and 
ways to change or update the designation.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
beration and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is 
a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  
 
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Trust deliberated outside of an open meeting 
when it continued to discuss the town’s designated metropolitan statistical area after adjourning 
the September 12 meeting.  After watching a video recording of the meeting, we agree.  Here, 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
after the conclusion of the September 12, 2024, meeting, three members of the Trust, a quorum, 
rem
ained in the meeting room and briefly discussed the town’s designated metropolitan 
statistical area.  Any communication among a quorum of a public body on matters that are 
pending or will come before it and within the public body’s jurisdiction is considered 
deliberation.  See OML 2015-3; OML 2014-108; OML 2013-136; Boelter v. Board of Selectmen 
of Wayland, 479 Mass. 233, 243 (2018).2  Moreover, the expression of an opinion of one public 
body member on matters within the body’s jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a 
deliberation, even if no other public body member responds.  See OML 2016-104; OML 2015-
33.  We find that the Trust violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a properly 
posted meeting when a quorum of members continued to discuss a matter within the jurisdiction 
of the Trust after adjournment of the September 12, 2024, meeting.   
 
To the extent the complaint alleges that the Trust discussed a topic, i.e. the met
 ropolitan 
statistical area, without that topic being listed on the September 12, 2024, meeting notice, we do 
not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  Public bodies must post notice of each meeting 
“at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and 
every notice must include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that 
the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The list 
of topics shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to include 
sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35; OML 
2012-71; OML 2011-44.  We find here that the discussion about the town’s designated 
metropolitan statistical area, which impacts the threshold at which housing is considered 
“affordable”, naturally flowed from discussion of the topics listed on the notice.  We have 
previously explained that where a public body’s discussion naturally flows from its consideration 
of a posted agenda topic, the notice was sufficient to inform the public of the discussion that 
occurred.  See OML 2018-14; OML 2014-44; OML 2014-38.  Although we do not find a 
violation, we understand that the Trust specifically listed the metropolitan statistical area as a 
topic on the notice for a meeting held on October 21, 2024. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Trust violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a properly posted meeting.  We order the Trust’s immediate and future 
compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
  
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Trust or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.   
  
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Cindy King – By email only:  
Townsend Town Clerk – By email only: clerk@townsendma.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
