===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
January 29, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 3 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Suzanne Egan, Esq. 
Town Counsel 
Town of North Andover 
120 Main Street 
North Andover, MA 01845 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Egan: 
This office received a complaint from Karen Lauro on May 25, 2020, alleging that the 
North Andover Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 7, and the Board 
responded by letter dated March 24.1 The complaint arises from a Massachusetts Department of 
Transportation (“MassDOT”) road project at 591 Massachusetts Avenue and several related 
meetings.2 Ms. Lauro identifies many concerns with the planning and implementation of the 
project.3 In her complaint, Ms. Lauro alleges that 1) members of the Board deliberated outside of 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 The complaint also expresses concerns about meetings which involved town employees. The Open Meeting Law 
imposes obligations on public bodies, not municipal employees such as a public body’s staff. See OML 2019-85; 
OML Declination 5-16-19 (Bourne Town Clerk). Because the Open Meeting Law does not apply to individual 
employees, the allegations concerning town employees, even if true, would not constitute violations of the Open 
Meeting Law. Therefore, we decline to review them. 
3 Ms. Lauro also makes allegations which, even if true, would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law. 
Accordingly, we decline to review them. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of 
Commissioners). For example, the complaint alleges that the Board has not allowed sufficient public participation in 
its meetings regarding the project. The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow public  
participation during its meetings. See G.L. c. 30A § 20(f). The Open Meeting Law permits the chair of a public body 
to decide whether to allow for public participation, and if so, to set limitations on participation. See OML 2017-189; 
OML 2014-23; OML 2012-23. We do, however, encourage public bodies to allow for as much public participation 
as time and circumstances permit. See OML 2015-12; OML 2014-129; OML 2012-59. We take no position as to 
whether the Board may have violated other laws, such as those governing public hearings, as the Division of Open 
Government’s jurisdiction in the complaint process is limited to enforcement of the Open Meeting Law. Finally, any 
allegations regarding the Public Records Law may be directed to the Secretary of State’s Public Records Division.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
a posted meeting, and 2) the Board is improperly withholding from the public minutes from a 
January 25, 2016, executive session.4,5 
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
and find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s 
request for further review. We also reviewed, in camera, the minutes of the Board’s January 25, 
2016, executive session and spoke with you by phone on November 5. Finally, we corresponded 
by email with Ms. Lauro on numerous occasions from May through December 2020. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Board did not deliberate outside of a posted meeting regarding the MassDOT 
Project.  
 The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. The Law defines “meeting” as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any 
matter within the body's jurisdiction; provided however, ‘meeting’ shall not include: (a) an on-
site inspection of a project or program, so long as the members do not deliberate....” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 18. The Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business 
within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of 
other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed 
at a meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.” Id. For the purposes of the 
Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id. 
 The complaint alleges that the Board deliberated either during executive session or 
outside of a public meeting in order to take certain actions which are required by MassDOT 
procedure for complex road expansion projects such as the one at 591 Massachusetts Avenue. 
However, the complainant does not provide specific evidence of deliberation by the Board, only 
an inference that deliberation must have occurred because certain actions were required to have 
been taken. In response, the Board asserts that “[a] quorum of the Board did not meet during 
executive session or outside of a posted meeting to [take] any action with regard to the project 
approval process for the Mass. Ave. improvement project.” In the absence of evidence to the 
contrary, we credit the public body’s account of the facts. See OML 2020-60; OML 2020-86.6 In 
 
4 Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the 
alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged violation could not reasonably have been known at the time it 
occurred, then the complaint must be filed within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered. 940 
CMR 29.05(3). When an alleged violation occurs in open session, the alleged violation can reasonably be discovered 
at the time it occurs. See OML 2014-85; OML 2012-52. We decline to review any allegations regarding open 
sessions which could have been discovered at the time the meetings took place. See OML Declination 10-9-12 
(Falmouth Board of Selectmen). 
5 We decline to review any additional allegations contained in the request for further review that were not included 
in the original complaints filed with the public body. Our office does not conduct broad audits of public bodies and 
will address only specific allegations made in an Open Meeting Law complaint. See OML 2020-2; OML 
Declination 4-22-15 (Natick Economic Development Committee). 
6 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
particular, we credit the Board’s acknowledgment that the Board did not take the actions that Ms. 
Lauro alleges the Board was required to have taken. Therefore, we find no evidence that the 
Board deliberated outside of a meeting in this respect. If these actions were taken by staff, we 
would also not find an Open Meeting Law violation as individual public officials are not public 
bodies and therefore are not subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2012-28. We take no 
position as to whether the Board complied with MassDOT requirements stemming from the 
receipt of MassDOT funds for the road project.  
 In addition, the complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board was present at a Town of 
North Andover Tree Warden public hearing at the corner of Autran Avenue and Massachusetts 
Avenue around February 17, 2020. In addition to members of the Board, MassDOT project 
managers and engineers, North Andover Department of Public Works engineers, town 
administrative staff, Ms. Lauro and some neighbors also attended the hearing. The Board 
explains that the hearing was run by the Tree Warden and the Board merely observed the 
proceedings. Later that evening, the Tree Warden updated the Board on the results of the hearing 
at an open Board meeting. The Open Meeting Law specifically excludes from the definition of 
“deliberation” the “attendance by a quorum of a public body at a public or private gathering, 
including a conference or training program or a media, social or other event, so long as the 
members do not deliberate.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Although a quorum of the Board was present at 
the Tree Warden hearing, we find no evidence of deliberation, as the Board members merely 
observed the hearing. See OML 2017-44. Therefore, we do not find that the Board deliberated 
outside of a posted meeting in violation of the Open Meeting Law regarding the project at 591 
Massachusetts Avenue. 
2. The Board has permissibly withheld from the public its January 25, 2016, executive 
session minutes as the purpose for the executive session remains ongoing. 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Executive session minutes may be 
withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of 
the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(1). When the purpose for a valid 
executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the session 
must be disclosed, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records 
Law applies. Id. The burden of justifying continued nondisclosure of executive session minutes 
lies with the public body. Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham Regional School Committee, 402 Mass. 
179, 184 (1988). 
 On January 25, 2016, the Board entered executive session under “M.G.L. Chapter 30A, 
§21(a)- reason #6 to consider value of real property.” The Open Meeting Law requires that 
meetings of a public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an 
executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Among the ten enumerated 
purposes for executive session is “Purpose 6,” which permits a public body “[t]o consider the 
purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may 
have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(6). 
Purpose 6 is intended to preserve confidentiality in negotiating the value of the property to be 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
purchased, exchanged or leased to avoid putting the public body at a disadvantage in its 
negotiations for the property. See District Atty. for the Plymouth Dist. v. Selectmen of 
Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 631 (1985). We have reviewed, in camera, the Board’s January 
25, 2016, executive session minutes.7 The minutes have not been released to the public, and 
therefore we do not recount their content in detail here, though we note the discussion did not 
relate to the 591 Massachusetts Avenue project. We are satisfied that the Board’s discussions 
related to the value of real property and fell within a proper executive session purpose, and that 
the executive purpose remains ongoing. Therefore, we find no violation of the Open Meeting 
Law. 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Karen Lauro (via e-mail:  
 North Andover Board of Selectmen c/o Chair Chris Nobile (via e-mail: 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 We take this opportunity to remind the Board of the level of detail that is required of both open and executive 
session minutes. The Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes include more than a statement that a public 
body held a discussion about a specified topic; the Law requires that the minutes summarize the discussion that was 
held. See OML 2019-167; OML 2018-8. 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 