===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
   
 
 
 
 
August 9, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 151 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
 
Thomas Matuszko 
Executive Director 
Berkshire Regional Planning Commission 
tmatuszko@berkshireplanning.org 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Matuszko: 
 
This office received a complaint from Catherine Foster on July 5, 2024
1, alleging that the 
Berkshire Regional Planning Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on June 5. You 
responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Commission, by letter dated June 20. The complaint 
alleges that the Commission posted an insufficiently specific notice for a meeting to be held on 
June 6. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the notice did not include the names of the 
individuals to be appointed to committees and did not include attachments that corresponded 
with two topics listed on the notice.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include the names of the anticipated appointees on the notice for the June 6 meeting. 
We find that the Commission did not violate the Law in the other ways alleged. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Commission’s response, the request for 
further review, and the notice and minutes of the meeting held on June 6, as well as the 
supplemental materials listed as attachments on the notice.
2  
 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2024. 
2 The supplemental materials are available at https://berkshireplanning.org/about/agendas-and-min utes/.  
===PAGE 2===
   
 
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On June 4 at 8:18 A.M., the Commission posted notice 
for a meeting to be held on June 6 at 4:00 P.M. The notice included eleven topics. The sixth topic 
was entitled “Items Requiring Action” and contained five subheadings, three of which were the 
following: “B. Vote to Re-appoint Members to Special or Standing Committees or Commissions 
not Under the Jurisdiction of the Commission;” “C. Vote to Approve Amendments to BRPC’s 
Professional Development Program;” and “D. Vote to Approve Revisions to BRPC’s Telework 
Policy.” The notice also listed 17 “attachments” which were documents that the Commission 
would consider during the meeting, and which corresponded with specific topics listed on the 
notice. Three of the attachments were the “Executive Director’s Memorandum” which included 
the names of three public bodies and the individuals to be appointed to those bodies, a draft of 
the Professional Development Program, and the proposed Telework Policy Amendment. The 
attachments were posted to the Commission’s website, www.berkshireplanning.org. 
 
The June 6 meeting was held as planned. During the meeting, the Commission approved 
one set of meeting minutes, a financial report, and the submission of a grant application for a rain 
garden; appointed three different individuals to three separate public bodies; approved 
amendments to the Professional Development Program which would allow staff to obtain 
professional certificates or degrees; approved a one year extension to the Commission’s 
Telework Policy; and received updates and reports from subcommittees and the Executive 
Director. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting, not including weekends and holidays, and include “the date, time and place of such 
meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with 
“sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2024-122; OML 2018-7; OML 2015-35.
3  
 
The complaint alleges that the notice of the June 6 meeting was insufficiently specific as 
it did not include the names of the individuals to be appointed. Here, the June 6 meeting notice 
included the following topic: “Vote to Re-appoint Members to Special or Standing Committees 
or Commissions not Under the Jurisdiction of the Commission,” but did not list the specific 
committees or commissions nor the names of the candidates under consideration for 
appointment. The Commission explains that the names of the individuals to be appointed were 
included in the Executive Director’s Memorandum which was listed on the notice as an 
attachment and posted on the Commission’s website. Even for public bodies that use a website as 
their official notice posting location and therefore may post supporting documentation alongside 
the meeting notice, a meeting notice must include the level of specificity that the Open Meeting 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
   
 
3 
 
Law requires; we do not review the contents of an accompanying meeting packet. See OML 
2020-31 (finding that a public body violated the Open Meeting Law where required level of 
specificity was contained within a meeting packet but was not included on the notice itself). 
Moreover, we have consistently stated that the names of applicants for appointment, which are 
known 48 hours in advance of a meeting, should be posted on a meeting notice. See OML 2021-
181; OML 2020-80; OML 2016-150; OML 2013-163. While we acknowledge that the names of 
the specific individuals as well as the public bodies that they were being appointed to were 
included in the Executive Director’s Memorandum, and we find no indication of an intention to 
deprive the public of this information, the names should have been included on the meeting 
notice itself and not just included in the attached memo, which required users to navigate to a 
separate page and document. See OML 2020-21. Thus, we find that the Commission violated the 
Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently specific meeting notice. 
 
The complaint also alleges that the notice did not include the amendments to the 
Prof
essional Development Program or the revisions to the Telework Policy that the Commission 
planned to review and discuss during the June 6 meeting. The Open Meeting Law does not 
require that a public body attach supporting documents to a meeting notice or that it publicly post 
a “meeting packet” that contains such documents. See OML 2022-19; OML 2021-181. We find 
that the notice described the two topics at issue, “Vote to Approve Amendments to BRPC’s 
Professional Development Program” and “Vote to Approve Revisions to BRPC’s Telework 
Policy,” with sufficient specificity. The Commission was not required to include attachments 
pertaining to each of these topics, even if its usual practice has been to do so.  
 
Although the Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body affirmatively 
provi
de copies of documents to persons in attendance at a meeting, we encourage public bodies, 
whenever feasible, to provide meeting attendees with copies of all documents they intend to 
discuss. Particularly where viewing such documents would be helpful to following the 
conversation during the meeting, providing copies of documents that the Commission intends to 
discuss promotes transparency and public access to government deliberations. See OML 2022-
199; OML 2016-94. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to include the names of the anticipated appointees on the notice for the June 6 
meeting. We order the Commission’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of an intent to 
violate the Law.  
 
  
===PAGE 4===
   
 
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Commission 
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.     
 
 
 
Sincerely,   
 
 
 
 
 
Kerry Kilcoyne   
Assistant Attorney General   
Division of Open Government   
   
 
Assisted by Andrea Royo, Legal Intern  
  
 
cc: Catherine Foster (via email: ) 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
