===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www. mass, gov/ago 
December 19, 2017 
OML 2017-196 
David Gerwatowski 
Legislative Counsel 
Office of City Council 
City of New Bedford 
133 William Street 
New Bedford, MA 02740 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Gerwatowski: 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty on November 21, alleging that the 
New Bedford City Council (the "Council") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c, 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about October 24, and you 
responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Council, by letter dated November 13.2 In his 
complaint, Mr. Beaty alleges that the Council posted three separate notices of its October 12 
meeting that were not drafted in an easily understandable format. Mr. Beaty further alleges 
that those notices failed to list the meeting time and location and failed to record the date and 
time that the notices were posted. 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance 
with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
The City website is the City's official notice posting location.3 Notices can be located 
on the main webpage on the "Public Meeting Notices" link. For its October 12 meeting, the 
Council posted separate links on the same webpage, titled Notice/Agenda and 
Consent/Agenda.4 Both the webpage and the notices indicated the date and time that they 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise specified. 
2 We remind the Council that a copy of the response must also be sent to our office. See G.L. c. 30A, §23(b); 
940 CMR 29.05(5). 
3 Specifically, the City's official notice posting location is http://www.newbedford-ma.gov/public-meeting-
notices/. 
4 In its response, the Council concedes that its third agenda, the Late File Agenda, was not posted on this page. 
The Late File Agenda is for last minute topics that come up within the 48 hours before the meeting. Although it 
o 
===PAGE 2===
were posted. The notices were typed in a legible, easily understandable format which listed 
the date, time and location of the meeting and a list of sufficiently-detailed topics. See G.L. c. 
30A, §20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(1), (2). Accordingly, we find that the notices complied with the 
Open Meeting Law's notice posting requirements. 
We note, however, that the Council's webpage also hosts a list of notices that are 
slightly different than the notices found on the City's official meeting notice webpage. The 
notices found on the Council's webpage do not indicate the date and time of the posting and 
include hyperlinks with additional information on each topic. It appears that the complainant 
filed his complaint on account of this discrepancy. We encourage the Council to ensure that 
its meeting notices are consistent both on its own page and on the City's page, which is the 
official notice posting location. See 2017-156; OML 2015-53.5 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Council. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
cc: Ronald Beaty 
New Bedford City Council 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
is a best practice to post a revised agenda with these additional topics, if possible, it is not required by the Open 
Meeting Law. See FAQ on Meeting Notices, available at https://www.mass.gov/service-details/frequently-
asked-questions-about-the-open-meeting-law-meetings-meeting-notices-and, 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www,mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 