===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 27, 2018 
OML 2018-39 
Janelle Austin, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street, 12th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Austin: 
This office received a complaint from George Harris on July 19, alleging that the 
Wayland School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about June 7, and 
Chair Ellen Grieco responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, by email on July 
5.2 In his complaint, Mr. Harris alleges that the Committee's May 8 meeting notice failed to 
specifically identify certain nonunion personnel who were the subject of negotiation 
discussions. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in 
the manner alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee's response to the complaint, a supplemental response from you, dated October 18, 
and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the 
notice and executive sessions minutes of the Committee's May 8 meeting. 
We find the facts as follows. On May 8, the Committee met in executive session to 
discuss negotiation strategy with respect to numerous nonunion employees, including 
employees of The Children's Way, a preschool, and BASE (Before/After School Extension). 
The Committee listed this executive session topic as follows: 
10. Executive Session #2 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise specified. 
2 Our office granted the Committee an extension of time to respond to the complaint until July 5. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
(c) Discuss Strategy with Respect to and in Preparation for Negotiations with Non-
Union Personnel, pursuant to M.G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(2) (Non-union personnel are 
listed below) 
Listed below the remainder of the agenda was a list of 55 specific positions of 
nonunion personnel who were the subject of the negotiation discussion, such as 
"Accountant/Analyst." Immediately following those positions, the Committee listed, "The 
Children's Way" and "BASE." 
DISCUSSION 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Notices must include 
"a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." Id. 
The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues 
to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). Public bodies may enter a closed, 
executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. One 
permissible reason to convene in executive session is "[t]o conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) 
("Purpose 2"). The chair of the public body must first announce in open session the purpose 
for the executive session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); see also 
District Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland. 455 Mass, 561, 567 ("[a] precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary under the open 
meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public that the school Board 
would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for 
doing so was proper or improper"). Public bodies should identify, both in their notice and in 
the open session announcement, the name of the specific nonunion personnel that is the 
subject of discussion under Purpose 2, unless disclosure would compromise the Board's 
negotiating position. See OML 2015-193; OML 2016-70.3 
As a threshold matter, while not at issue in the complaint, we note that the 
Committee's executive session discussion regarding nonunion personnel did not appear to 
concern any specific individuals' contracts, but was instead a budgetary discussion. Purpose 
2 is limited to protecting a public body's negotiating position when negotiating or discussing 
negotiations with specific nonunion personnel or with specific collective bargaining units. 
We take this opportunity to remind the Committee that general budgetary discussions must 
occur in open session. See OML 2014-30; OML 2015-63 (discussion of a wide-ranging 
strategy that would reach beyond any one employee or unit should be done in open session). 
That said, we agree with the complainant that an executive session topic listed on the 
Committee's May 8 meeting notice failed to identify certain nonunion personnel who were 
the subject of this executive session discussion. See OML 2017-143. Specifically, unlike all 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
N 
of the other nonunion positions it had listed on its meeting notice, the Committee violated the 
Open Meeting Law by failing to specify which nonunion positions/individuals employed by 
the public programs, "The Children's Way" and "BASE," were the subject of the discussion. 
We have previously found that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
provide sufficient detail to the public about an executive session, including a failure to 
specifically identify nonunion personnel when convening under Purpose 2. See OML 2011-9; 
OML 2014-42; OML 2014-69; OML 2015-55; OML 2015-182. Here, because the 
Committee made an effort to comply with this requirement by including the positions of the 
other nonunion personnel, we believe that its failure to specify the Children's Way and BASE 
positions was an oversight, rather than a deliberate attempt to conceal this information from 
the public. Accordingly, we decline to find this violation to be intentional. Nevertheless, as a 
result of its violation, the Committee may not rely upon the Open Meeting Law as the basis 
for continuing to withhold that portion of its executive session minutes. However, the 
attorney-client privilege or one or more exemptions to the Public Records Law may allow the 
Board to withhold that portion of the minutes, in whole or in part, from public disclosure. See 
G.L, c. 3OA, § 22(f). 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to include sufficient detail about an executive session on its May 8 meeting 
notice. We order the Committee's immediate and future compliance with the law's 
requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law. In addition, we order the Committee to publicly release its May 8 
executive session minutes, within 30 days of receipt of this determination, in accordance with 
the guidance above. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: George Harris, Esq. 
Wayland School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 