===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF TI-IE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
October 20, 2011 
OML 2011 - 43 
Mark R. Reich, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint against Blandford Board of Selectmen 
Dear Attorney Reich: 
This office received a complaint from Theodore Jensen, dated April 20, 2011, alleging 
that the Blandford Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25, by meeting or deliberating outside of an open session or properly convened 
executive session when discussing actions taken against Lee Ann Thompson, Blandford's Tax 
Collector. Specifically, the complaint alleges that two Board members "met at the Town office 
on 2-5-11 to plot/plan for the 2-7-11 [Board] meeting." The complaint was originally filed with 
the Board on February 28, 2011. We received a response to the original complaint by you, as 
Town Counsel, dated April 11, 2011 as well as a response from former Blandford Board of 
Selectmen Chair Darlene Horne, received on March 28, 2011. 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when a quorum deliberated on 
matters within the Board's jurisdiction outside of a properly posted meeting. We find that this 
violation was intentional. Additionally, we find that the Board failed to follow the required 
procedures for executive session, and that the Board discussed and voted on matters in executive 
session that should have been acted upon in open session. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the February 28, 2011 and April 20, 2011 complaints, as well as the Board's April 11, 
2011 response and the response from then Board Chair Darlene Horne. We also reviewed the 
open and executive session minutes of the Board's February 7, 2011 meeting, and reviewed a 
number of emails between members of the Board that were provided by the complainant to our 
===PAGE 2===
office following our April 26, 2011 request. Finally, we reviewed a letter from the 
Massachusetts Department of Revenue to the Board, dated January 20, 2011, concerning 
inconsistencies in the Town's balance sheet. 
We note at the outset that, while we appreciate your efforts in representing the Board and 
communicating our concerns, the Board has not fully cooperated with our investigation. 
Specifically, our letter to the Board dated April 26, 2011 requested copies of "any written 
correspondences, including emails, between members of the Blandford Board of Selectmen 
regarding Lee Ann Thompson, Blandford's Tax Collector, sent or received between and 
including January 20, 2011 and February 22, 2011." Our letter also requested copies of such 
correspondence and emails on that subject and in that date range between members of the Board 
"and other town officials." Only Board member Theodore Jensen, the complainant, complied 
with our request. 
FACTS 
The Blandford Board of Selectmen consisted of three members in February 2011: 
Theodore Jansen, Chair Darlene Horne,1  and Robert Nichols. Some of the facts are in dispute, as 
noted below, but these disputes are not material to our resolution of the matter. 
The Blandford Board of Selectmen received a letter, dated January 20, 2011, from the 
Massachusetts Department of Revenue. That letter reported inconsistencies in the Town's 
balance sheet, prompting the Department of Revenue to require that "the balance sheet for the 
close of FY11 must be submitted, and free cash approved prior to this office certifying your 
FY12 tax rate." Following receipt of this letter, the Board scheduled a meeting with Town 
departments for January 31, 2011. The Board requested that the Town Tax Collector, Lee Ann 
Thompson, attend the meeting. Ms. Thompson was unable to attend the meeting. According to 
Ms. Horne, the Town Accountant and the Town Treasurer attended the meeting and reported that 
they could not balance the books to Ms. Thompson's figures. 
The Board then scheduled an executive session for February 7, 2011 and invited Ms. 
Thompson to the meeting. According to Ms. Horne, the purpose of the executive session was to 
discuss Ms. Thompson's "management practices." Ms. Thompson informed the Board that she 
could not attend the February 7, 2011 meeting. 
Ms. Horne states that on February 5, 2011, she was in Town Hall preparing for the 
February 7, 2011 meeting when Mr. Jensen telephoned her and forcefully stated that she had no 
right to examine the Tax Collector's office. Mr. Jensen disputes this, stating that the call never 
occurred. Ms. Horne states that, following the call with Mr. Jensen, she telephoned Mr. Nichols 
to "tell him that Mr. Jensen has broken the open meeting law by calling me and discussing this 
issue." According to Ms. Horne, Mr. Nichols then said he would come to the Town Hall. 
According to Ms. Horne's letter, Ms. Horne and Mr. Nichols met at Town Hall and discussed an 
anticipated vote for the February 7, 2011 executive session regarding a Town audit. She 
Ms. Horne resigned from the Board prior to the time the complaint was filed with our office. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
explained to Mr. Nichols that according to state law, they would need to secure the Tax 
Collector's office pending an audit. They then discussed how they would secure the office 
following the February 7, 2011 vote, and Ms. Horne explained she would have someone install a 
temporary lock on the office door. According to the Board's response to the complaint, Ms. 
Horne asked Mr. Nichols prior to the February 7, 2011 meeting to bring his screw gun (a type of 
power screwdriver) to Town Hall. Mr. Jensen alleges that the two Board members agreed to 
bring equipment to the Board meeting on February 7, 2011 so that they could secure the Tax 
Collector's office after a Board vote. 
At the February 7, 2011 meeting, the Board voted to enter executive session. Ms. 
Thompson was not present. The Board met in executive session with its counsel. The open 
session minutes state that "Darlene made motion to adjourn to Exc. Session. Rob seconded. 
Darlene in favor Rob in favor Ted against. Meeting adjourned to [executive] session." The 
Board did not state which of the 10 enumerated purposes for executive session found at G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a), applied, nor do the minutes reflect whether the Board stated if it would return to 
open session following the executive session. 
According to the executive session minutes, the Board passed a motion to authorize an 
investigation of the Tax Collector pursuant to the Board's authority under G.L. c. 41, § 23B, 
including a referral to the Town's outside auditors. The motion included additional language 
authorizing the Board to secure the Tax Collector's office. The motion passed with Ms. Horne 
and Mr. Nichols voting in favor and Mr. Jensen voting against. The Board then reconvened in 
open session. The open session minutes then state that "as a result of the executive session 
meeting the tax collector's office will be closed [until] an audit is complete." Following the 
meeting, a temporary lock was placed on the Tax Collector's office door. 
Following the February 7, 2011 meeting, there were a number of emails exchanged 
between the three Board members. Some of the emails related to scheduling, but others related 
to topics beyond scheduling, including much discussion and disagreement over what had 
occurred during and before the February 7, 2011 executive session. Some emails were between 
just two members. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)—(b), 21. A "meeting" is defined (with certain exceptions not relevant 
here) as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's 
jurisdiction[.]" G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined, in relevant part, as "an oral or 
written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a 
quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction[.]" Icl. 
A public body may enter executive session—or closed session—for one of ten 
3 
===PAGE 4===
enumerated purposes, provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session, and that the vote of each member 
is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)—(b). Before entering 
the executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive session, stating all 
subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session 
was called, and the chair must publicly announce whether the open session will reconvene at the 
conclusion of the executive session. Id. Among the ten enumerated purposes for executive 
session is Purpose 1, which in pertinent part allows a public body to enter executive session "to 
discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, 
employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The individual to be discussed 
in such executive session must be notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to 
the proposed executive session, and be afforded the right to be present during deliberations that 
involve that individual and the right to speak on his own behalf Id. 
We note that because of the lack of full cooperation by the Board members, we do not 
have a full picture of the facts. However, it is clear that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law. 
1. A Quorum of the Board Intentionally Engaged in Unlawful Deliberations 
The Board violated the Open Meeting Law by engaging in an unlawful deliberation when 
Mr. Nichols met with Ms. Horne on February 5, 2011 at Town Hall. We believe this violation 
was intentional. At Town Hall, Ms. Horne and Mr. Nichols discussed an anticipated vote for the 
February 7, 2011 executive session regarding a Town audit. Ms. Horne explained to Mr. Nichols 
that according to state law, they would need to secure the Tax Collector's office pending an 
audit. We understand this occurred from Ms. Horne's letter. We did not receive any response to 
our requests for information from Mr. Nichols. Although we do not have the full details of this 
discussion, it plainly constituted a deliberation. A quorum of the Board (two out of three 
members) discussed public business within the Board's jurisdiction, outside of a posted meeting. 
They were aware of the requirements of the law — in fact Ms. Horne telephoned Mr. Nichols to 
"tell him that Mr. Jensen has broken the open meeting law by calling me and discussing this 
issue." That telephone conversation and the subsequent in-person conversation between Ms. 
Horne and Mr. Nichols where they discussed action to be taken by the Board constituted 
deliberation outside of a noticed meeting, and resulted in an intentional violation of the Open 
Meeting Law. 
Additionally, our review of the Board members' emails reveals a number of 
communications between two and sometimes all three of the Board members. Some of these 
emails may have been appropriate as mere suggestions (without any expressions of opinion on) 
for agenda items; such suggestions are exempted from the definition of "deliberation" in G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. However, a number of the emails contain opinions and discussion about matters 
within the Board's jurisdiction. Those e-mails constitute deliberations, conducted outside of a 
properly posted meeting, and therefore violate the Open Meeting Law. These emails mostly 
demonstrate serious personal and professional conflicts among the Board members. Therefore, 
we do not recount the content of these emails here. However, the Board's violations are serious 
4 
===PAGE 5===
and this conduct must be addressed. 
2. The Board Failed to Follow Required Procedures for Entering Executive 
Session 
Before entering executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive 
session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called, and the chair must publicly announce whether the open session 
will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). The minutes of 
the Board's February 7, 2011 meeting state only that, "Darlene made motion to adjourn to Exc. 
Session. Rob seconded. Darlene in favor Rob in favor Ted against. Meeting adjourned to 
[executive] session." The Board did not record in the minutes any one of the ten enumerated 
purposes as its reason for entering executive session, or provide any detail about the reason for 
the executive session. The Board failed to state—or at least include a statement in the minutes-
that the Board would reconvene in open session following the executive session. We assume 
that the minutes are accurate and thus the required statements were not made. Conversely, if 
these statements were made but not recorded in the minutes, then those minutes do not meet the 
standards set forth in G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
According to Ms. Horne, the purpose of the executive session was to discuss Ms. 
Thompson's "management practices." There is no executive session purpose among the ten 
enumerated purposes found at G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a), that would permit a Board to enter executive 
session to discuss "management practices." From our review of the executive session minutes, it 
appears that the Board essentially discussed disciplinary action against the Tax Collector. This 
would have been appropriate under executive session Purpose 1, which in pertinent part allows a 
public body to enter executive session "to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or 
charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a)(1). If so, the Board was required to cite Purpose 1 before entering executive session. 
G. L. c. 30A, § 21(b).1  
The Board additionally discussed and approved authorizing an audit of the Town's 
finances. The Board has not asserted that this discussion was part of a disciplinary action or that 
the discussion fit under any of the other permissible purposes for an executive session. This 
discussion therefore should have occurred in open session, even if the Tax Collector was not 
available to address the Board's concerns. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that a quorum of the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by engaging in 
deliberations outside of a posted meeting. Because we believe this violation was intentional, we 
refer this matter for a hearing pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07(3), and recommend that the Board be 
I  The Board was also required under Purpose 1 to provide written notice to the Tax Collector, 48 hours before the 
meeting, offering her the chance to be present and speak on her own behalf. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). It is not clear 
when the Tax Collector received notice, but it does appear that she was provided with notice by the Board and that 
she was aware of the executive session. 
5 
===PAGE 6===
assessed a fine of $1,000 pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c) ("Upon the finding of a violation, the 
attorney general may issue an order to ... impose a civil penalty upon the public body of not 
more than $1,000 for each intentional violation").' We invite counsel for the Board to contact 
this office to discuss the hearing process. The Board additionally violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to identify a purpose for its executive session on February 7, 2011, by failing to 
state whether it would convene in open session after the executive session,2  and by discussing 
topics that were not appropriate for executive session. 
In our discussions with you as counsel during this investigation, you have provided us 
with assurances that you will provide stricter oversight of the Board's activities to ensure future 
compliance with the law. You have also informed our office of your intention to conduct a 
comprehensive Open Meeting Law training with the remaining members. We understand that 
the Board is in a period of transition as the Chair has resigned and new members may soon be 
joining. We expect that the reconstituted Board will pay much closer attention to the Open 
Meeting Law. 
In addition to referring this matter to a hearing on the issue of an intentional violation of 
the Open Meeting Law, we order the Board to take the following remedial actions: 
1. Immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18- 
25. 
2. Attend a training on the Open Meeting Law, and certify to this office that every 
member of the Board has attended that training. The trainings are to be conducted by 
an attorney or organization familiar with the requirements of the Law and approved 
by this Office. The trainings should occur within 60 days of receipt of this 
determination. 
3. Review and publicly release the portions of the executive session minutes of the 
Board's February 7, 2011 where the purpose for executive session has expired. This 
review should occur within 60 days of receipt of this determination. 
4. Publicly release all emails sent or received between and among a quorum of the 
Board that were provided to this office during the investigation and that are not 
subject to privilege. 
In a recent decision, the Hampshire Superior Court fmed the South Hadley School Committee $5,000 for 
intentional violations of the Open Meeting Law. Gelinas v. Town of South Hadley,  C.A. No. 10-129, (Mass. 
Superior Court, filed May 23, 2011). 
2  Alternatively, if these statements were made but not recorded in the minutes, then the Board failed to keep 
adequate minutes as required by the Open Meeting Law. 
6 
===PAGE 7===
Sincerely, 
/ Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
cc: Theodore Jensen 