===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 28, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 175 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
A. Alexander Weisheit, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
aweisheit@k-plaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Weisheit: 
 
This office received a complaint from Kevin Wood on July 9, 2025, alleging that the 
Georgetown Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1 The complaint was initially filed with the Commission on or about June 
3, and Georgetown Conservation Director Michele Grenier responded to the complaint, on behalf 
of the Commission, on June 24.  The complaint alleges that that complainant attempted to join 
the Commission’s May 22 meeting, which was held remotely via Zoom, but was denied access 
to the meeting.  The complaint also alleges that the Commission failed to conduct a roll call of 
members at the start of the meeting.
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Commission’s response, and the complainant’s request for further review of the 
complaint.  We also corresponded with legal counsel for the Commission in July and August, 
and reviewed a Zoom meeting report of the Commission’s May 22 meeting that the Town 
Administrator provided to our office.   
 
1 All dates refer to the year 2025. 
2 The complaint also alleges that the Commission convened the meeting before Georgetown Community Television 
began recording the meeting.  The Division of Open Government’s statutory authority concerns compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The Open Meeting Law does not require that meetings be recorded, and 
an allegation that the meeting was convened before the recording began does not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
Because this allegation, even if true, would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law, we decline to 
review it.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  The Commission posted notice for a meeting to take place 
on May 22 at 7:00 p.m.  The notice specified that the meeting would take place via Zoom and 
included a Zoom link as well as a meeting ID and passcode for attendees to join the meeting.   
 
On May 22 at approximately 5:35 p.m. Conservation Director Grenier initiated the Zoom 
meeting as the meeting host; the Zoom meeting was set up with a waiting room from which the 
meeting host was required to admit attendees into the meeting.  Commission Chair Chris Candia 
logged on to the Zoom meeting at 5:37 p.m., and after waiting approximately 18 seconds in the 
waiting room was admitted into the meeting.  Other members of the Commission began logging 
on to the Zoom meeting after 6:30 p.m. and were admitted into the meeting from the waiting 
room at approximately 6:50 p.m.  Members of the public, including Georgetown Community 
Television, who logged on to the Zoom meeting prior to the 7:00 p.m. start time were admitted 
into the meeting promptly at 7:00 p.m.  Another member of the public, Michael Donohue, logged 
on to the Zoom meeting at 7:08 p.m. and was admitted into the meeting.  The complainant, 
Kevin Wood, logged on to the Zoom meeting at 7:16 p.m.; Mr. Wood remained in the waiting 
room for the entire remaining duration of the meeting and was never admitted into the meeting.  
The meeting was adjourned by roll call vote at 7:34 p.m. at which time the Zoom meeting was 
closed and remaining attendees, including Mr. Wood in the waiting room, were automatically 
removed. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I.  The Commission’s May 22 Meeti ng Was Not Open and Accessible to All 
Members of the Public Who Attempted to Attend. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Council of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.  
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  We have consistently explained that in order for a meeting to 
be open to the public, the meeting must be accessible to the public for the duration of the 
meeting.  See OML 2024-63; OML 2018-51; OML 2017-172; OML 2014-18.
3  In the context of 
meetings held in-person, the building and meeting room must remain accessible for the entire 
duration of the meeting.  See, e.g., OML 2023-99 (finding public body in violation of the Open 
Meeting Law when doors to City Hall were locked intermittently during meeting); OML 2022-
88 (finding public body in violation of the Open Meeting Law when the accessible entrance into 
the building was locked, requiring use of a security buzzer which was not answered).  Similarly, 
for meetings held remotely, we have explained that for a meeting to be open and accessible, 
members of the public must be able to gain access to the meeting at any time throughout the 
duration of the meeting.  See OML 2021-127; OML 2021-10.   
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 The Commission, both in its initial response submitted by Conservation Director Grenier 
and in subsequent correspondence from its attorney, asserted that Conservation Director Grenier 
monitored the Zoom waiting room throughout the May 22 meeting; that all attendees were 
promptly admitted from the waiting room into the meeting; and that nobody attempted to join the 
Zoom meeting after 7:04 p.m.  We requested that the Commission provide the Zoom meeting 
report which would conclusively show the times each attendee logged on to the meeting and 
when they were admitted into the meeting from the waiting room; the Commission did not 
provide the report.  Ultimately the Town Administrator provided the report, which contradicts 
the Commission’s assertions.  One member of the public, Michael Donohue, logged on to the 
meeting at 7:08 p.m. and was admitted into the meeting, and the complainant Mr. Wood waited 
in the waiting room beginning at 7:16 p.m. for the remainder of the meeting, never being 
admitted.  By failing to promptly admit Mr. Wood from the waiting room into the meeting, or 
indeed at all, the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law.
4   
 
We have previously advised that if a public body “uses a Zoom waiting room in order to 
manually admit members of the public to the meeting, it must ensure that attendees are promptly 
admitted to the meeting at the start of and throughout the duration of the meeting.”  OML 2021-
147.  If the Commission continues to use a waiting room for its Zoom meetings, which is its 
prerogative, we emphasize that it must designate somebody to actively monitor and promptly 
admit attendees into the meeting.   
 
II.  The Commission Did Not Announce, a
 t the Start of the Meeting, the 
Name of Each Member Participating Remotely. 
 
The Open Meeting Law provide
 s that “[t]he attorney general may by regulation or letter 
ruling, authorize remote participation by members of a public body…”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(d).  
The Attorney General’s regulations authorize remote participation and require, during any 
meeting at which any member of the public body participates remotely, that “[a]t the start of the 
meeting, the chair shall announce the name of any member who will be participating remotely. 
This information shall also be recorded in the meeting minutes.”  940 CMR 29.10(7)(b).  We 
have explained that a roll call of members present at the start of the meeting or each member’s 
statement of their own name fulfills this requirement.  See OML 2021-50; OML 2021-44.  The 
Commission’s May 22 meeting was held entirely remotely, and therefore the Commission’s 
chair was required to announce, at the start of the meeting, the names of all Commission 
members in attendance.  The Commission does not dispute that the Chair did not, at the start of 
the meeting, announce the names of the Commission members in attendance.  Instead, the 
Commission explains that immediately after convening the meeting the Commission voted by 
roll call to approve the minutes of the previous meeting; we understand the Commission to assert 
that the roll call vote conducted near the start of the meeting effectively served as the 
announcement of the name of each member participating remotely.  We find that the 
Commission did not fulfill the requirement of 940 CMR 29.10(7)(b), and thus violated the Open 
 
4 In response to the complaint the asserted that Mr. Wood should have joined the meeting at 7:00 p.m. “as others do” 
if he wished to attend it.  We note, however, that the Open Meeting Law requires that meetings remain open and 
accessible for the entire duration, unless an executive session is underway, and that even late attendees have a right 
to prompt access to a meeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Meeting Law, but that the violation was de minimis in light of the roll call vote taken 
approximately one minute after the start of the meeting.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by holding a meeting on May 22 that was not open and accessible to the public and by 
failing to announce at the start of the meeting the names of all members participating remotely.  
We order the Commission’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and 
we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Commission 
or our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
  
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
 
       Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Rachel Bancroft, Chair, Georgetown Conservation Commission  
(via email: rbancroft@georgetownma.gov)  
Kerri McManus, Town Clerk (via email: KMcManus@georgetownma.gov) 
Michele Grenier, Conservation Director (via email: mgrenier@georgetownma.gov) 
Orlando Pacheco, Town Administrator (via email: OPacheco@georgetownma.gov) 
Kevin Wood  
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
