===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
February 5, 2020 
OML 2020- 17
Katherine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq.
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Attorney Feodoroff:
This office received two complaints from Stephen Morgan on November 12, 2019 
alleging that the Ashland Community Preservation Committee (the “Committee”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaints were originally filed with the 
Committee on September 9 and October 1, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by 
separate letters dated October 25. The first complaint alleges that the Committee posted an 
insufficiently detailed notice for its September 3 meeting and that the September 3 meeting 
minutes did not include a list of documents used during that meeting. The second complaint 
alleges that the Committee failed to properly respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 
14 business days and that the September 3 meeting minutes did not include a list of documents 
used during that meeting.
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 business days. We find that the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Committee’s responses to the 
complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed 
the notices and open session minutes of the Committee’s September 3 and October 22 meetings. 
Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on January 16, 2020.
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2019.

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. On August 6 at 1:00 P.M., the Committee posted notice of a 
meeting to be held on Tuesday, September 3 at 7:30 P.M. The notice listed four topics - Review 
Previous Meeting Minutes, Discuss any Potential Projects for Warrant Article Consideration, 
Update on Town Forest Project and Grant Agreements, and New Business.
On September 2, Town Manager Michael Herbert emailed the Committee requesting that 
the Committee consider a proposal for landscaping improvements at Mill Pond Park. The 
beautification of Mill Pond Park was an article on the Town’s November 20 Special Town 
Meeting Warrant.
At 5:36 P.M. on September 3, the complainant emailed the Committee suggesting that the 
topics listed on the September 3 meeting notice were insufficiently detailed as the notice did not 
include the dates of the meetings minutes that were to be reviewed and did not list the specific 
projects that were to be discussed. The Committee did not see the complainant’s email until the 
following day after the meeting.
The September 3 meeting was held as planned. The Town Manager introduced a 
proposal for landscaping improvements at the Riverwalk project near Mill Pond Park. The 
Committee discussed the proposal and the long-term maintenance of any landscaping. The 
Committee then discussed whether additional funding would be necessary for the Riverwalk 
project and the importance of this project in improving the area of Mill Pond Park. The 
Committee received an update from the Chair of the Valentine Property Committee on the work 
that had been completed at the Valentine property. Committee Chair Aaron Ladd did not 
anticipate an update on this particular project but allowed the Chair of the Valentine Property 
Committee, who happened to be present at the meeting, to speak about recent updates to the 
property. The Committee did not review any meeting minutes, nor did it discuss the town forest 
project or any grant agreements.
On September 9, the complainant filed the first Open Meeting Law complaint alleging 
that the Committee failed to post a sufficiently detailed notice for the September 3 meeting. On 
October 1, the complainant filed a second Open Meeting Law complaint regarding the 
Committee’s failure to respond to his first complaint within 14 business days. During an 
October 22 meeting, the Committee reviewed both Open Meeting Law complaints and approved 
the September 3 meeting minutes. The Committee responded to both Open Meeting Law 
complaints on October 25.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. Id. The list of topics 
shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at
2

===PAGE 3===
the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-3 5.2
The first complaint alleges that the topics on the September 3 meeting notice lacked 
sufficient detail. When reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly 
insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting notice standing alone. See OML 2015-109; 
OML 2014-155. Rather, we review what was actually discussed at the meeting to determine if 
the notice was sufficiently detailed to make the public aware of the discussion topics. Id. Here, 
the Committee did not review any meeting minutes, nor did it discuss the town forest project or 
any grant agreements. Therefore, we find no violation with respect to the sufficiency of those 
topics listed on the notice. When a public body does not actually deliberate on a noticed topic, 
the public body cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to that topic, even if it would 
have been insufficiently detailed had the public body proceeded with its deliberation. See OML 
2015-63; OML 2014-81.
The other two topics listed on the September 3 meeting notice were “New Business” and 
“Discuss any Potential Projects for Warrant Article Consideration.” We have generally found 
that a topic listed as “New Business” was not sufficiently detailed for purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law. A boilerplate topic such as “New Business” is vague and does not offer the public 
an understanding of the anticipated topics to be discussed at that particular meeting. See OML 
2014-140; OML 2013-14. Best practice is therefore to use “New Business” as a heading below 
which more specific topics are listed. See OML 2017-14. Here, the Committee discussed the 
Valentine project under this topic. We have also said that where a public body anticipates 
discussing specific Town Meeting warrant articles, it must specifically list them in its meeting 
notice. See OML 2011-7. However, where a public body is reviewing all articles for a Town 
Meeting warrant, it is not required to list all of the warrant articles on its meeting notice. See 
OML 2012-83. Here, the Committee discussed only one warrant article - the Beautification of 
Mill Pond Park.
We do not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law though with respect to either of 
these two topics because a public body may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the 
topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting. See OML 2017-2; 
OML 2013-87. The day before the September 3 meeting the Town Manager emailed the 
Committee asking them to consider a particular proposal relating to the Riverwalk Project at Mill 
Pond Park. In addition, the chair of the Valentine Property Committee unexpectedly arrived at 
the meeting and wanted to update the Committee on recent work to that property. As such, the 
chair was not required to separately list either project on the meeting notice as they were not 
reasonably anticipated topics. See OML 2015-195; OML 2015-4. While a public body may 
consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the notice if it was not reasonably anticipated 
at least 48 hours before the meeting, we strongly encourage public bodies to postpone discussion 
of topics that were not listed in the meeting notice until the topic may be included in a meeting
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
notice, unless the circumstances demand immediate action by the public body. See OML 2013- 
197; OML 2011-23.
The second complaint concerns the Committee’s failure to respond to the September 9 
Open Meeting Law complaint in the timeframe required by the law. The Committee responded 
to the September complaint by letter dated October 25 - 33 business days after the complaint 
was filed. A public body must respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 business 
days, unless it secures an extension from the Director of the Division of Open Government. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). The Committee acknowledges that it failed to timely 
respond to the complaint. Because the Committee failed to respond to an Open Meeting Law 
complaint within 14 business days, we find that it violated the Open Meeting Law.
Finally, both complaints allege that the September 3 meeting minutes are insufficiently 
detailed where the minutes do not include a list of documents used during the meeting. The 
Open Meeting Law requires that a public body create and maintain accurate minutes of all 
meetings, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, as well as a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). At the time the complaints were filed, the September 3 minutes were draft 
minutes and had not been approved as the final minutes by the Committee. A public body may 
revise draft minutes at any point prior to their approval to correct inaccuracies or add detail. 
Accordingly, because these minutes remained in draft form at the time of the complaints, we find 
that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by creating inaccurate or insufficiently 
detailed minutes. See OML 2014-13; OML 2014-7. We note that the minutes, which were 
approved on October 22, still do not include a list of documents used during the September 3 
meeting but the Committee has agreed to revise the meeting minutes to include such a list.
We must determine whether the violation was, as the complainant urges, an intentional 
one. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body 
or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. An 
intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the 
law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting 
Law. Id. This Office has not issued any determinations that advised the Committee that 
complaints must be responded to within 14 business days. Because we find no evidence that the 
Committee acted with deliberate ignorance of the law and where the Committee had not been 
notified of its obligations prior to the events addressed in this letter, we find that these violations 
were not intentional.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 business days. We order 
immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future 
violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the
4

===PAGE 5===
Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Stephen Morgan
Ashland Community Preservation Committee
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
5
