===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 29, 2015 
OML 2015-18 
Richard Bowen, Esq. 
Law Office of Richard Bowen 
28 Stockbridge Road 
Scituate, MA 02066 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Bowen: 
This office received five related complaints from Mr. Edward Pacewicz, all dated 
September 19, 2014, alleging that the Wareham Planning Board (the "Board") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Mr. Pacewicz originally filed the five related complaints 
with the Board over three dates: May 19, 2014; May 30, 2014; and July 8, 2014. After receiving 
an extension of time from our office, the Board responded to those complaints by letter dated 
September 11, 2014. The complaints allege that the Board (i) created a working group that 
conducted deliberations outside of an open meeting; and (ii) failed to respond to requests for 
meeting minutes. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the original complaints; the Board's response; and the requests for 
further review filed with our office. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body which meets at 
regular intervals to deliberate on matters concerning land use, land regulation, land development, 
planning, zoning, and subdivision control within the Town of Wareham (the "Town"). At issue 
is the creation of the Town's Transfer of Development Rights Bylaw ("TDR" or "the Bylaw"). 
The Bylaw's objectives are to (i) preserve open spaces, historical features, and environmental 
resources; and (ii) revitalize certain areas in the Town. 
The Bylaw was drafted by Attorney Jonathan Witten. Attorney Witten was asked to do 
so by Town Counsel Richard Bowen because of his expertise in land use matters.1 In drafting 
the Bylaw, Attorney Witten engaged in conversations with various citizens who were 
1 For the sake of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
stakeholders in the process. These meetings took place at the suggestion of Mr. Alan Slavin, 
Chair of the Board of Selectmen. However, the Board of Selectmen as a whole did not discuss 
or arrange these meetings, nor did the Planning Board. On one occasion, December 5, 2013, 
Attorney Witten attended a meeting of the Southeastern Regional Planning and Economic 
Development Commission. This meeting was also attended by Board of Selectmen Chair Slavin, 
as well as a Wareham citizen who was interested in the drafting process. Attorney Witten also 
attended one meeting at Wareham Town Hall, on January 21, 2014, concerning the Bylaw. This 
meeting was attended by the Building Commissioner, the Conservation Administrator, the Chair 
of the Planning Board, the Chair of the Zoning Board of Appeals, and Board of Selectmen Chair 
Slavin. During the drafting of the Bylaw, Attorney Witten had multiple telephone conversations 
with Board of Selectmen Chair Slavin, and he participated in one conference call with the 
individuals who were present at the January 21, 2014 meeting. 
The complainant provided our office with a draft copy of the Bylaw. At the bottom, the 
draft Bylaw lists dates on which different iterations of that Bylaw were produced: December 27, 
2013; January 24, 2014; January 28, 2014; February 9, 2014; February 13, 2014; February 27, 
2014; March 17, 2014; March 31, 2014; and April 1, 2014. The final Bylaw was adopted by 
Town Meeting on April 28, 2014. 
On May 6, 2014, Mr. Pacewicz sent a request to the Board seeking agendas and minutes 
for meetings held on each of the dates listed at the bottom of the draft Bylaw. The Board 
responded that no documents existed for these dates. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. A "public body" is defined, in relevant part, as any "multiple-member board, 
commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any 
county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Board created a working group for the purposes of 
making revisions to the Bylaw. As evidence, the complaint points to the dates listed on the 
bottom of the draft Bylaw as the dates on which this alleged working group met. Although 
Attorney Witten sought advice from various people during the process of drafting the Bylaw, 
these meetings did not constitute meetings of a public body. In order for an entity to be a "public 
body" subject to the Open Meeting Law, the entity must be (i) "within" government and not 
excluded from the definition of "public body;" (ii) a body empowered to act collectively; and 
(iii) charged to serve a public purpose. See OML 2010-1. The people with whom Attorney 
Witten spoke were not formally named to a public body or assigned a particular charge. Further, 
they were not empowered to act collectively. See OML 2012-51; OML 2011-42; OML 2010-1. 
There was no set membership, nor was there a quorum requirement. See OML 2012-50; OML 
2011-42. We therefore find that the meetings on December 5, 2013 and January 21, 2014 were 
not meetings of a public body, thus the individuals involved were not required to hold open 
meetings or keep minutes of their discussions. Under the Open Meeting Law, only public bodies 
are required to create meeting minutes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Furthermore, although members of the Board of Selectmen, the Planning Board, and the 
Zoning Board of Appeals participated in some of the meetings at issue, there was no quorum of 
any public body present during the development of the Bylaw. Thus, those bodies were also not 
required to post notice or keep minutes of the meetings at issue. Because we find that no public 
body participated in the development of the Bylaw, we also find that the Board did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law by failing to provide the complainant with minutes as requested. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Mr. Edward Pacewicz 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. BOA, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3 