===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
October 20, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 164  
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Gary P. Howayeck, Esq. 
Assistant Corporation Counsel 
Office of the Corporation Counsel 
City of Fall River 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
 
ghowayeck@fallriverma.gov  
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Howayeck: 
 
This office received complaints from Collin Dias on May 27, 2025, and August 1, 2025, 
alleging that the Fall River Port Authority (the “Port Authority”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The first complaint was originally filed with the Port Authority on 
April 25, and you
1 responded on behalf of the Port Authority by letter dated May 12.2  In the first 
complaint, Mr. Dias alleges that the Port Authority has held multiple meetings under the name of 
the Fall River Line Pier and has not posted notice of the meetings or created minutes of them.  
The second complaint was filed with the Port Authority on May 15, and you responded on 
September 2.  In the second complaint, Mr. Dias alleges that the Port Authority did not meet to 
discuss the first complaint.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Port Authority violated the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Port 
Authority’s responses to the complaints, and the complainant’s requests for further review.  We 
also reviewed the city ordinance establishing the Port Authority, and the City of Fall River 
website.  We read a newspaper article regarding appointment of members to the Port Authority 
and to the Fall River Line Pier, Inc.
3 and the report of the State Auditor’s audit of Fall River Line 
 
1 For clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
2 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2025. 
3 “Fall River Port Authority, pier boards haven’t met in years.  Here’s what they must do ASAP,” The Herald News, 
October 19, 2021. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Pier, Inc., issued on April 16, 2025.  We reviewed the business entity summary and 2024 annual 
report of the Fall River Line Pier, Inc. on the website of the Secretary of the Commonwealth, 
Corporations Division.  Finally, we reviewed minutes of meetings of the City Council held in 
June, July and August 2021, and minutes of five meetings held by the Fall River Line Pier, Inc. 
in 2021 and 2022.4   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Port Authority was established by ordinance of the 
City of Fall River.  The ordinance provides that the Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, 
is to appoint “a board of seven members to be known as the ‘Port Authority.’”  The ordinance 
further provides that the Port Authority “shall act in an advisory capacity to the Mayor and City 
Council in regard to all matters concerning the port of the City, both in regard to the construction 
and operation of the state pier and in all other affairs concerning such port.”   
 
The Port Authority is included on a list of Boards and Commissions on the City of Fall 
River website.
5  According to the Port Authority’s page, “Regular meetings are held the ? of 
each month at 0:00 p.m.,  ? Floor  , One Government Center, Room ? , Fall River, MA 02722.”  
No meeting notices are available through the Port Authority’s page on the municipal website.  As 
of the date of issuance of this letter of determination, the City of Fall River website lists four 
members on the Port Authority.  One of these members reportedly was appointed in 1996.  As 
described more fully below, the other three current members were appointed in 2021.   
 
At the City Council’s meeting on July 13, 2021, four candidates were considered for 
appointment to the Port Authority to join the then one existing member.  The City Council voted 
to appoint one of the four candidates.  Neither approval nor rejection carried as to the other three, 
and as a result, those appointments went into effect automatically.  According to a media report 
on October 19, 2021, the Port Authority had not met for “an untold number of years” but the 
newly constituted, five-member Port Authority was to meet the following Tuesday, at which 
time the members would be appointed to the board of the Fall River Line Pier (the “Pier 
Board”).
6   
 
Fall River Line Pier, Inc. is a nonprofit corporation that was organized in Massachusetts 
in 1946.  It was chartered to lease a state pier from the Commonwealth to provide receiving, 
storing and forwarding of freight and merchandise.  Fall River Line Pier, Inc. coordinates the 
day-to-day operations, security, and general maintenance of the Fall River State Pier.  All current 
members of the Port Authority, as listed on the City of Fall River website, are officers of the Pier 
Board.  The Pier Board is required to meet at least annually.  Minutes of the Pier Board 
document that a quorum of the Port Authority, four or more members, attended meetings of the 
 
4 The minutes, of meetings held on November 4, 2021, January 4, 2022, January 13, 2022, February 1, 2022, and 
February 15, 2022, were provided upon request to the State Auditor, who referenced them in her audit report, dated 
April 16, 2025.  According to the audit report, the Fall River Line Pier was not able to produce minutes of six board 
meetings held during the audit period, July 1, 2020, to June 30, 2023.   
5 See https://www.fallriverma.gov/government/boards___commissions/port_authority.php. 
6 One of the five members of the Port Authority as constituted in late 2021, Dawn Surette, is not included on the list 
of members available on the city’s website.  We were not able to determine when she ceased to be a member of the 
Port Authority.     
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Pier Board during at least three meetings in 2021 and 2022.7  During these three meetings, the 
Pier Board discussed, among other topics: a draft MassDevelopment agreement regarding 
management of the pier; proof of insurance from pier tenants; the rate to be charged to pier 
tenants for electricity; a security plan for the pier; and a contract with consultants to manage day 
to day tasks of pier operation.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Port Authority i s a public body and does not fall within the Connelly 
exception. 
 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to a public body, which is defined, in relevant part, 
as “a multiple member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or 
legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, 
appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.   
 
For a multiple-member entity to be deemed a public body subject to the Open Meeting 
Law, it must satisfy three factors: 
 
1. The entity must be “within” government and not excluded from the definition of “public 
body”; 
2. The entity must be a “body” empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a “public purpose.” 
 
See OML 2024-118; 2017-120; OML 2010-1.
8  
 
In its response to the complaint, the Port Authority does not argue that it fails the above 
three-part test or that it has ceased to operate as a body.  The municipal website lists the Port 
Authority as a board or commission of the City of Fall River and has language regarding its 
meeting schedule (although the time and place are blank).  Notwithstanding these indications that 
the Port Authority is a public body, the Port Authority argues that its meetings are not subject to 
the Open Meeting Law because it is “purely an advisory board to the Mayor and /or Council,” 
and therefore falls within a judicially created exception to the Open Meeting Law’s definition of 
“public body,” established in Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991).  
Under the Connelly exception, where an individual public official, who themself is not subject to 
the Open Meeting Law, creates a committee to advise them on a decision that they have the sole 
authority to make, that committee is not subject to the Open Meeting Law.  Id., at 235.  See also, 
e.g., OML 2025-86 (task force fit within Connelly exception where university chancellor had 
sole authority to recommend revisions to land use policy); OML 2019-71 (working group fit 
 
7 Further complicating matters, City Council President Pam Laliberte attended the February 1, 2022, meeting “as a 
member of the Port Authority in her capacity of [sic] City Council President.”  In calculating the number of Port 
Authority members attending meetings of the board of the Fall River Line Pier, we have not included City Council 
President Laliberte. 
8 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
within Connelly exception where it only possessed authority to make recommendations to the 
Mayor).   
 
We find that the Connelly exception does not apply to the Port Authority.  The Port 
Authority was not created by the Mayor to advise him on a matter that he had the sole authority 
to decide.  Rather, the Port Authority is a creature of Fall River’s city ordinances.  It was created 
to “act in an advisory capacity to the Mayor and City Council in regard to all matters concerning 
the port of the City. . . .”  Fall River City Ordinance § 82-33 (emphasis added).  See also OML 
2016-33 (“Because the Work Group was not created solely by the Town Administrator and its 
charge was not something solely within the Town Administrator’s authority, the Connelly 
exception does not apply.”)  Therefore, we conclude that the Port Authority is a public body 
subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Havi
ng found that the Port Authority is a public body, we next consider whether the Port 
Authority violated the Open Meeting Law when a quorum of its members participated in 
meetings of the Pier Board without posting notice or maintaining minutes of meetings of the Port 
Authority.   
 
Except when convened in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open 
to the
 public.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  Public bodies must post notice of every meeting (except in 
an emergency) at least 48 hours prior to the meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Public bodies must also create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, “setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a 
public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The 
Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly as “an oral or written communication through 
any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction; ....”  Id.  
 
The Port Authority agrees with the complainant that “any meeting held by [the Pier 
Board] with its current membership can potentially be a meeting of the Fall River Port Authority 
with its current membership.”  Moreover, the Port Authority’s jurisdiction, which includes 
“operation of the state pier” overlaps significantly with that of Pier Board, which includes 
coordination of the pier’s day-to-day operations.  Whatever the jurisdiction of the Pier Board, 
however, there would be no violation of the Open Meeting Law by the Port Authority if its 
members refrained from discussing matters within the Port Authority’s jurisdiction when they 
attended gatherings of the Pier Board.  After all, the Open Meeting Law does not impose a 
blanket prohibition against a quorum of members of a public body being in the same place at the 
same time.  Indeed, the Open Meeting Law's definition of “meeting” specifically excludes 
“attendance by a quorum of a public body at a public or private gathering, including a conference 
or training program or a media, social or other event, so long as the members do not deliberate.”  
G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  See also OML 2023-227.   Insofar as an assembly of members of the 
nonprofit Pier Board constitutes a “private gathering,” members of the Port Authority may join 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
it, so long as there occurs no discussion of matters within the Port Authority’s jurisdiction.  
 
Here, however, a quorum of the Port Authority attended meetings of the Pier Board and 
discussed business within the jurisdiction of the Port Authority, including but not limited to pier 
tenants’ electrical rates, pier tenants’ insurance, and contracting with a consultant to manage day 
to day tasks of the pier.  These topics were “matters concerning the port of the City, both in 
regard to the construction and operation of the state pier,” i.e., the jurisdiction of the Port 
Authority as established by city ordinance.  Therefore, for purposes of the Open Meeting Law, at 
least three meetings of the Pier Board
9 also constituted meetings of the Port Authority.  When a 
quorum of the Port Authority attended these meetings and engaged in discussion of matters 
within the Port Authority’s jurisdiction, they should have done so in accordance with the Open 
Meeting Law, including by posting notice of the meetings as meetings of the Port Authority, 
ensuring the meetings were open to the public (unless a proper executive session was held), and 
by creating and maintaining minutes.  We find that in failing to do so, the Port Authority violated 
the Law.
10 
 
II. The Port Authority violated the
  Open Meeting Law when it failed to meet to 
review the allegations of the first Open Meeting Law complaint. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that wit hin 14 business days after receiving a complaint, 
a public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if 
appropriate; and send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action 
taken.  940 CMR 29.05(5).  A public body must review a complaint before authorizing legal 
counsel to respond on its behalf.  See OML Declination 8-6-25 (Middlefield Select Board); OML 
2017-132; OML 2011-6.  Once a public body has reviewed a complaint during a meeting, its 
decision to simply refer the complaint, rather than discuss its substance, is the public body's 
prerogative.  See OML 2019-40; OML 2017-96.  
 
Here, the Port Authority received the complaint on April 25.  Member Michael Lund 
referred the matter to legal counsel on April 28.  Counsel responded, on behalf of the Port 
Authority, on May 12.  There is no information before us that suggests that the Port Authority 
reviewed the complaint during a meeting prior to counsel responding on its behalf.  Therefore, 
we find that the Port Authority violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
  
 
9 Meetings of November 4, 2021, January 13, 2022, and February 15, 2022. 
10 Our finding is dictated by the unique facts of this case, to wit, a quorum of a public body attending meetings of a 
private entity with overlapping membership and overlapping jurisdiction.  We have explained that the Open Meeting 
Law does not prohibit a quorum of one public body from serving on another public body, see OML 2025-118; 2016-
119; however, where membership of two public bodies of the same municipality overlaps, jurisdiction is unlikely to 
overlap as it does here.  It is true that matters within a subcommittee’s jurisdiction almost certainly fall within a 
parent body’s jurisdiction, and we have said that a quorum of a parent body may sit on a subcommittee.  However, 
the subcommittee is a creature of the parent body, and only matters within the subcommittee’s jurisdiction may be 
discussed at a meeting of the subcommittee.  See OML 2016-119; OML 2013-155.  Moreover, where members of a 
parent body sit on a subcommittee, the subcommittee has posted notice and opened the meeting to the public, as 
required by the Open Meeting Law, even if the parent body has not.  Here, where a meeting proceeds under the 
auspices of a nonprofit corporation, there is no guarantee that notice of the meeting will be posted or that the 
meeting will even be open to the public.        
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons explained above, we find that the Port Authority is a public body that is 
not subje
ct to the Connelly exception, and as a result, it violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
failed to post notice of its meetings or to prepare minutes of its meetings.  We order the Port 
Authority, within 60 days of the date of this letter, to create minutes for its meetings in 
accordance with the guidance herein and that it certify to our office that it has done so.  We 
acknowledge the difficulty in creating past meeting minutes months or years after the meetings 
went forward.  Nevertheless, we order the Port Authority to create minutes for its past meetings 
to the best of its ability, through whatever means are available, including documents, and the 
memories and notes of the attendees.  See, e.g., OML 2025-27 (ordering Monson American 
Rescue Plan Act Committee to create and approve minutes for meetings held over a period of 
approximately three years); OML 2020-69 (ordering a school committee to create and approve 
minutes for meetings of a subcommittee held over a three-year period).  Finally, we order 
immediate and future compliance with the Law’s requirements.  
 
We now c
onsider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Port Authority.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Collin Dias (via email  
 Fall River Clerk (via email: city_clerk@fallriverma.gov) 
Carla H. Dutra (via email: Cdutra@fallriverma.gov) 
Port Authority Board (via email: portauthorityboard@fallriverma.org)  
 
  
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
