===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 13, 2016 
OML 2016-173 
Brian Riley, Esq. 
KP Law LLP 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
This office received three complaints from Patrick Higgins on October 6, alleging 
that the Freetown Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaints were originally filed with the Board on or about 
September 20, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, in a letter dated October 4. In 
his complaints, Mr. Higgins alleges that the amended notices for the Board's August 22; 
September 7; and September 14 meetings failed to list the date and time that the original 
notices were posted.2 
After reviewing the complaints, the Board's response, the request for further review 
filed with our office, and the original and amended notices for Board meetings held on 
August 22; September 7; and September 14, we resolve this complaint by informal action 
in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a). We find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. 
The Town's official notice posting location is the Town website. The Board held 
meetings on August 22; September 7; and September 14. On August 18, the Board posted 
notice of its August 22 meeting, and then posted an amended version later that day. On 
September 2, the Board posted notice of its September 7 meeting, and then posted an 
amended version later that day. On September 12, the Board notice of its September 14 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 Additionally, Mr. Higgins alleges that the Board failed to timely approve its meeting minutes. On 
November 30, Mr. Higgins withdrew this allegation. We note that the Board had approved a backlog of 
meeting minutes two weeks prior to Mr. Higgins' filing the complaints. We commend the Board's efforts to 
comply with the Open Meeting Law. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
meeting, and then posted an amended version on September 13. All of these amended 
notices, identified as such, were date-stamped at the time of posting and posted alongside 
the original notices, which were also date-stamped. 
The complainant alleges that the amended notices should have included the date 
and time that the original notices were posted. The Attorney General's regulations require 
that the "date and time that the notice is posted shall be conspicuously recorded thereon or 
therewith." 940 CMR 29.03(b). Our office has advised public bodies that if a notice is 
revised, the revised notice must conspicuously record on or with the notice both the date 
and time the original notice was posted as well as the date and time the last revision was 
posted. See OML 2013-44.3 The Board's original and amended notices were each date-
stamped and posted to the website. The original notices were not removed, but remained 
posted with the amended notices. Therefore, the Board complied with this posting 
requirement because, by being posted with the original notices, the amended notices 
recorded the date and time the original notices were posted. Accordingly, we find no 
violation with respect to this allegation. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending 
with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if 
you have any questions. 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
Freetown Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. e. 30A, 
§ 23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of 
receipt of a final order. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
http://www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 