===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
January 17, 2020 
OML 2020 - 1
Katherine Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Feodoroff:
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan, on November 12, 2019, alleging 
that the Ashland Development Liaison Group (the “Group”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Group on October 7 and you 
responded on behalf of the Group by letter dated October 25.1 In his complaint, Mr. Morgan 
alleges that the Assistant Town Manager, who seemed to be listed as a member of the Group in 
draft meeting minutes for its September 18 meeting, had not submitted an Open Meeting Law 
certification. Mr. Morgan alleges, in the alternative, that if the Assistant Town Manager was not 
a member of the Group, the draft September 18 minutes were inaccurate in listing her as a 
member.
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
and find that the Group did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. According to the 
Attorney General’s Regulations, within two weeks after receipt of the Open Meeting Law 
materials, which include the Open Meeting Law, the Attorney General’s regulations and the 
Attorney General’s Guide to the Open Meeting Law, local public body members shall certify, on 
the form prescribed by the Attorney General, receipt of such materials. 940 CMR 29.04(1). The 
municipal clerk shall maintain the signed certification for each such person, indicating the date 
the person received the materials. Id; see also OML 2019-28.2 Here, the Group has explained to 
us that the Assistant Town Manager was never part of the Group. She merely attended the 
September 18 meeting to give information to the Group. We therefore find that the Assistant 
Town Manager was not required to submit an Open Meeting Law certification.
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2019. The Group received an extension of time from the Attorney 
General until October 25 to reply to this and another complaint.
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law.

===PAGE 2===
The complaint also alleges that the draft September 18 minutes were inaccurate, because 
they listed the Assistant Town Manager as a member of the Group. The Open Meeting Law 
requires a public body to “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Since the September 18 meeting minutes Mr. Morgan alleges were 
inaccurate were in draft form and have now been corrected to make clear that the Assistant Town 
Manager was not a Group member, we do not find that the Group violated the Open Meeting 
Law. See OML 2012-111 (no Open Meeting Law Violation found where insufficiently detailed 
draft minutes were amended to meet Open Meeting Law standards before being approved).
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Group. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerelv,
^4^ tz,_
Sarah Chase
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Stephen Morgan
Ashland Development Liaison Group
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
2
