===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 13, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 79 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Hussain Hamdan 
Chair and Town of Hawley Representative 
Hawlemont Regional School Committee  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Hamdan: 
This office received a complaint from Flannery Geier on February 28, 2022, alleging that 
the Hawlemont School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on January 6, and you 
responded to Ms. Geier by email dated January 20.1, 2 In her complaint, Ms. Geier alleges that the 
Committee failed to create and approve meeting minutes for all open sessions held from July 15, 
2020, through December 6, 2021. Ms. Geier also alleges that all Committee members have failed 
to complete the required Open Meeting Law complaint form.  
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 
29.07(2)(a), and find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely 
approve minutes and failing to complete Open Meeting Law certification forms. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, 
and the complainant’s request for further review. We emailed with you in March of 2022.  
DISCUSSION 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes must be reviewed 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 We remind the Committee that the Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “shall, within 14 business days 
of receipt of a complaint, send a copy of the complaint to the attorney general and notify  the attorney general of any 
remedial action taken.” G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); see also 940 CMR 29.05(5). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). “Timely manner” means “within the next 
three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can 
show good cause for further delay.” See 940 CMR 29.11; OML 2018-48.3 Whenever possible, 
we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2021-91. 
 The Committee concedes that it did not timely create and approve meeting minutes for 
the second half of 2020 and all of 2021 because the Committee did not have staff available to 
create the meeting minutes. The responsibility for complying with the Open Meeting Law rests 
with public bodies and members of such bodies, not with individual public employees, such as 
administrative staff. See OML 2018-105. If staff resources are not available to create minutes for 
a public body to approve, then public body members must take on this responsibility to ensure 
compliance with the Law. See OML 2018-111. Accordingly, we find that the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely approve meeting minutes for a year and a 
half. In response to the complaint, the Committee has hired a staff person who has begun the 
creation of the missing minutes.  
 Finally, the Open Meeting Law requires that “within 2 weeks of qualification for office, 
all persons serving on a public body shall certify, on a form prescribed by the attorney general, 
the receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, regulations promulgated pursuant to section 25 
and a copy of the educational materials prepared by the attorney general explaining the open 
meeting law and its application[.]” G.L. c. 30A § 20(h). “The certification shall be evidence that 
the member of a public body has read and understands the requirements of the open meeting law 
and the consequences of violating it.” Id. The Open Meeting Law regulations further define the 
educational materials that must be provided, including a copy of each Open Meeting Law 
determination issued to the public body within the last five years in which our office found a 
violation. 940 CMR 29.04(1). Finally, the regulations clarify that “[a]n individual serving on 
multiple public bodies must sign a certification for each public body on which he or she 
serves[,]” and that public body members “must sign a new certification upon reelection or 
reappointment to the public body.” 940 CMR 29.04 (4) and (5). Despite multiple requests from 
our office, the Committee has not provided copies of certification forms for any of its members. 
We therefore find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to timely approve minutes and failing to complete Open Meeting Law certification 
forms. We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law 
and caution the Committee that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future 
may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. We order the Committee 
to create and approve meeting minutes for all outstanding meetings to the best of its ability, 
through whatever means are available, including recordings and the notes and recollections of 
the attendees. Within 90 days of receipt of this letter, the Committee shall certify to our office 
that it has complied with this order to create and approve the missing meeting minutes.  
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 In addition, we order all Committee members to review the Open Meeting Law, the 
Attorney General’s regulations, and the Open Meeting Law Guide. We order these same 
members to certify, on the form found on our website, that they have reviewed these materials, 
and that they understand the requirements of the Open Meeting Law and the consequences of 
violating it.4 These certifications should be filed, within 14 days of receipt of this letter, with the 
Mohawk Trail/Hawlemont Regional School District’s Superintendent. A copy of each 
certification form should also be emailed to our office (openmeeting@state.ma.us), within 14 
days of receipt of this letter, to demonstrate compliance with this order. 
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Flannery Geier (via e-mail:  
 Mohawk Trail/Hawlemont Regional School District Superintendent Sheryl Stanton  
 (via e-mail:  
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
4 The Open Meeting Law materials, and certification form, may be found at: https://www.mass.gov/service-
details/complete-public-body-member-certification 
