===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
March 3, 2017 
OML 2017-33 
Edmund R. St. John, III, Esq. 
2 Center Street 
P.O. Box 228 
Adams, MA 01220 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney St. John: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on February 14, 2017 
alleging that the Adams Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on 
December 17, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated December 23. 
The complaint alleges that the notice for the Board's December 7 meeting lacked sufficient 
detail because it did not contain i) the names and street addresses of the establishments to 
be considered for license renewals, ii) the date and time of posting by the Town Clerk, iii) 
the meeting location address, iv) the pmpose for executive session, and v) any topics under 
the heading "Announcements & Good of the Order." 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to list in its December 7 meeting notice the specific license renewals and 
establishments it planned to discuss. We find no evidence, however, that the Board 
violated the law in the other ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint, the Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our 
office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notice of and open session minutes 
from the Board's December 7 meeting. Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on 
February 16, 2017.2 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On December 5, the Board posted notice with the 
Town Clerk for a meeting to be held on Wednesday, December 7 at 7:00 P.M. The 
Board's Attorney, Edmund St. John, provided this office with a copy of the notice that was 
posted and stamped by the Town Clerk; the date and time of posting was December 5 at 
2:41 P.M. The notice listed the location of the meeting as "Town Hall, Meeting Room, 1st 
Floor, Adams, MA 01220." The notice also listed thirteen topics, including "New 
Business," "Announcements & Good of the Order," and "Executive Session." Under New 
Business, one of the topics the Board planned to discuss was "License Renewal 
Approvals." The notice did not include a list of the various license renewals that the Board 
planned to discuss or the specific establishments that were seeking renewal. 
"Announcements & Good of the Order" did not include any description of what the Board 
anticipated discussing during this portion of the meeting. Finally, the meeting notice 
included "Executive Session" but did not identify the specific purpose the Board intended 
to invoke. 
The December 7 meeting was held as planned. The Board discussed thirteen types 
of license renewals. During Announcements & Good of the Order, Board member Joseph 
Nowak announced that the Susan B. Anthony Centennial Celebration Committee was 
recruiting members and thanked several specific individuals for setting up the Christmas 
Village display in Town Hall. Board member John Duval extended thanks to Board Chair 
Jeffrey Snoonian for sending a letter to the Executive Office of Energy and Environmental 
Affairs regarding the Berkshire Scenic Rail and further thanked a local community bank, 
the Police Department and Lions' Club for holiday events. The Board did not enter 
executive session. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must 
be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and 
place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will 
be discussed. Id. The list of topics shall have "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise 
the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We 
generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the 
public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's 
discussion. See OML 2015-35.3 
The complaint alleges that the December 7 meeting notice concerning the topic of 
license renewals lacked sufficient detail in that it did not provide "the names and addresses 
of the licenses to be considered for approval or denial." We agree that the Board should 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
have identified the establishments with the specific types of license renewals it planned to 
discuss at the December 7 meeting. Although including street addresses may oftentimes 
be useful to the public, such detailed specificity is not necessary if the Board sufficiently 
identifies the establishments with the specific types of license renewals. The Board 
acknowledges that the notice was not sufficiently detailed with respect to the topic of 
License Renewal Approvals, and informed our office that it will include the specific 
license renewal requests as well as names and addresses of establishments in future 
notices. We commend the Board's efforts to ensure future compliance and encourage the 
Board to include addresses in its meeting notices. 
The complaint also alleges that the notice was insufficiently specific because it 
failed to provide the address of the meeting location. The notice indicated that the meeting 
was to be held in the Meeting Room on the first floor of the Adams Town Hall. The Board 
stated in its response that there is only one such location in Adams. We have stated in past 
determinations that a public body should provide the street address of a meeting location, 
where possible. See OML 2016-38. However, we have also concluded that where a 
complaint does not allege that any member of the public was actually mislead by the 
meeting notice at issue, any error that may exist is harmless. See OML 2016-77. Here, the 
complaint does not allege that any members of the public were confused by the notice at 
issue. Accordingly, we remind the Board of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
See OML 2016-146. 
With respect to the remaining allegations, we find that the Board did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law. The complaint alleges that the meeting notice did not contain "the 
date and time it was posted by the municipal clerk." The date and time that the notice is 
posted must be conspicuously recorded on or with the notice itself. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
Attorney St. John provided this office with a copy of the notice that was posted and 
stamped by the Town Clerk; the date and time of posting was December 5 at 2:41 P.M. 
The complaint further alleges that there "are no specifics for the" executive session 
topic listed on the notice. Because the Board did not convene in executive session on 
December 7, we find no violation with respect to the sufficiency of the executive session 
topic listed on that notice. When a public body does not actually deliberate on a noticed 
topic, the public body cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to that topic, 
even if it would have been insufficiently detailed had the public body proceeded with its 
deliberation. See OML 2015-63; OML 2014-81. Attorney St. John indicated that when 
the Board plans to meet in executive session the notice will identify the statutory citation 
the Board intends to rely upon for convening in executive session. If the Board does not 
intend to enter executive session, it should consider removing that topic from its meeting 
notice. 
Finally, we understand that the topic "Announcements & Good of the Order" is 
simply a time reserved for Board members to express comments, recognize and thank 
community members, as well as town employees, and notify residents of upcoming events. 
Such announcements are generally spontaneous and not pieces of business that Board 
3 
===PAGE 4===
members anticipate discussing or otherwise within the Board's jurisdiction. See G.L. c. 
3 OA, § 20(b). As such, we find that specific announcements do not need to be listed on the 
meeting notice. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to list in its December 7 meeting notice the specific license renewals and 
establishments it planned to discuss. Moreover, a public body should provide the street 
address of a meeting location, where possible. Here, the complaint does not allege that any 
members of the public were confused by the notice at issue. Therefore, we find any error 
that may exist to be harmless but remind the Board of its obligations under the Open 
Meeting Law. With respect to the remaining allegations, we find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law. We order the Board's immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 