===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
June 18, 2012 
OML 2012 — 48 
David Broschart, Chairman 
West Brookfield Zoning Board of Appeals 
Town Hall 
2 East Main Street 
P.O. Box 372 
West Brookfield, MA 01585 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Broschart: 
This office received a complaint from Ms. Josephine Turturro, dated May 10, 2012, 
alleging that the West Brookfield Zoning Board of Appeals (the "Board") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or 
about April 9, 2012, and the Board responded to the original complaint by letter dated April 18, 
2012. In her complaint, Ms. Turturro alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
during a March 13, 2012 meeting by denying members of the public the opportunity to address 
the Board and by refusing to accept a petition presented by members of the public. The 
complaint also alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to remedy a 
situation in which members of the public claimed to be unable to hear meeting deliberations. 
In resolving this complaint, we reviewed the April 9, 2012 complaint filed with the 
Board; the Board's April 18, 2012 response; and the May 10, 2012 complaint filed with this 
office. Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
because the Law does not require that a public body allow members of the public to participate 
during meetings, and because the Open Meeting Law does not address whether or not public 
bodies must accept petitions or agenda topics submitted by members of the public. Finally, for 
the reasons discussed herein, we are unable to resolve the allegation that members of the public 
were unable to hear the meeting proceedings. 
C7) 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. On March 
13, 2012, the Board met to discuss special permit requirements related to a proposed solar 
industrial facility. At the meeting, members of the public attempted to present a petition 
regarding the proposed facility to the Board, but the Board refused to accept the petition. When 
members of the public attempted to address the Board, the Chairman denied them the 
opportunity to speak. 
The complaint states that the meeting was crowded and "in a large [h]all with no speaker 
system." Multiple meeting attendees claimed that they could not hear portions of deliberations 
taking place between Board members. Although members of the public suggested moving the 
meeting to a different conference room in the building, the Board declined to do so because the 
alternative conference room was scheduled to be occupied at that time. Ms. Turturro states that 
some attendees "were offended and left." In the Board's response to this Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Chairman explained that microphones and amplification were made available at a 
subsequent public hearing regarding the proposed facility, ensuring that all attendees could hear. 
DISCUSSION 
Ms. Turturro's complaint raises three issues. The first is whether the Open Meeting Law 
requires a public body to allow members of the public to participate during a meeting. The 
second is whether the Open Meeting Law requires a public body to accept a petition presented by 
members of the public during a meeting. The third is whether the Board met its obligation under 
the Open Meeting Law to ensure that members of the public were able to hear its deliberations 
during its meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to allow public participation 
during a meeting. The law states that "[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body 
without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(f). Because the Law permits the chair of a public body to determine who may 
address the Board during a meeting, the Chairman of the Board had discretion to deny members 
of the public the opportunity to speak at the March 13, 2012 meeting. Although the chair of a 
public body determines who may address the public body at an open meeting, we encourage 
public bodies to allow public participation during meetings whenever reasonably possible. See  
OML 2012-23.1  
In addition, the Open Meeting Law does not address whether or not public bodies must 
accept petitions presented by members of the public during meetings. Therefore, we find that the 
Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it refused to accept the petition presented by 
members of the public at the March 13, 2012 meeting. 
Lastly, the Open Meeting Law requires that a meeting of a public body be open and 
accessible so that members of the public may observe and hear the body's deliberations. See  
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). The complaint states that, at the March 13, 2012 meeting, "The ZBA 
Board were [sic] sitting at a [t]able in front of the [h]all . . . and we could not hear the [m]eeting 
I  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
2 
===PAGE 3===
that was taking place between them." In the absence of any video or audio recording of the 
meeting, we are unable to assess the validity of this allegation. However, we note that public 
bodies must take steps to ensure that their deliberations can be heard by those in attendance. We 
are encouraged by the Board's statement that, in the future, it will "take steps to assure that 
members of the public in attendance at a public meeting are able to hear what is being said by the 
Board members and persons addressing the Board." In order to accomplish this goal, the Board 
proposes "having members of the public move closer to the speakers/presenters, using 
microphones and an amplified system, moving to another room, or requiring speakers to face the 
audience." If followed, we believe these steps will promote transparency by ensuring public 
access to the body's deliberations. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this 
letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
) 
- 
Amy Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Josephine Turturro 
3 