===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.m ass .go v/ago 
November 2, 2015 
OML 2015-165 
Jesse Allyn Bell, Assistant Director 
Nantucket Islands Land Bank 
22 Broad Street 
Nantucket, MA 02554 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Assistant Director Bell: 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty, dated September 30, alleging that 
the Nantucket Islands Land Bank Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on 
September 18, and the Commission responded by letter dated September 28. In his complaint, 
Mr. Beaty alleges that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) posting notice for 
a meeting fewer than 48 hours in advance; and (ii) providing insufficient detail in a notice 
regarding an anticipated executive session. 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action, in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2). We find that, while the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to post notice at least 48 hours prior to a meeting, the Commission took appropriate 
remedial action to address this violation. We also find that the Commission provided sufficient 
detail in its notice regarding the anticipated executive session at issue. 
The Commission held a meeting at 4:00 P.M. on Tuesday, September 8, the day after 
Labor Day. Notice for this meeting was posted at approximately 10:00 A.M. the previous 
Friday. The Commission therefore failed to post notice of the meeting at least 48 hours in 
advance, excluding the Monday holiday. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). After receiving the present Open 
Meeting Law complaint, the Commission acknowledged its violation and held a properly noticed 
meeting on September 28. During the September 28 meeting, the Commission again discussed 
the topics that were the subject of the September 8 meeting and repeated all votes that took place 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
during the September 8 meeting. We find that this was appropriate remedial action to address 
the violation at issue, and we order no additional relief. See OML 2015-118.2 
The complaint also alleges that an item on the Commission's September 8 meeting notice 
was not sufficiently specific. The meeting notice listed an anticipated executive session to 
discuss "Real Estate Acquisition," with no further detail given. A public body must identify in 
its meeting notice the specific property it intends to discuss in executive session under G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(6), if doing so would not compromise the purpose for which the executive session 
was called. See OML 2015-97; OML 2014-97; OML 2012-52. Here, the Commission believed 
that identifying the specific property would have compromised the purpose for the executive 
session. The Commission discussed a prospective real estate purchase, and reasonably believed 
that disclosure of specific information regarding the property, such as its address, could have 
adversely affected the Commission's negotiating position.3 Therefore, the Commission was 
entitled to withhold the identity of the property at issue, and we find that the Open Meeting Law 
was not violated in this regard. See OML 2015-153. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
letter does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ronald Beaty 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. e. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 The Commission stated that it will indicate on meeting notices in the future the specific section of the Open 
Meeting Law being invoked to justify a particular executive session. 
2 