===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 22, 2016 
OML 2016-115 
Lisa L. Mead, Esq. 
Blatman, Bobrowski, Mead & Talerman, LLC 
30 Green Street 
Newburyport, MA 01950 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Mead: 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan, dated May 25, alleging that the 
Ashland Capital Improvement Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on April 7, and 
the Committee responded by letter dated April 29. In his complaint, Mr. Morgan alleges that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) posting an insufficiently detailed meeting 
notice, (ii) failing to include in the minutes of its March 7 meeting a list of all documents used at 
that meeting, (iii) discussing an anticipated topic that was not listed on a meeting notice, and (iv) 
failing to follow proper procedure in responding to an Open Meeting Law complaint.2 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response, and 
the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notices and minutes of 
Committee meetings held on April 4 and 6. Finally, we reviewed the minutes of the 
Committee's March 7 meeting. 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a seven-member public body of which 
the complainant is a member. On March 30, the Committee posted notice of a meeting to be 
held on April 4. The notice listed the heading "New Business," although nothing was listed 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 The complaint also contains allegations that, even if proven true, would not constitute violations of the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Committee did not agree on the 
content of the meeting notice at issue, and that the documents used at a meeting were not made part of "the public 
record." Because these allegations do not implicate the Open Meeting Law, we decline to review them. See OML 
Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
under this heading. Under "Old Business," the notice stated that the Committee would hold a 
revote on a "Bi-law [sic] change request from the 3-7 meeting." The notice made no mention of 
an Open Meeting Law complaint that had been filed by the complainant on March 23. 
The Committee held its April 4 meeting as planned. During the portion of the meeting 
reserved for the discussion of the "Bi-law [sic] change request from the 3-7 meeting," the 
Committee discussed taking a new vote on a bylaw topic first raised during the Committee's 
March 7 meeting. The complainant stated that the Committee should take a revote after 
discussion of his Open Meeting Law complaint filed with the Committee on March 23. Despite 
this statement, the Committee held a revote and approved the bylaw. The Committee also 
discussed scheduling a future meeting to consider the March 23 Open Meeting Law complaint. 
During this same meeting, the Committee also approved the minutes of its March 7 meeting. 
The March 7 meeting minutes include a list of documents used at that meeting. 
On April 4, the Committee posted notice of a meeting to take place on April 6. This 
notice listed one anticipated discussion topic— "Go over CIC OML Complaint and our 
response." The Committee held its April 6 meeting as planned. During this meeting, the 
Committee discussed the Open Meeting Law complaint filed by Mr. Morgan on March 23. On 
April 7, the Committee responded by letter to the March 23 complaint. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post a meeting notice 48 hours in 
advance of a meeting and include "the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member 
of the public could read the topic and understand what the nature of the public body's discussion 
will be. See OML 2016-38; OML 2015-74.3 
Here, the complaint alleges that the April 4 notice topic, "Bi-law change request from the 
3-7 meeting," lacked sufficient detail. The complaint alleges that the notice should have 
identified the specific bylaw under consideration, along with a description of the proposed 
changes. We find that the Committee complied with the law's requirements. The topic was 
sufficiently detailed to notify members of the public to that the Committee would be discussing a 
change to its bylaws. See OML 2016-94. 
The complaint also alleges that the March 7 meeting minutes approved during the April 4 
meeting lack a list of the documents the Committee used during the March 7 meeting. See G.L. 
c. 3 OA, § 22(a) ("A public body shall create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, 
including .. .a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting[.]") Because the March 7 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attomey General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
meeting minutes do, in fact, contain a list of documents used at that meeting, we find no 
violation of the law.4 
During the April 4 meeting, the Committee discussed scheduling a meeting to review and 
respond to the Open Meeting Law complaint filed on March 23. The complaint alleges that this 
discussion violated the Open Meeting Law because the issue of the March 23 Open Meeting Law 
complaint was not listed on the meeting agenda. It is clear from our review of the April 4 
meeting minutes that the chair did not anticipate substantively discussing this issue prior to the 
meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2016-88. We note further that scheduling discussions 
are not "deliberation" for the purposes of the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. We 
therefore find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this regard. 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the Committee violated the law by revoting on the 
bylaw during the April 4 meeting without first responding to the complainant's March 23 Open 
Meeting Law complaint. The Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days after 
receiving an Open Meeting Law complaint, a public body shall review the complaint's 
allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the 
complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. 940 CMR 29.05(4); G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(b). The public body shall simultaneously notify the complainant that it has sent such 
materials to the Attorney General and shall provide the complainant with a copy of the 
description of any remedial action taken. 940 CMR 29.05(4). Here, the Committee complied 
with the law's requirements by reviewing the complaint during its April 6 meeting and 
responding the next day. This occurred within 14 business days of the complaint being filed 
with the Committee. We therefore find no violation with respect to this allegation.5 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
cc: Stephen Morgan 
Ashland Capital Improvement Committee 
4 There may have been some confusion between the parties regarding the Committee's obligations under the Open 
Meeting Law with regard to documents used during a meeting. The Open Meeting Law does not require a public 
body to store documents used in a particular place or to post them to a website. 
5 To the extent that the complaint alleges that the April 6 discussion was scheduled for a date when the complainant 
could not attend, we note that this is not a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 
===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 