===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
   
 
June 29, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 129 
 
Joseph Emerson, Jr., Esq. 
Emerson & Emerson, Attorneys at Law 
33 Whitney Avenue 
Westwood, MA 02090 
 
By email only: joeemerson@earthlink.net 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Emerson: 
This office received a complaint from Nancy Crossman on March 31, 2022, alleging that 
the Sandwich School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on January 25, and the 
Committee responded by letter dated February 10.1 Ms. Crossman alleges that the Committee 
deliberated outside of a posted meeting regarding which Committee members should be 
appointed to a School Superintendent Search Committee (the “Search Committee”).2, 3 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing selection procedures and then holding a vote outside of a posted meeting to appoint 
Committee members to the Search Committee. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
2 We decline to review any additional allegations made in the request for further review based on Ms. Crossman’s 
public records requests. Our office does not conduct broad audits of public bodies and will address only allegations 
made in an Open Meeting Law complaint in order to give public bodies a chance to address those allegations. See 
OML Declination 4-22-15; OML Declination 8-25-2015; OML 2013-118; OML 2013-60. 
3 We further decline to review any allegations made in the request for further review regarding four Committee 
members’ appearance at a March 8 meeting of the Sandwich Finance Committee , as those allegations were not 
contained in the original complaint. Id. Nevertheless, we take this opportunity to provide the Committee with 
guidance regarding attendance at meetings of other public bodies. In considering whether a quorum of a public body 
deliberated at another public body’s meeting, we look for indicia such as whether the Committee members were 
seated with the general public, whether they participated by open participation, and whether they limited their 
comments to providing information on matters the Committee had already publicly discussed to conclude that no 
improper deliberation occurred. See OML 2016-117. However, factors such as whether the public body members 
spoke as public body members on behalf of the public body, whether they responded to each other’s comments, and 
whether they discussed possible future public body action may signal improper deliberation. See OML 2019-103. 
===PAGE 2===
   
 
2 
 
original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, the complainant’s request for 
further review. We reviewed the notices and minutes of the Committee’s meetings held on 
January 12, January 19, and February 9. We also reviewed eight emails between Committee 
members and with other administrators that Ms. Crossman received as part of a public records 
request and submitted to our office. Finally, we communicated with you by email on June 14.  
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a seven-member public body; thus, four 
members constitute a quorum. On January 19, Chair Don DiGiacomo emailed all Committee 
members regarding the Search Committee. He asserted, “We really aren’t subject to any sort of 
specific rules as to how we decide who will be the 3 SC members that represent us on the search 
committee. . . .” He then suggested that if more than three members were interested, the 
Committee could vote via a paper form before their meeting that evening. He concluded, “As 
there is no requirement to do this as a public process I think this would make the process quicker 
and easier.” At the meeting, Chair DiGiacomo reported that he had asked Committee members to 
contact him if interested and that he, Ms. Kristin Bader, and Mr. Kevin Sareault had 
subsequently been appointed to the Search Committee. The Committee then voted unanimously 
to accept their selection.  
Ms. Crossman first filed her complaint on January 25 and, on March 3, submitted a 
public records request for “all emails between the Sandwich School Committee members, as well 
as any emails with the School Committee and the Town Clerk for the period of Jan 1, 2022 and 
Feb 1, 2022.” Among the emails she received and submitted to our office was the January 19 
email from Chair DiGiacomo, as well as messages conveying the Committee’s reactions to her 
complaint. In a January 25 email to Town Clerk Taylor White, Chair DiGiacomo repeated his 
belief that “there is no policy on how to select members of a search committee” and further 
stated, “If we have to do that on camera that is fine but I’m not sure we do.” Similarly, in a 
January 26 email to Chair DiGiacomo, former member Ms. Kerri Ames, and Superintendent 
Gould, Mr. Burt Fisher expressed that he had “no issues with the way the vote was conducted.”  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by 
a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The 
Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting 
agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the 
distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided than no 
opinion of a member is expressed.” Id.  
 
===PAGE 3===
   
 
3 
 
Furthermore, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18, see also OML 2017-17; OML 2016-172.4 A one-way communication from one 
public body member to a quorum on matters within the body’s jurisdiction constitutes 
deliberation for purposes of the Open Meeting Law, even if no other public body member 
responds. See OML 2019-57; OML 2016-104; OML 2015-33; OML 2012-73. A public body 
may not engage in serial communication whereby a quorum communicates in a non-
contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a subject within the public body’s 
jurisdiction. See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008).  
 
We find that Chair DiGiacomo violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside of 
a posted meeting via email on January 19. In the email, which reached a quorum of the 
committee, Chair DiGiacomo expressed his opinion regarding the Committee’s overall 
operation, including meeting and voting procedures. Discussion of a public body’s operation is a 
matter within the body’s jurisdiction. See OML 2017-91; OML 2016-81. Therefore, these were 
matters of public business that should have been reserved for an open meeting. See OML 2022-
91; OML 2018-9; OML 2011-38. 
 
Moreover, the Committee admits, and we agree, that it violated the Open Meeting Law 
when the Committee voted to appoint members to the Search Committee outside of a posted 
meeting. The school committee in each city, town, and regional school district is empowered to 
select and terminate the superintendent. G.L. c. 71 § 37. Even if, as Chair DiGiacomo asserted, 
the Committee was not required to appoint members to the Search Committee by vote, the Open 
Meeting Law still governs the nomination process, as it is in furtherance of selecting a 
superintendent, a matter within the Committee’s jurisdiction. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. However, we 
acknowledge that, in response to the complaint, the Committee properly noticed and then 
replicated the vote during its February 9 open meeting.  
 
Finally, we must determine if the violation was, as the complainant alleges, intentional. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body or a 
member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. 
An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of 
the Law’s requirements or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law. Id. Here, we find no evidence that the Committee intentionally violated the Open 
Meeting Law. Rather, we are persuaded that the Committee sincerely, if incorrectly, believed 
that the Law did not require the vote be held during an open meeting. See OML 2022-91; OML 
2011-38; OML 2014-108. Specifically, Chair DiGiacomo erroneously asserted in his January 19 
and January 25 emails that there were no “specific rules” governing the process. Mr. Fisher 
echoed that sentiment in his January 26 email. Therefore, we decline to find this violation 
intentional. 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by engaging in deliberation outside of a posted meeting. We order the Committee’s immediate 
and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. We caution the 
 
4 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
   
 
4 
 
Committee that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
 In addition, we order the Committee, to publicly release the Chair’s January 19 email 
discussed above within 30 days of receipt of this determination. The Committee may publicly 
release the email by reading the contents during a meeting and listing the email in the meeting 
minutes, or by referencing the email during a meeting and posting the email along with the 
minutes on the municipal website. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by: Caitlyn Galvin, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Nancy Crossman (via e-mail:  
 Chair Don DiGiacomo (via e-mail: ddigiacomo@sandwich.k12.ma.us) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
