===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 8, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 146 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
James Donnelly 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
jdonnelly@mhtl.com  
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Donnelly: 
 
This office received two complaints from Bruce Friedman, on behalf of 
OpenCommonwealth.org, on April 20 and April 25, 2024,
1 alleging that the Malden School 
Committee (the “Committee”) and its Superintendent Search Committee (the “Search 
Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were 
originally filed with the Committee on or about February 29 and March 8, and you responded on 
behalf of the Committee by letters dated April 19 and April 25. The complaints allege that the 
Committee created the Search Committee and that the Search Committee failed to comply with 
the Open Meeting Law by failing to post meeting notices, hold meetings open to the public, and 
create and maintain meeting minutes. The March 8 complaint additionally alleges that the 
Committee failed to provide emails in response to a records request made by the Complainant 
and instead requested that the Complaint pay a fee for such records. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee and Search Committee did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law as alleged. Additionally, we decline to review the allegation regarding 
response to a request for emails. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting 
Law complaints, the Committee’s responses, and the requests for further review. We also 
reviewed notices for and video recordings of Committee meetings held on January 18, February 
 
1 Between February and May of 2024, the Complainant filed 22 Open Meeting Law complaints with our office 
alleging that the Malden School Committee or its Superintendent Search Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law. The Complainant numbered all but one of the complaints when filing the complaints with our office for further 
review. This determination resolves complaints number 19 and 21. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
5, and March 4, as well as the Malden municipal website for notices of Search Committee 
meetings.2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The complaint stems from the Committee’s decision 
not to renew the contract of Superintendent of Schools Ligia Noriega-Murphy and the need to 
conduct a search for a new superintendent for Malden Public Schools. The Committee held a 
meeting on January 18. Under the notice topic “Motion to Appropriate up to $25,000 to Conduct 
Superintendent Search,” Malden Mayor Gary Christenson, who acts as chair of the Committee, 
explained that appropriation of these funds would allow the superintendent search process to 
begin, including by allowing for the hiring of a search firm to assist. In response to a question 
about whether the money would be appropriated to a search committee, Mayor Christenson 
explained that in the past the chair of the Committee has designated one or two members to lead 
a search committee. He then stated that he suspected Vice Chair Jennifer Spadafora would lead 
the search effort because she had experience from participating in a previous superintendent 
search. After further questions and discussion, the Committee voted favorably to appropriate 
$25,000 for purposes of conducting a superintendent search.  
 
The Committee held a meeting on February 5. The notice for the February 5 meeting 
included, among other things, the following topics:  
 
4. Subcommittee Reports and Discussions 
 . . .  
2. Superintendent Search Committee Update 
 
5. Motions and Resolutions 
1. Superintendent Search Services 
 
During discussion of these topics, Vice Chair Spadafora explained that the search process had 
begun and that Mayor Christenson had designated Vice Chair Spadafora as chair of the Search 
Committee. Vice Chair Spadafora further explained that because of the volume of work the 
search would entail, she asked Mayor Christenson if she could select a co-chair for the Search 
Committee and that she had selected Committee member Sharyn Rose-Zeiberg for this role. 
 
 Vice Chair Spadafora then explained to the Committee that she and M ember Rose-
Zeiberg had contacted three search firms requesting proposals. Vice Chair Spadafora and 
Member Rose-Zeiberg then presented information regarding the two proposals they received and 
recommended that the Committee engage one of the two firms. The Committee voted to engage 
the firm recommended by Vice Chair Spadafora and Member Rose-Zeiberg.   
 
 
2 A video recording of the Committee’s January 18 meeting may be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/live/Ucxsb4k9zIg. A video recording of the Committee’s February 5 meeting may be 
found at https://www.youtube.com/live/X9NEYxCjM8k. A video recording of the Committee’s March 4 meeting 
may be found at https://www.youtube.com/live/l9SzAmQrRmc. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Finally, Vice Chair Spadafora explained the next steps that she and Member Rose-
Zeiberg planned to take with respect to forming the Search Committee, including how 
individuals could express their interest in serving on the Search Committee. Vice Chair 
Spadafora further explained that she and Member Rose-Zeiberg would review the applications of 
those interested in serving on the Search Committee and would choose members based on 
background, experience, and roles within the Malden school community.  
 
At some point on or about February 29, a list of thirteen additional members of the 
Search Committee was posted to the Search Committee’s webpage. 
 
The Committee held a meeting on March 4. During discussion of the notice topic 
“Subcommittee Reports and Discussions . . . Superintendent Search Committee,” Vice Chair 
Spadafora provided an update regarding the selection of individuals to serve on the Search 
Committee. Vice Chair Spadafora explained the process used to solicit for members of the 
Search Committee and noted that they received over 60 volunteer forms from individuals 
interested in serving on the Search Committee. Vice Chair Spadafora and Member Rose-Zeiberg 
then explained the criteria by which they had evaluated the individuals who had expressed 
interest. Thereafter, Vice Chair Spadafora read aloud the list of thirteen additional Search 
Committee members that she and Member Rose-Zeiberg had chosen and asked that the 
Committee ratify their decision. The Committee voted to ratify the selection of the thirteen 
additional members chosen by Vice Chair Spadafora and Member Rose-Zeiberg.  
 
Thereafter, the Search Committee held its initial meeting on March 14, for which it 
posted notice.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
As an initial matter, we decline to review the allegation that the Committee failed to 
provide emails in response to a records request made by the Complainant. Most requests for 
government documents are governed by the Public Records Law. However, the Open Meeting 
Law provides a mechanism for the public to request meeting minutes under the Open Meeting 
Law.
3 G.L. c. 30A, § 22. Requests for records other than meeting minutes fall under the Public 
Records Law, not the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 22(c), (e), (g)(2); G. L. c. 4, 
§ 7(26); G.L. c. 66, § 10; 950 C.M.R. 32.00. The Division of Open Government’s statutory 
review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, only. Therefore, we decline to review 
the allegation that the Committee failed to provide emails in response to the Complainant’s 
request for emails where that allegation concerns the Committee’s compliance with the Public 
Records Law and not the Open Meeting Law. See OML Declination 8-19-13 (Southwick Board 
of Selectmen); OML Declination 3-11-15 (Wayland School Committee).4  
 
 
3 A request for meeting minutes may be made under the Public Records Law or the Open Meeting Law. When a 
requester does not specify whether the request for minutes is being made under the Public Records Law or the Open 
Meeting Law, we have said that a request that is directed to a public body will fall within the Open Meeting Law, 
but a request for minutes that is directed to a records access officer or other municipal employee, such as a 
superintendent, will likely fall under the Public Records Law. See OML 2019-126; OML 2019-68. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Next, we turn to the allegation that the Search Committee failed to comply with the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to post meeting notices, hold meetings open to the public, and create 
meeting minutes. The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and individuals acting as 
public body members. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Law defines “public body” as “a multiple-
member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative 
branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or 
otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law 
further provides “that a subcommittee shall include any multiple-member body created to advise 
or make recommendations to a public body.” Id. Whether a public body created a subcommittee 
is a fact-intensive inquiry and our analysis hinges on the public body’s actions and whether it 
intended to create a multiple-member body. Compare OML 2017-111 (finding that no 
subcommittee was created where a single volunteer was sought to work on a matter and another 
board member thereafter, on their own initiative, volunteered to assist), with OML 2018-23 
(finding that a subcommittee was created where multiple volunteers were sought to work on a 
matter and after two individuals volunteered, the public body, by consensus, formally agreed to 
the arrangement); see also OML 2023-32 (“Although it may be the case that the Board did not 
literally intend to create a subcommittee, . . . we find that the Board’s actions . . . clearly created 
a subcommittee.”). 
 
Ther
e is no dispute that the Search Committee exists5 and is subject to the Open Meeting 
Law; rather, the question is when the Search Committee formally came into existence and, 
accordingly, whether the Search Committee held any meetings without posting notice. We 
understand the complaints to allege that the Search Committee came into existence either when 
Mayor Christenson named Vice Chair Spadafora as chair of the Search Committee or when Vice 
Chair Spadafora later chose Member Rose-Zeiberg as co-chair of the Search Committee. 
Therefore, the complaints allege, at some point after January 18 but before February 5 the Search 
Committee was comprised of two members, Vice Chair Spadafora and Member Rose-Zeiberg, 
and any time these two members communicated regarding the superintendent search a quorum of 
the Search Committee deliberated. Conversely, the Committee asserts that the Search Committee 
did not formally exist until March 4 when the Committee voted to ratify Vice Chair Spadafora 
and Member Rose-Zeiberg’s appointees to the Search Committee.  
 
 We find that the Search Committee did not formally exist until on or about February 29. 
In OML 2017-111, we explained that a subcommittee was not created when one member of the 
public body volunteered to work on a matter and thereafter another member offered to help, 
because the select board had not intended to create a multiple-member body. Similarly, here, we 
do not find that Mayor Christenson designating Vice Chair Spadafora to serve as chair of the 
Search Committee and Vice Chair Spadafora later seeking Member Rose-Zeiberg’s assistance 
constituted creation of a subcommittee. Instead, we find that the Search Committee was formed 
sometime between February 5 and February 29, once the Search Committee was populated. 
Based on the information before us it is clear that, although the Committee did not specify a set 
number of members to serve on the Search Committee, the intent was for the Search Committee 
to be comprised of more than just Vice Chair Spadafora and Member Rose-Zeiberg.  
 
5 We understand that a new superintendent has been selected and so the work of the Seach Committee is complete 
and the Search Committee may have disbanded. However, for clarity, we refer to the Search Committee in the 
present tense. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
The Committee asserts that the Search Committee “was not created until the Committee 
voted to create it during the Committee’s March 4, 2024 meeting.” On this point, we disagree. 
The Committee did not vote to create the Search Committee on March 4, but rather voted to 
ratify the decision already made, and announced online, by Vice Chair Spadafora and Member 
Rose-Zeiberg to appoint thirteen specific individuals to the Search Committee. Had Vice Chair 
Spadafora and Member Rose-Zeiberg chosen not to seek the Committee’s ratification of their 
decision, the Search Committee still would have existed and been subject to the Open Meeting 
Law. Based on the information before us, we find that the Search Committee was created 
sometime between February 5 and February 29 and that Vice Chair Spadafora and Member 
Rose-Zeiberg’s communications prior to this time did not constitute deliberation under the Open 
Meeting Law. Moreover, once the Search Committee was formed, communications between only 
Vice Chair Spadafora and Member Rose-Zeiberg would not have constituted deliberation 
because the two do not constitute a quorum of the Search Committee. The Search Committee 
posted notice of its first meeting to take place on March 14, and several other meetings 
thereafter, and we find no indication that the Search Committee deliberated outside of a posted 
meeting. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee and Search Committee did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged. We now consider the complaints addressed 
by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints 
that may be pending with the Committee, Search Committee, or our office. Please feel free to 
contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Mayor Gary Christenson, Chair, Malden School Committee  
(via email: mayor@cityofmalden.org)  
Jennifer Spadafora, Vice Chair of the Malden School Committee and Co-chair of the 
Superintendent Search Committee (via email: jspadafora@maldenps.org) 
Sharyn Rose-Zeiberg, Member of the Malden School Committee and Co-chair of the 
Superintendent Search Committee (via email: srose-zeiberg@maldenps.org) 
Carol Ann Desiderio, Malden City Clerk (via email: cdesiderio@cityofmalden.org) 
Bruce Friedman, OpenCommonwealth.org (via email: ) 
 
 

===PAGE 6===
6 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 