===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 13, 2017 
OML 2017-172 
Katherine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan, dated October 20, alleging that 
the Ashland Town Forest Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on September 6, and, 
after an extension of time was granted, the Committee responded by letter dated October 5. In 
his complaint, Mr. Morgan alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) 
convening a meeting on a holiday, (ii) holding a meeting in a locked building, and (iii) meeting 
in a location other than what was listed on the meeting notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed a supplementary e-mail from 
the Committee chair, dated November 1, and we spoke with the Committee's legal counsel by 
telephone on this same date.2 
FACTS 
The Committee held a meeting on September 4, which was Labor Day. The meeting 
took place at Ashland Town Hall. Because it was a holiday, the doors to the building were 
locked. The Committee chair put signs on the doors with her cell phone number so that anyone 
wishing to be admitted to the building could contact her, in which case she would then open the 
door. Additionally, the signs indicated that anyone seeking entrance could knock on the window 
of the meeting room and a staff member would open the door. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
O 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
On September 5 at approximately 9:00 P.M., the complainant contacted our office by e-
mail asking, "Can you please advise if an open meeting is allowed on a Holiday?" On 
September 6 at approximately 9:30 A.M., a representative from our office responded by e-mail 
stating that the Open Meeting Law does not prohibit public bodies from holding meetings on 
holidays. The present complaint was then filed with the Committee later the same day. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Committee Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Holding a Meeting on 
a Legal Holiday. 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted to "eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of public bodies be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by holding a meeting on a legal holiday. Holding a meeting on a legal holiday 
does not violate the Open Meeting Law.3 Given that our office expressly informed the 
complainant that public bodies do not violate the Open Meeting Law by holding meetings on 
legal holidays, we are at a loss as to why he would include this allegation as part of his 
complaint. Filing complaints containing frivolous allegations wastes both municipal and 
Commonwealth resources. We discourage the complainant from filing such allegations in the 
future. 
II. The Meeting Location was Sufficiently Accessible to the Public. 
In order for a meeting to be truly open to the public, the meeting venue must be 
accessible to the public for the duration of the meeting. See OML 2014-118.4 In a past 
determination, we said that a meeting venue was not accessible where the main entrance was 
locked and there was no signage instructing the public how to access the meeting. Id. However, 
we have also stated that a meeting in a locked building is sufficiently accessible where members 
of the public can access the building by notifying personnel or knocking on a window. See OML 
2011-52. Here, the Committee posted signage informing members of the public how to access 
the meeting location and we therefore find that the meeting location was sufficiently accessible. 
Ideally, doors necessary to access open meetings should not be locked. The Committee's legal 
counsel stated to our office that the Town will take measures to ensure that doors are unlocked 
for future meetings. We commend the Committee for undertaking this commitment. 
3 The following guidance is provided in the Frequently Asked Questions section of the Attorney General's Open 
Meeting Law website, available at www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting: 
While the Open Meeting Law is silent with regard to holding public meetings on Sundays, the best practice is not to 
hold public meetings on Sundays or holidays when access to public buildings may be limited and when the public 
does not normally anticipate the scheduling of a public meeting. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's Office, 
www .mass. go v/ago/op enmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
III. The Meeting was Held in the Location Listed on the Meeting Notice. 
Meeting notices must contain, among other required information, the location of the 
meeting. G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b). The complaint alleges that the September 4 meeting was not held 
at the location listed on the meeting notice. The Committee chair stated to our office that the 
meeting was held in Ashland Town Hall as advertised, and the complainant has provided no 
evidence to support this allegation. See OML 2017-138. Accordingly, we find that the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to this allegation. 
CONCLUSION 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. MangaimrQ 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Stephen Morgan 
Ashland Town Forest Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 