===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
June 7, 2023 
       
       OML 2023 – 96 
 
 
John J. Clifford, Esq. 
Clifford & Kenny LLP 
 
By email only: pitlerj@aol.com 
 
 RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Clifford: 
 
This office received a complaint from John Ellard on November 25, 2022, alleging that 
the Rockland Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about October 4, 2022, 
and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated October 24, 2022.
1  
The complaint alleges that the Board discussed a topic, filling a vacancy on the Charter 
Maintenance Committee, that was not listed on the notice for a meeting held on October 4.   
 
After review, we find that the Board discussed a topic during its October 4 meeting that 
was not listed on the notice for that meeting, but that the Board satisfactorily cured the violation 
of the Open Meeting Law through subsequent action.  In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint filed with the Board, the Board’s response, the complainant’s 
request for review of the complaint, and additional correspondence from the complainant.  We 
also reviewed minutes of the Board meetings held on October 4, October 18, November 1, and 
November 15.   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Id.  The list of topics 
shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
 
1 All dates refer to the year 2022.   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35; OML 2012-71; OML 2011-44.2   
 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on October 4 and included, among other 
topics, the topic “Appointments” and below that the subtopic “Charter Review Committee – 
Richard Penney.”  During its October 4 meeting, the Board voted unanimously to appoint 
Richard Penney to the Charter Maintenance Committee.   
 
After this complaint was filed, the Board acknowledged that the Charter Review 
Committee and Charter Maintenance Committee are two separate and distinct entities, albeit 
with overlapping missions.  The Board asserts that there had been a mistaken belief that the 
Charter Maintenance Committee was a subset of the Charter Review Committee and therefore 
appointing a person to either committee was covered by the notice topic “Charter Review 
Committee.”  The Board acknowledged that it violated the Open Meeting Law on October 4 
when it voted on an appointment to the Charter Maintenance Committee when the meeting 
notice only included the topic “Charter Review Committee.”    
 
We next consider whether the Board cured the violation of the Open Meeting Law when, 
at its next meeting held on October 18, the Board voted unanimously to rescind its October 4 
vote to appoint Richard Penney to the Charter Maintenance Committee, and subsequently posted 
adequate notice for future meetings where it reviewed applicants and then voted on appointments 
to both the Charter Maintenance Committee and the Charter Review Committee.  Specifically, 
the Board announced at its October 18 meeting that there was one vacancy on the Charter 
Maintenance Committee and four vacancies on the Charter Review Committee, and that 
applicants for both would be reviewed and appointed at a future meeting.  The notice for the 
Board’s November 1 meeting stated that the Board would review applicants for both the Charter 
Review Committee and the Charter Maintenance Committee; the notice for the Board’s 
November 15 meeting stated that the Board would review applicants and make appointments to 
both the Charter Review Committee and the Charter Maintenance Committee.  At its November 
15 meeting, after completing interviews of all applicants, the Board voted unanimously to 
appoint Richard Penney to the Charter Maintenance Committee and to appoint four individuals, 
including the complainant, to the Charter Review Committee.   
 
Violations of the Open Meeting Law may be cured by subsequent independent 
deliberative action that is not merely a ceremonial acceptance and perfunctory ratification of 
action taken in violation of the law.  See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637, 642 (2008); 
Pearson v. Bd. of Selectmen of Longmeadow, 49 Mass. App. Ct. 119, 125 (2000); OML 2020-7; 
OML 2016-49.   Generally, that means conducting deliberations anew at a subsequent meeting 
that is accessible to the public and for which proper notice is provided.  See McCrea, 71 Mass. 
App. Ct. at 642 (explaining that “violations of the open meeting law may be cured by subsequent 
‘independent deliberative action’ taken in a full meeting.”); OML 2020-67.  We find that the 
Board’s actions at its October 18, November 1, and November 15 meetings cured the violation 
that occurred on October 4. 
 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law when it made an appointment to the Charter Maintenance Committee during its October 4 
meeting despite that topic not being included on the meeting notice, and that the Board cured that 
violation through subsequent action.  We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
  
Sincerely, 
        
       Carrie Benedon 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  John Ellard (by email ) 
Rockland Board of Selectmen (by email to Chair Michael O’Loughlin: 
moloughlin@rockland-ma.gov) 
 Rockland Town Clerk (by email: dshortall@rockland-ma.gov)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
