===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
        
May 24, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 105 
 
 
James Donnelly, Esq.  
Murphy Hesse Tommey & Lehane LLP 
50 Braintree Hill Office Park 
Braintree, MA 02184 
 
Howard Greenspan, Esq. 
200 Broadway 
Lynnfield, MA 01940 
 
By email only: 
jdonnelly@mhtl.com; HGreenspan@GreenspanLawyers.com  
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorneys Donnelly and Greenspan: 
 
This office received a complaint from Brian DeLacey on February 26, 2024, alleging that 
the Malden School Committee (“Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about January 26, 2024, and 
you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by separate letters dated February 16, 2024, 
following an extension of time granted by this office.  The complaint alleges that the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing a matter that was inappropriate for executive 
session during a meeting held on October 4, 2021.  
 
 Following our review, we find that the Co mmittee violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee’s responses to the complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review, and the notice and executive session minutes of the Committee meeting held on October 
4, 2021, as well as a video recording of that meeting.
1   
 
 
 
1 A video recording of the Committee meeting held on October 4, 2021, is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RATwT10ODcw. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  During a meeting held on October 4, 2021, the Committee 
met in open session and approved one set of open session minutes and received public comment.  
During public comment, Lilly Sterenberg from Linden STEAM Academy advised the 
Committee that the Governor extended sick pay leave for part-time employees.  The Committee 
then heard from the Superintendent and various school administrators on issues relating to 
enrollment, covid testing, building maintenance, reading programs, teacher demographics and 
class structure at the high school, school counseling, MCAS scores, substitute teachers, English 
language learner enrollment and welcome center program, free/reduced lunch program, and 
athletics. 
 
The Committee unanimously voted by roll call to convene in executive session to 
approve one set of executive session minutes and to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
negotiations with Units A, B and C, as well as SEIU Local 888 Clerical Unit.  Mayor Gary 
Christenson, who is Chair of the Committee, stated that the Committee would reconvene in open 
session at the conclusion of the executive session. 
 
The Committee has released the minutes of the executive session.  During the executive 
session, the Committee approved the executive session minutes of a September 13, 2021, 
meeting and discussed proposed contract terms for Unit C and the SEIU Local 888 Clerical Unit.  
Mayor Christenson then discussed the issue raised by Ms. Sterenberg during the public comment 
period explaining that the Governor recently signed a law to extend emergency paid sick leave 
for employees to address Covid-19 related health issues and asked the Superintendent to inform 
all school employees.  Attorney Greenspan advised that the law allows an employee who had 
close contact with an individual testing positive for Covid-19 to keep working as long as they 
test negative for five consecutive days.  
 
At the conclusion of the executive session, which lasted for about 20 minutes, the 
Committee reconvened in open session and voted to authorize Mayor Christenson, as the chair, 
to send a memorandum of agreement between the Committee and the paraprofessional’s union.  
The Committee thereafter adjourned. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Trust of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The Law defines “deliberation” broadly as “an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not 
include the distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or 
documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is 
expressed.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of 
the members of a public body.  Id.  The Open Meeting Law does not carve out an exception to 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
the definition of “deliberation” for discussions that do not result in a decision or vote.  See OML 
2020-93.  In fact, a one-way communication from one public body member to a quorum on 
matters within the body’s jurisdiction constitutes deliberation for purposes of the Open Meeting 
Law, even if no other public body member responds.  See OML 2024-89; OML 2016-104; OML 
2015-33; OML 2012-73.2   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open se
ssion, unless an executive session is convened.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  A public 
body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the 
Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is 
recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether 
the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94. 
 
A public body may convene in executive session to “conduct collective bargaining 
sessio
ns” or “discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining . . . if an open meeting may 
have a detrimental effect on the bargaining . . . position of the public body and the chair so 
declares.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”); G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3).  When 
meeting in executive session, a public body may only address subjects related to the narrow 
executive session purpose the public body cited when entering executive session.  See District 
Attorney for the Northwestern Dist. v. Board of Selectmen of Sunderland, 11 Mass. App. Ct. 
663, 666 (1981) (executive session may not be used as a blanket reason to deliberate on matters 
other than those pertaining to the specific purpose for which executive session was called). 
 
The complaint alleges that certain discussions, i.e. those pertaining to the paid sick leave 
law, were inappropriate for executive session.3  The Committee’s response to the complaint from 
Attorney Greenspan suggests that the paid sick leave topic “was informational, not deliberative.”  
The Committee’s response from Attorney Donnelly acknowledged “that remedial action was 
necessary” without specifically conceding that the Committee should not have discussed the paid 
sick leave law in executive session.  Even if the paid sick leave topic was only “informational” as 
the Committee suggests, such information should not have been shared during the executive 
session.  Matters pertaining to general compensation policy or matters involving a more wide-
ranging strategy that would reach beyond any one employee or bargaining unit must be discussed 
in open session.  See OML 2014-30; OML 2013-91.  Here, the issue of  the paid sick leave law 
was not related to the Committee’s strategy with respect to collective bargaining but was rather a 
general employment announcement and therefore a matter that was not appropriate for executive 
session.  We acknowledge that the task of managing the flow of conversation about all manner of 
public business can be complicated.  Nevertheless, it is incumbent upon the public body to 
carefully monitor the subject matter of discussion when in executive session to ensure that topics 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
3 The complaint does not suggest, nor do we find, any impropriety regarding the Committee’s discussions in 
executive session with respect to its strategy for attaining collective bargaining agreements with Unit C or the SEIU 
Local 888 Clerical Unit. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
do not stray from the lawful purpose for which the executive session was called.  See OML 
2021-80; OML 2010-6.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by discussing a topic in executive session that was not appropriate for executive session.  We 
order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar 
future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  Where the Committee 
has released the executive session minutes of the October 4, 2021, meeting, we decline to order 
further remedial action.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Brian DeLacey – By email only:   
Malden School Committee c/o Mayor Gary Christenson, Chair – By email only: 
mayor@cityofmalden.org 
Malden City Clerk Carol Ann Desiderio – By email only: cdes
 iderio@cityofmalden.org  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
