===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
May 10, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 93 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Jonathan Simpson, Esq. 
Associate Town Counsel for the Town of Brookline 
jsimpson@brooklinema.gov  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Simpson: 
 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Reeders on December 29, 2023, alleging 
that the Brookline Pierce School Building Committee’s (the “Committee”) Working Group 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was filed with the 
Committee on October 19, 2023, and, after an extension of time granted by our office, you 
responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated December 8, 2023. The complaint alleges 
that the Committee created a subcommittee called the Working Group and that this group 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post meeting notices or create meeting minutes.  
 
 Following our review, we find that the Working Group was  a subcommittee of the 
Committee and therefore was required to create and maintain meeting minutes. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response, the 
request for further review, and further response and information provided by the Committee at 
the request of our office. We also reviewed the minutes and a video recording of the 
Committee’s June 14, 2021, meeting.
1 Finally, we communicated with Town Counsel via email.2 
 
As an initial matter, we note that the Committee asserts that the complaint was untimely 
filed
 with the Committee. Based on the information before us, we agree that the complaint was 
untimely with respect to the allegation that the Working Group failed to post meeting notices.  
See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4); OML Declination 2-8-22 (Milton Select Board) 
 
1 A video recording of the Committee’s June 14, 2021, meeting may be found at 
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1cV7_JBTGhaNyy5-FLnbkPGp9cKZkoyTS/view.  
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
(“When reviewing the timeliness of a complaint we consider when the action that is alleged to 
have violated the Open Meeting Law was reasonably discoverable, not when an individual 
complainant became aware of the action or of the requirements of the Open Meeting Law.”).
3 
However, because the Open Meeting Law imposes a continuing obligation on public bodies to 
maintain minutes of all meetings, see G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a), we find that the complaint is not 
untimely with respect to the allegation that meeting minutes of a public body were not created. 
See OML 2020-69; OML 2019-133; OML 2018-115; OML 2013-45. Therefore, we find it 
necessary to determine whether the Working Group was a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law such that it was required to create and maintain meeting minutes. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Committee is a fourteen-member public body; 
therefore, eight members constitute a quorum. According to the website for Brookline Public 
Schools, the Committee shall, among other things, “work with the Project Manager and 
consultants in support of the [building] project,” and “shall be concerned with all aspects of the 
project including budget, schedule, safety, public relations, coordination of town agencies, 
logistics, and contract compliance.” 
 
 The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on June 14, 2021. Included on the 
notice was the topic “Decision Making Process - Create a Working Group.” During the meeting, 
a representative from LeftField, which serves as the Owner’s Project Manager (the “Project 
Manager”) for the Pierce School Building Project, suggested creating the Working Group. The 
plan was to have a subset of the Committee which would meet more frequently and be able to 
meet fully remotely (at the time, the Project Manager believed that the Committee would soon be 
required by the Open Meeting Law to hold meetings in person again). The goal of the Working 
Group was to provide feedback and input to the project team in order for the team to maintain 
progress between Committee meetings. Prior to the June 14 meeting, the Project Manager’s 
representative sought the assistance of the co-chairs of the Committee in identifying which 
Committee members should serve on the Working Group. 
 
During the June 14 meeting, the representative introduced the idea of creating the 
Working Group and explained that the group would not make any decisions but would help the 
design team maintain progress between Committee meetings. Thereafter, the representative read 
aloud the list of Committee members that she and the co-chairs had identified to serve on the 
Working Group and asked each member if they were willing to serve. The list included the 
following voting members of the Committee: Co-chair Bernard Greene, Co-chair Helen 
Charlupski, Jamie Yadoff, Andy Liu, Steve Heikin, Ken Kaplan, and Aaron Williams. Each 
member, except for Aaron Williams who was not present at the meeting, accepted the invitation 
to serve on the Working Group. Thereafter, the Committee discussed that the Working Group 
consisted of less than a quorum of the Committee and the representative noted that she was in 
communication with Town Counsel regarding whether the Working Group would be required to 
comply with the Open Meeting Law.  
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 At one point, Committee  member Carol Levin asked if other voting members of the 
Committee could attend Working Group meetings or if this would present a problem because 
then a quorum of the Committee would be in attendance. The Committee discussed that it would 
be problematic to have another member of the Committee attend a Working Group meeting. Co-
chair Charlupski noted that it was her intention that the full Committee would meet in July at 
which point the Working Group would “come back to the full group to show where we are, what 
we’re thinking, [and] get direction.” Co-chair Charlupski asked if this addressed Ms. Levin’s 
concerns and Ms. Levin noted that she wanted to make sure that things did not progress too far 
without her knowing what was going on. From there Ms. Levin suggested that if there was a 
meeting of the Working Group at which her presence would be helpful, a member of the 
Working Group could sit out and she could sit in “as a proxy,” thus avoiding a quorum of the 
Committee being present. Co-chair Charlpuski noted that there may be times that other 
Committee members’ expertise would be helpful and so the Working Group could take a similar 
approach to that suggested by Ms. Levin in those instances as well. Finally, there was discussion 
expressing concern that where the Working Group was comprised of seven voting members of 
the Committee, this brought them very close to a quorum of the Committee serving on the 
Working Group. 
 
 The Working Group held meetings on the following dates in 2021: July 14, July 30, 
August 13, August 27, and September 10. Thereafter, the Working Group was disbanded. The 
Working Group did not create or approve minutes for any of these meetings. 
 
 The notice for the Committee’s August 4 meeting included, under the heading “Design 
Update,” the topic “Summarize Pierce Working Group Feedback.” During the meeting a 
representative from Miller Dyer Spears Architects presented the design updates. During the 
discussion there were references to discussions and recommendations of the Working Group. 
Likewise, during the Committee’s September 9 meeting, a representative of Miller Dyer Spears 
Architects “presented an update on options that have been developed based on feedback received 
through previous meetings with the [Committee] and the Working Group.” 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and individuals acting as public 
body mem
bers. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Law defines “public body” as “a multiple-
member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative 
branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or 
otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. When 
determining whether a multiple-member entity is a public body subject to the Open Meeting 
Law, we consider three factors: 1) the entity must be “within” government and not excluded 
from the definition of “public body;” 2) the entity must be a “body” empowered to act 
collectively; and 3) the entity must serve a “public purpose.” See OML 2019-135; OML 2017-
118; OML 2016-102; OML 2012-20; OML 2011-42; OML 2010-1. 
 
The Law further provides “that a
  subcommittee shall include any multiple-member body 
created to advise or make recommendations to a public body.” Id. Whether a public body created 
a subcommittee is a fact-intensive inquiry and our analysis hinges on the public body’s actions 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
and whether it intended to create a multiple-member body. Compare, OML 2017-111 (finding 
that no subcommittee was created where a single volunteer was sought to work on a matter and 
another board member thereafter, on their own initiative, volunteered to assist), with OML 2018-
23 (finding that a subcommittee was created where multiple volunteers were sought to work on a 
matter and after two individuals volunteered, the public body, by consensus, formally agreed to 
the arrangement); see also, OML 2023-32 (“Although it may be the case that the Board did not 
literally intend to create a subcommittee, . . . we find that the Board’s actions . . . clearly created 
a subcommittee.”).  
 
We f
ind that the Working Group was a subcommittee of the Committee. Although the 
Committee did not take a formal vote to create the Working Group, we find that the Committee’s 
actions show that it clearly intended to create a multiple-member body. For example, the co-
chairs of the Committee were consulted regarding which members of the Committee should 
serve on the Working Group. Additionally, creation of the Working Group was listed on the 
notice for the Committee’s June 14, 2021, meeting and the membership of the Working Group 
was discussed and settled during this meeting. In its additional response to our office, the 
Committee asserts that membership of the Working Group was intentionally “fluid” and 
therefore there was no quorum requirement. We disagree with this characterization. During the 
June 14 meeting seven specific voting members of the Committee were identified and asked to 
participate in the Working Group. Although the Committee discussed how additional voting 
members of the Committee might attend Working Group meetings without having a quorum of 
the Committee present, this did not change the membership of the Working Group.  
 
The Committee also asserts that the Working Group had no authority to make decisions 
and therefore was not a body empowered to act collectively. In support of this assertion, the 
Committee states that the Working Group’s “sole purpose was to advise the design team,” and 
that the Committee “explicitly refrained from delegating any authority to the Working Group to 
act on their behalf.” Although the representative of the Project Manager stated that the Working 
Group would not make any decisions, on balance, the evidence shows that the Working Group’s 
authority was not “explicitly” limited. Rather, during the June 14 meeting, Co-chair Charlupski 
stated that it was her intention that the Working Group would “come back to the full group to 
show where we are, what we’re thinking, [and] get direction.” In other words, the Working 
Group would function as a subcommittee of the Committee. Furthermore, the Working Group 
was comprised entirely of voting members of the Committee and created specifically so that 
progress on the project could be made between Committee meetings. Essentially, the Working 
Group was created to carry out the work of the Committee and with the hope that the Working 
Group would not have to comply with the Open Meeting Law. Although we appreciate that this 
was done in the name of efficiency, the Committee may not circumvent the Open Meeting Law 
in this way. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons explained above, we find that the Working Group was a subcommittee of 
the Committee and therefore was fully subject to the Open Meeting Law. Furthermore, we find 
that where the Working Group failed to create and approve minutes for its meetings, it violated 
the Open Meeting Law. We order the Working Group, within 60 days of the date of this letter, to 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
create minutes for its meetings.4 We acknowledge the difficulty in creating meeting minutes 
where significant time has passed since the meetings occurred. Nevertheless, we order the 
Working Group to create meeting minutes to the best of its ability, through whatever means are 
available, including the memories and individual notations of the attendees. See OML 2020-53 
(noting that, although “time ha[d] passed since [the] meeting occurred, the Board should add the 
requisite level of detail to the minutes to the best of its ability”); OML 2020-69 (ordering a 
school committee to create and approve minutes for meetings of a subcommittee held over a 
three-year period). Although we order the Working Group to create minutes to the best of its 
ability, we remind the Working Group that minutes must accurately capture what was actually 
discussed during the meetings. See OML 2020-101; OML 2020-62. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Bernard Greene, Co-chair, Pierce School Building Committee  
(via email: bgreene@brooklinema.gov)  
Helen Charlupski, Co-chair, Pierce School Building Committee  
(via email: helen_charlupski@psbma.org) 
Ben Kaufman, Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@brooklinema.gov) 
Stephen Reeders (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
4 The Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes include “the date, time and place [of the meeting], the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits 
used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes. ” 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
