===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
October 29, 2019 
OML 2019-134
Kevin C. Maynard, Esq.
Bulkley, Richardson and Gelinas, LLP 
1500 Main Street, Suite 2700 
P.O.Box 15507 
Springfield, MA 01115
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Maynard:
This office received a complaint from Ralph Page on February 4, 2019, alleging that the 
East Longmeadow Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on December 6; and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated July 17, 2019.2 The complaint alleges that the 
Board discussed a matter during its November 20 and December 4 meetings that was 
insufficiently detailed on the notices for those meetings.
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notices and 
open session minutes of the Board’s November 20 and December 4 meetings.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
November 20 at 6:00 P.M. The notice listed approval of minutes, four new public hearings, 
three sign permits, two continued public hearings, and endorsement of a definitive subdivision
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018, unless otherwise noted.
2 We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, 
the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the 
complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of 
the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).
o

===PAGE 2===
plan. One “New Public Hearing” listed on the notice pertained to 330 Chestnut Street and 
described the project as follows: “Petition by Applicant to consider a zoning change at 330 
Chestnut Street (Assessor’s Parcel 18-38-0), a 40.35+/- acre site, from Industrial Garden zoning 
district to Mixed Use zoning district.”
The November 20 meeting was held as planned and the Board discussed the Chestnut 
Street project. Chair George Kingston introduced the petition explaining that it was for a zoning 
change “from Industrial Garden to Mixed Use, specifically noting this was a proposal to 
introduce a new zoning district to the Town of East Longmeadow.” Chair Kingston then advised 
the applicant on the process to move such proposal forward including establishing a zoning 
district, conducting a public hearing to review the proposed district, and then site plan review. 
Developer John Taikina provided a power point presentation illustrating the concept for mixed 
use development. The Board invited the developer to return to the Board’s next meeting on 
December 4 with information on traffic impact, a history of previous development projects, and 
the proposed types of mixed-use development. The Board then heard from five members of the 
public, one of whom was the complainant, who raised concerns about affordable housing and 
changes to the bylaws. The Board unanimously voted to continue the public hearing to 
December 4.
The Board duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on December 4 at 6:00 P.M. The 
notice listed approval of minutes, three zoning amendments, three public hearings, a site plan 
waiver request, two sign permits, an Approval Not Required proposal, and endorsement of a 
definitive subdivision plan. The project at 330 Chestnut Street was listed under the heading 
“Zoning Amendment Public Hearings” and described the project as follows: “Petition by 
Applicant to consider a zoning change at 330 Chestnut Street (Assessor’s Parcel 18-38-0), a 
40.35+/- acre site, from Industrial Garden zoning district to Mixed Use zoning district.”
The December 4 meeting was held as planned. The Board again discussed the Chestnut 
Street project and heard from Developer Taikina, applicant and property owner Joe Conley, and 
Mr. Conley’s attorney, Jane Mantolesky. The Board discussed organizing public outreach 
sessions to present and receive feedback on a mixed-use zoning district. Board member Russell 
Denver recommended that the Board meet jointly with Town Council and that the Board begin to 
draft a proposed by-law for adoption of a mixed-use district. The Board unanimously voted to 
continue the public hearing to December 18. We note that the Board is still currently discussing 
this project and zoning amendments for a mixed-use district.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. Public bodies must post notice of each meeting “at least 48 hours prior to such 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and every notice must include “the 
date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The list of topics shall have “sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a
2

===PAGE 3===
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35; OML 2012-71; OML 2011-44.3
The complaint alleges that the Board’s discussion of a mixed-use zoning district was not 
sufficiently detailed on the November 20 and December 4 meeting notices. The notice for the 
Board’s November 20 meeting included a public hearing for a project at 330 Chestnut Street.
The notice described the project as a petition to consider a zoning change to a mixed-use district. 
The notice for the Board’s December 4 meeting included the 330 Chestnut Street project under 
the heading “Zoning Amendment Public Hearings” and further referred to the project as 
requiring a zoning change for a mixed-use district. The Board need not list each and every detail 
about a topic in order to comply with the law’s requirements. See OML 2014-122. Moreover, 
the Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to anticipate the course of deliberation or 
the outcome of a discussion, only that it identify the discussion topic with sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38.
We find that the Board’s discussions regarding a mixed-use district naturally flowed from 
its consideration of the posted agenda topic, which notified the public that it was conducting a 
public hearing with respect to a specifically identified property on Chestnut Street and referenced 
that the project included a zoning change to a mixed-use district. Where the notice was 
sufficient to inform the public of the discussions that occurred, we find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law. In the future, we recommend that if the Board anticipates 
discussing a zoning amendment for a mixed-use district separate and distinct from the 330 
Chestnut Street project, it should include that discussion topic separately on the meeting notice.
CONCLUSION
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We now consider the 
complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address 
any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with our office. Please feel free to 
contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Ralph Page
East Longmeadow Planning Board
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
