===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 5, 2015 
OML 2015-112 
Richard Follett, Chair 
Plainville Board of Assessors 
142 South Street 
P.O.Box 1717 
Plainville, MA 02762 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Mr. Follett: 
This office received two complaints from Patrick Higgins, dated April 5,1 alleging 
that the Plainville Board of Assessors (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Board on or about March 
15 and March 16, and you responded,2 on behalf of the Board, to the complaints by 
separate letters dated March 17.3 In his complaints, Mr. Higgins alleges that the executive 
session topics listed in the notices for the Board's February 23 and March 9 meetings 
lacked sufficient detail. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include sufficient detail in the meeting notice and in the chair's verbal statements 
prior to the Board's March 9 executive session. The Board did not violate the law with 
respect to its February 23 meeting, however. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the 
original complaints; the Board's responses to the complaints; and the complaints filed with 
our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notices and open session 
minutes from the Board's February 23 and March 9 meetings, as well as the executive 
session minutes from the March 9 meeting. 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
3 We remind the Board that although a public body may authorize the chair to respond on its behalf, the 
Board must first collectively review the complaint during a meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 
29.05(5). 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board often convenes in executive session under 
G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(a)(7) ("Purpose 7") to discuss tax abatement applications filed with the 
Board. Accordingly, the Board planned to convene in executive session during its 
meetings held on February 23 and March 9 for this purpose. On both meeting notices, the 
Board described its anticipated executive sessions as "Executive Session to review and 
discuss," but did not include any detail about what would be reviewed or discussed, or the 
applicable executive session purpose that authorized the closed door discussion. In 
response to the complaints, the Board indicated that its executive session topics were on 
the meeting notices, however they were inadvertently listed under the heading "New 
Business." Accordingly, the February 23 notice read as follows: "New Business: Fiscal 
Year 2015 Applications for Abatement and Real Estate Abatement Application #RE-15-
01- #RE-15-11." The Board did not, in fact, convene in executive session on that date. 
The Board did convene in executive session on March 9, however, to discuss 
certain real estate abatement applications. Under the heading "New Business," the notice 
for this Board meeting listed a variety of topics, including "Fiscal Year 2015 Applications 
for Abatement; Real Estate Abatement Application #RE-15-01- #RE-15-11." The Board 
states that these topics also were intended for discussion in executive session. According 
to the meeting minutes, prior to convening in executive session on March 9, the Board 
voted to convene in executive session "for the purpose of discussing Applications for 
Abatement of Real Estate Tax."4 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
the deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School 
Committee of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires a public body to 
post notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b). Executive 
session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in the announcement 
during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the purpose for 
which the executive session was called. See District Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. 
Of Wavland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in 
executive session is necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only 
notification given to the public that the school committee would conduct business in 
private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or 
improper."); G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b), 21(b)(3); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
Because the Board did not meet in executive session on February 23, we find that 
the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by providing insufficient detail in the 
4 We remind the Board that a vote to convene in executive session must be taken by roll call. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(b)(2). It does not appear from the minutes that the Board followed this requirement. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
notice for that meeting. When a public body does not actually engage in deliberation on 
the noticed topic, the Open Meeting Law is not violated with respect to the sufficiency of 
the meeting notice. See OML 2015-63; OML 2014-81. However, the Board did convene 
in executive session on March 9 under Purpose 7, "to comply with, or act under the 
authority of, any general or special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements." G.L. c. 3OA, 
§ 21(a)(7). If a public body enters executive session under Puipose 7, it must cite the 
specific general or special law, or federal grant-in-aid requirement, that requires 
confidentiality or requires the public body to meet behind closed doors. See Dist. Attorney 
forN. Dist. v. School Committee of Wavland. 455 Mass. 561, 569 (2009) (explaining that 
the proper use of Purpose 7 to enter executive session requires the enumeration of the 
enabling law). Accordingly, even if the Board had properly listed the specific executive 
session topics below the heading "Executive Session to review and discuss," rather than 
under "New Business," the notice still would have been insufficient because it did not 
identify the statute requiring confidentiality (namely G.L. c. 59, § 60).5 This level of detail 
also should have been included in the chair's verbal statement prior to convening in 
executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(b)(3). Because neither the notice nor the verbal 
statement included this information, and because the notice was unclear about the topics to 
be discussed in executive session, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
As a result of these procedural violations, the Board may not rely upon the Open 
Meeting Law as the basis for continuing to withhold its March 9 executive session 
minutes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(1) (minutes of an executive session may be withheld from 
disclosure to the public as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of an 
executive session,/wov/t/et/ that the executive session was held in compliance with the 
Open Meeting LaM')-, OML 2014-42; OML 2014-30; OML 2014-17. The Board may 
continue to withhold the minutes from the general public, in whole or in part, under any 
applicable exemptions to the Public Records Law or the attorney-client privilege. G.L. 
c. 3OA, § 22(f). 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to include sufficient detail in the meeting notice and in the chair's verbal 
statement prior to the Board's March 9 executive session. The Board did not violate the 
law with respect to its February 23 meeting, however. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that future similar violations may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
5 See our FAQ on convening in executive session under Purpose 7 to discuss tax abatements, available on our 
website at: http://www.mass.gov/ago/government-resources/open-meeting-law/oml-faqs/abatements.html 
3 
===PAGE 4===
any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 