===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
July 29, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 143 
 
 
Rosann DiPietro, Esq. 
Long & DiPietro, LLP 
175 Derby Street, Unit 17 
Hingham, Massachusetts 02043 
 
By email only: rdipietro@long-law.com 
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney DiPietro: 
 
This office received a complaint from Deborah Wall on March 17, 2022, and a complaint 
from Michelle Haley on March 21, 2022, alleging that the Tewksbury School Committee (the 
“Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1  Ms. Wall’s complaint 
was originally filed with the Committee on February 11; Ms. Haley’s complaint was originally 
filed with the Committee on February 13; and you responded to both complaints, on behalf of the 
Committee, by separate letters dated March 3 and March 4, respectively.  Specifically, the 
complaints allege that the Committee improperly removed and denied members of the public 
from the meeting room during a meeting held on February 9. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the 
Committee’s responses to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting 
further review.  We also reviewed the notice and minutes of the Committee meeting held on 
February 9, we well as a video recording of that meeting.
2  Finally, we spoke separately with 
both complainants by telephone on July 20. 
 
 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2022. 
2 A video recording of the Committee meeting held on February 9 is available at: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pRQsJtJGejk.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
February 9 at 5 P.M.  The notice stated that the location of the meeting would be Tewksbury 
Memorial High School in the Large Group Instruction Room #1.  The notice also instructed that 
the meeting would be televised on Comcast Channel 22, Verizon Channel 34 and YouTube.  The 
notice listed 23 topics, including “a public hearing on the budget.”
3 
 
The February 9 meeting was held as planned.  After calling the meeting to order, the 
Committee convened in executive session for approximately one hour.  The Committee then 
reconvened in open session around 6:00 P.M. and heard from Business Manager David Libby 
who gave a presentation on the fiscal year 2023 school budget.  Approximately thirty minutes 
later, towards the end of Mr. Libby’s presentation, a large group of individuals from the 
Tewksbury Teachers’ Association entered the meeting room.
4  The Committee recessed for 
about five minutes. 
 
When the Committee reconvened from the recess, the Committee and audience members 
recited the pledge of allegiance.  Some members of the audience clapped at the conclusion of the 
pledge and Chair Keith Sullivan warned those in attendance that this would be “the final 
warning” as the next disruption would cause everyone to be removed from the meeting. 
 
The Committee briefly continued with the public hearing on the budget and then heard 
from the Tewksbury High School Student Representative.  The Committee then asked if any 
members of the public wished to speak on a specific item listed on the notice.  When the first 
speaker approached the podium, she provided her name and stated she wished to speak about the 
teacher’s contract.  Chair Sullivan explained that the contract was not on the notice and they 
were not there to “speak about the contract.”  Members of the public started to chant “Let her 
speak” and Committee Member Nicholas Parsons implored the Chair to let the public speak.  
Chair Sullivan again warned those in attendance that if they continued to be disruptive, he would 
have everyone removed.  Eventually, members of the public were allowed to speak about the 
budget and the Committee heard from eighteen individuals.  The Committee then recessed for 
ten minutes.   
 
When the Committee returned from its second recess, a member of the public approached 
the podium and asked to speak.  Chair Sullivan stated that if the individual continued to disrupt 
 
3 The notice also included an Executive Session “to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with 
employee groups and/or ongoing litigation and/or discussion of personnel matters.”  Although not raised in the 
complaints, we note our concern with the sufficiency of this topic and remind the Committee that when convening in 
executive session pursuant to Purpose 2 or Purpose 3, a public body must identify the collective bargaining unit with 
whom it will be negotiating or the litigation matter to be discussed, if doing so will not compromise the lawful 
purpose for secrecy.  See OML 2017-53; OML 2016-12; OML 2013-151; OML 2013-97.  Moreover, the Open 
Meeting Law does not contain an executive session purpose for general discussion of personnel matters, and we 
have stated in prior determinations that identifying an executive session as a discussion of a “personnel” issue is not 
a sufficiently specific statement of the executive session purpose.  See OML 2019-82; OML 2014-42; OML 2011-9.  
At a minimum, the Committee should state in its notice the statutory purpose that forms the basis for the anticipated 
executive session. 
4 The February 9 meeting minutes state that the large group of individuals that entered the room numbered about 150 
individuals.  Ms. Wall estimated that about 75 people entered the meeting room.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
the meeting, he would ask the police to remove him.  Committee Member Nicholas Parsons 
implored the Chair to let the individual speak and members of the public began chanting “Let 
him speak.”  The Chair warned members of the public that if they continued to disrupt the 
meeting, they would be removed.  The individual continued to ask the Chair to allow him to 
speak and members of the public again started to chant “Let him speak.”  Chair Sullivan asked 
the police, who were in the meeting room, to remove the individual from the meeting.  The 
crowd then started to boo and shout, and Chair Sullivan asked the police to “clear the room.”  
Committee Member Parsons left the meeting.  The police then escorted members of the public 
out of the meeting room and out of the building.  Once the meeting room was cleared of all 
individuals, the door to the room was closed and members of the public were not allowed back 
into the meeting room.  The Committee discussed the remaining topics listed on the notice over 
the next hour until they adjourned at 9:00 P.M. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when meeting in executive session, all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, §20(a).  In order to be open to the 
public, a meeting must be accessible to the public.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); OML 2014-3.
5  
Access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and 
hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2017-135; OML 
2015-38; OML 2014-3; OML 2013-189.    
 
The relevant facts in this case are not in dispute.  The meet
 ing became heated, the Chair 
stated several times that if individuals continued to be disruptive they would be removed, the 
police were asked to clear the meeting room, the doors were closed, members of the public were 
prevented from returning to the meeting room, and the Committee continued its deliberations.  
To instruct the entirety of the public in attendance to vacate a meeting location, close the doors, 
and continue to deliberate is a clear and substantial violation that strikes at the heart of the Open 
Meeting Law.  See 2020-7.  There is no more basic requirement of the Open Meeting Law than 
that meetings be open to the public.  Although a public body may order a person who continues 
to disrupt a meeting to withdraw from the meeting, and may authorize police to remove the 
disruptive person from the meeting, see G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g), here the Committee excluded every 
single member of the public from its meeting, closed the doors, and then proceeded with the 
meeting.  Therefore, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by denying the 
public access to the majority of its February 9 meeting.  See 2018-25.
 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by denying the public access to its February 9 meeting.  We order the Committee’s immediate 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar future violations
could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the
Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 it you have any questions
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Keny lume Kelaque.
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Deborah Wall - By email only:
Michelle Haley - By email only:
Tewksbury School Committee c/o Chair Bridget L. Garabedian - By email only:
bgarabedian@tewksbury.k12.ma.us
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.