===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 25, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 66 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Mariem Marquetti Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey, & Lehane, LLC 
300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410 
Quincy, MA 02169 
mmarquetti@mhtl.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Marquetti: 
This office received a complaint from Christine McCue Potts on January 9, 2023, 
alleging that the Medfield School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 11, 
2022, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated December 2, 2022.1 The 
complaint alleges that: (1) the Committee improperly deliberated over email; (2) the Committee 
deliberated outside an open meeting prior to changing a Facebook group title; and (3) a member 
of the Committee was not provided with prior Open Meeting Law determinations concerning 
previous violations of the Committee, which members are required to review upon taking office. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s 
response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed a 
video recording of the Committee’s October 13 meeting. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On March 29, 2021, Committee member Michelle Kirkby 
executed a “Certificate of Receipt of Open Meeting Law Materials,” which states, in part, that 
she had received “if applicable, a copy of each Open Meeting Law determination issued by the 
Attorney General within the last five (5) years to the public body of which [she is a] member and 
in which the Attorney General found a violation of the Open Meeting Law.” In an email on 
October 26, Ms. Kirkby stated that she did not receive any such materials. 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
In the summer of 2022, Ms. Kirkby was exploring the use of social media as method for 
the Committee to share news with the community. She created a Facebook group for the 
Committee on August 24. On October 10, the title of the Committee’s Facebook group page was 
changed from “Michelle Kirkby – Medfield School Committee” to “Medfield School 
Committee.” On October 12, Ms. Kirkby sent the following email to all the members of the 
Committee, constituting a quorum, with the subject line “Social Medial Prototype Pages.” 
Hey Team, 
FYI - Sharing this to be discussed tomorrow. 
Facebook - https://www.facebook.com/MedfieldSC 
Instagram - https://www.instagram.com/rnedfield.school.committee/ 
Twitter - https://twitter.com/medfield_sc 
Thanks, 
M 
 
Ms. Kirkby did not add any additional commentary, and no one responded to the email. During 
the meeting held the next day, on October 13, she referenced the links she sent to the members 
and suggested that the Committee use social media as a tool to communicate with community 
members and parents.  
DISCUSSION 
1. The Committee Did Not Did Improperly Deliberate Over Email. 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-
(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, 
however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling 
information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or 
documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A one-way communication from one public body member to a 
quorum on business within a body’s jurisdiction is deliberation, even if no other members 
respond. See OML 2020-136.
2 
 
The complaint alleges that the October 12 email sent by Committee member Michelle 
Kirkby containing links to social media templates to all the members of the Committee 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-m eeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
constitutes deliberation outside a posted meeting. The Committee responds that Ms. Kirkby’s 
email was to share information to be discussed at an open meeting, which falls under the 
exception that allows Committee members to share documents or information “that may be 
discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
We agree. Ms. Kirkby wrote in her email, “FYI - Sharing this to be discussed tomorrow[,]” and 
included a link to social media templates to be considered at the Committee’s next meeting. She 
added no further commentary in the email. The complainant asserts that the social media 
templates constitute deliberation because they conveyed Ms. Kirkby’s opinion on how the 
Committee should represent itself on social media. Such an assertion essentially suggests that 
distributing the social media links for further discussion necessarily constituted endorsement of 
their content, and thus an expression of opinion. We do not construe the Open Meeting Law’s 
exception for distribution of reports or documents so narrowly. Ms. Kirkby did not actually offer 
her opinion on the topic until the Committee’s next meeting, when she opined that social media 
could be a valuable tool to share information with the community. Accordingly, we do not find 
that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when one of its members shared links to 
social media templates to be discussed at the Committee’s next meeting. 
2. We Do Not Have Evidence of Improper Deliberation Before 
 A Committee Member 
Changed The Title of The Committee’s Facebook Group. 
Next, the complaint alleges that improper deliberation occurred when Ms. Kirkby 
changed the title of the Committee’s Facebook Group and speculated that “having only been in 
office for less than five months, it is highly unlikely she waited until Oct. 12, 2022[,] to involve 
other School Committee members (including the chair) in the undertaking of developing new 
social media sites.” The complainant does not provide any additional information to support the 
allegation that improper deliberation occurred, such as when such deliberation allegedly occurred 
or who was involved. The Committee denies that any deliberation occurred, and that Ms. Kirkby 
changed the original title of the Facebook group that included her name to the “Medfield School 
Committee” on her own. Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s 
account of the facts. See OML 2019-73; OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141; see also LaPointe v. 
License Board of Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) (“There is every presumption in favor of the 
honesty and sufficiency of the motives actuating public officers in actions ostensibly taken for 
the general welfare.”). Therefore, we do not find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law. 
3. The Committee Did Not Violate The Open Meeting Law When A Committee Mem
 ber 
Did Not Receive Open Meeting Law Determinations. 
Finally, the complaint alleges that Ms. Kirkby violated the Open Meeting Law when she 
certified that, to the extent applicable, she received and reviewed each Open Meeting Law 
determination issued to the public body within the last five years in which our office found a 
violation but did not actually receive any determinations even though such determinations had 
been issued to the Committee. The Open Meeting Law requires that “within 2 weeks of 
qualification for office, all persons serving on a public body shall certify, on a form prescribed 
by the attorney general, the receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, regulations promulgated 
pursuant to section 25 and a copy of the educational materials prepared by the attorney general 
explaining the open meeting law and its application pursuant to section 19.... The certification 
shall be evidence that the member of a public body has read and understands the requirements of 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
the open meeting law and the consequences of violating it.” G.L. c. 30A § 20(h). “For local 
public bodies, the municipal clerk, and for all other public bodies, the appointing authority, 
executive director, or other appropriate administrator or their designees, shall, upon a public 
body member’s qualification for office, either deliver to the public body member, or require the 
public body member to obtain from the Attorney General’s website . . . a copy of each Open 
Meeting Law determination issued to the public body within the last five years in which our 
office found a violation.” 940 CMR 29.04(1).  
Ms. Kirkby states that she did not receive any Open Meeting Law determinations upon 
becomin
g a Committee member and the Committee concedes that the failure to provide her with 
the determinations was an oversight. Because the responsibility of providing the materials falls 
on the municipal clerk, and the Committee itself is not directly responsible for providing these 
materials to new public body members, we do not find that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law with respect to this allegation. See OML 2022-150. We credit the Committee for 
providing the determinations since the complaint was filed. However, we take this opportunity to 
remind the Town of Medfield that upon election, reelection, appointment or reappointment, a 
member of a Town public body must be provided with the Open Meeting Law educational 
materials listed above and must certify receipt of those materials. This is vitally important as it 
ensures that the Town’s public body members are aware of the Open Meeting Law and how to 
comply with it. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we do not find that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Mary L. Nguyen 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: C hristine McCue Potts (via e-mail ) 
 Medf
ield School Committee (via e-mail: scchair@email.medfield.net) 
 Medfield Town Clerk (via e- mail:  jmullen@medfield.net) 
 
 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 