===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
  
March 23, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 56 
 
 
VIA EMAIL  
 
Victoria B. Caldwell, Esq. 
Assistant City Solicitor 
City of Salem 
93 Washington Street 
Salem, MA 01970 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Caldwell: 
 
This office received a complaint from Alvaro Ibanez on June 28, 2021,1 alleging that the 
Salem City Council Committee on Ordinances, Licensing and Legal Affairs (the “Committee”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with 
the Committee on May 26, and the Committee responded on June 14.   Specifically, the 
complaint alleges that the Committee created a wetlands working group (the “Group”) to work 
on amendments to the City’s wetlands ordinances, and that the Group met on several occasions 
but failed to comply with the Open Meeting Law.  Although the complaint alleges that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by creating a working group which did not conduct 
its work in accordance with the Open Meeting Law, thus focusing on the Committee’s actions in 
creating the Group, there are no allegations in the Complaint that the Committee itself engaged 
in deliberations outside of a posted meeting in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  Instead, we 
review whether the Group is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law.    
 
Following our review, we find that the Group is not a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, and neither the Committee nor the Group violated the Law.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response, and 
the request for further review.  We also communicated with counsel for the Committee by phone 
 
1 All dates in this determination are in 2021, unless otherwise stated.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
and email in October 2021, reviewed documents submitted by counsel, and reviewed email 
correspondence from Mr. Albanez.2  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  At some point prior to September 2020, Tom Devine, 
Senior Planner for the City of Salem, assembled an informal advisory group to provide input to 
him on wetlands issues impacting the City; this is the Group to which the complaint refers.  The 
Group had no formal membership, but among those individuals with whom Mr. Devine 
consulted from time to time for input and expertise on wetlands issues were City conservation, 
planning, and engineering staff members; representatives of the City’s Planning Board, 
Conservation Commission, and City Council; representatives of local environmental advocacy 
organizations; and residents.  During the fall of 2020, Mr. Devine held advisory meetings about 
wetlands matters with some of those individuals; no action was taken or decisions made at those 
meetings.  
 
In February 2021, frustrated by a lack of progress on wetlands issues, City Councilor 
Patti Morsillo followed up with Tom Daniel, the City’s Director of Planning.  Mr. Daniel 
responded that Mr. Devine would schedule another meeting of the Group.  That meeting took 
place on February 22, 2021.    
 
Shortly thereafter, at a meeting of the City Council on February 25, 2021, the City 
Council voted to issue an Order requiring the Committee to review the City’s Wetlands 
Ordinance and Flood Hazard Overlay District Zoning Ordinance.  In May 2021, the Complainant 
requested a status update from Councilor Morsillo, who responded that the Group had been 
meeting and that updated wetlands and floodplain regulations was a priority for the City.  That 
correspondence referring to meetings of the Group led to the filing of this Open Meeting Law 
complaint.   
 
As of at least September 2021, the Committee still had not taken up the wetlands 
ordinances review.  However, in the meantime, Mr. Devine continued to meet with the Group, 
which, along with a hired consultant, worked to review existing ordinances to identify where the 
ordinances might be amended to provide for stronger wetlands protections.  The Group 
eventually held public forums to provide an opportunity for public input.  In his capacity as 
Senior Planner, Mr. Devine used input from the Group as well as that provided during the public 
forums to draft revised ordinances for the City Council’s consideration.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law applies to public bodies, which 
are defined, in relevant part, as “a multiple member board, commission, committee or 
subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any county, district, city, 
 
2 Despite exchanging several emails and phone messages between December 2021 and February 2022, we were 
unable to speak with Mr. Albanez by phone. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve 
a public purpose.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  A “subcommittee” is defined as a “multiple-member body 
created to advise or make recommendations to a public body.”  Id.  Any public body subject to 
the Open Meeting Law must, “[e]xcept in an emergency, . . . post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b).  Meetings of such bodies, unless lawfully convened in executive session, must be open 
to the public, and accurate minutes must be kept for all meetings, including executive sessions. 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 22(a).  
 
The Supreme Judicial Court recognized an exception to the Open Meeting Law’s 
definition of public body in Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991).  
In Connelly, the Court held that where an individual public official, who is not himself subject to 
the Open Meeting Law, creates a group to “assist him in carrying out his responsibility,” that 
group is not subject to the Open Meeting Law.  Connelly, 409 Mass. at 235. 
 
 We find that although authority for final approval of any amendments to the wetlands 
ordinances rested with the City Council, responsibility for researching and proposing drafts for 
the City Council’s consideration rests with Planning Department staff and, in this instance, with 
Mr. Devine.  Counsel explained that City staff, and in particular those in the Planning 
Department, are responsible for drafting ordinances for consideration by the Committee and the 
City Council, which then further discuss and vet the draft ordinances during open meetings.  
Although staff members’ job responsibilities include drafting ordinances, they routinely seek 
input from other individuals with particular subject matter expertise to aid in the performance of 
their job responsibilities.  Furthermore, Planning Department staff, such as Mr. Devine, are 
generally aware of issues of concern in the City and work proactively on those issues; in this 
instance, Mr. Devine was working on reviewing the City’s wetlands ordinances, with input from 
the Group, long before the City Council issued its Order requiring the Committee to review the 
City’s Wetlands Ordinance and Flood Hazard Overlay District Zoning Ordinance. 
 
On these facts, we find that where Mr. Devine, as Senior Planner, had responsibility for 
reviewing the City’s wetlands ordinances and drafting proposed amendments, and he assembled 
the Group to assist him in carrying out that responsibility, the Group was not subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, and could not have violated the Law.  See Connelly, 409 Mass. at 235.  Because 
we find the Group was not subject to the Open Meeting Law for this reason, we need not address 
the Committee’s assertion that the Group is not a “public body” subject to the Open Meeting 
Law because it is not a “body empowered to act collectively.”  See OML 2019-135; OML 2011-
52; OML 2010-1.3 
 
  
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Group is not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law, and therefore neither the Group nor the Committee violated the Law.  We 
now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This determination 
does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office, the Committee, or 
the Group.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Alvaro Ibanez (via email: )  
  
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
