===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 10, 2016 
OML 2016-103 
Robert Douglas, Director of Conservation 
Town of Andover 
36 Bartlett Street 
Andover, MA 01810 
RE: Open Meeting Law Comnlaint 
Dear Mr. Douglas: 
Lhis office received two related complaints from Lara Wilson and Jason Ardizzone 
alleging that the Andover Conservation Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, Ms. Wilson's complaint was originally filed with the 
Commission on February 15, and the Commission responded by letter dated February 17.' Mr. 
Ardizzone's complaint was filed with the Commission on March 23, and the Commission 
responded by letter dated March 24. Both complaints were filed with our office on May 2. In 
the complaints, Ms. Wilson and Mr. Ardizzone allege that the Commission violated the Open 
Meeting Law by discussing anticipated topics during two meetings that had not been listed on 
the respective meeting notices.2 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Commission's 
responses, and the requests for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notices 
and minutes of Commission meetings held on February 2 and 16. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 The complaints also contain allegations that, even if proven true, would not constitute violations of the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaints allege that the Conservation Director made 
untrue statements during a meeting and that residents who were the subject of a Commission discussion did not 
receive individualized notice. Because these allegations do not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law, we 
decline to review them. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. At issue are two Commission meetings held on February 2 
and 16. On January 25, the Commission posted notice of a meeting to take place on February 2. 
On February 1, an environmental inspector conducted an on-site inspection of property 
belonging to both complainants located at 83 Porter Road in Andover. On the morning of 
February 2, the inspector sent his findings by e-mail to the Town Conservation Director stating 
that the property was not in compliance with an Order of Conditions on the land. The 
Commission held its February 2 meeting as planned. During the meeting, the Conservation 
Director presented a prepared enforcement order concerning the 83 Porter Road property. See 
G.L. c. 131, § 40. Specifically, the enforcement order concerned sedimentation barriers and the 
placement of solar panels. One Commissioner recused herself from the discussion, but all other 
Commissioners voted in favor of issuing the enforcement order. 
On February 5, the complainants sent a letter to the Commission objecting to the vote 
during the February 2 meeting to impose the enforcement order. On February 9, the 
Commission's secretary sent an e-mail to both complainants, along with the environmental 
inspector, entitled "83 Porter Road." This e-mail stated that a discussion of hay bales and a 
request for insignificant changes would be added to the Commission's March 1 meeting agenda. 
On February 11, the Commission posted notice of a meeting to take place on February 
16. At that time, the notice did not include mention of the 83 Porter Road property. On Friday, 
February 12, the environmental inspector conducted another site inspection of the property, after 
which it was determined that the property was in compliance. On this date, the inspector came to 
the Commission office to verbally report his findings. Monday, February 15 was a federal 
holiday. On February 16—the day of the meeting—the Commission posted a revised notice that 
included the 83 Porter Road property. The Commission held the February 16 meeting as 
planned. Ms. Wilson was present for this meeting. During the meeting, the Commission 
discussed the 83 Porter Road property, noting that the complainants had complied with the 
enforcement order. Ms. Wilson requested that the discussion be delayed until the Commission's 
March 1 meeting. This request was denied. Ms. Wilson stated that she believed the enforcement 
order had been improperly issued and that she wanted it "rescinded"—that is, removed from the 
public record. The Commission voted to lift the enforcement order, but it did not remove it from 
the public record. 
On February 19, the Commission posted notice of a meeting to be held on March 1. The 
notice stated that the Commission would discuss the 83 Porter Road property. The Commission 
held the March 1 meeting as planned. During this meeting, Ms. Wilson again requested that the 
enforcement order be removed from the public record. Again, the Commission did not remove 
the enforcement order from the public record. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post a meeting notice 48 hours in 
advance of a meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, and include "the date, 
time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a 
meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(1 )(b). We generally consider a topic to be 
sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand 
what the nature of the public body's discussion will be. See OML 2016-38; OML 2015-74.3 
The first complaint alleges that the Commission failed to list the discussion of 83 Porter 
Road on its February 2 meeting notice. At that meeting, the Conservation Director, who is not a 
member of the Commission, raised the issue of the enforcement order. Indeed, the Conservation 
Director only learned of the inspector's report on the morning of February 2. We therefore find 
that the Commission chair did not reasonably anticipate discussing this issue 48 hours in advance 
of the February 2 meeting, and the Commission therefore did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to include this discussion from the meeting notice. See OML 2013-44. Whenever 
possible, we encourage public bodies to postpone discussion of unanticipated topics so that they 
may be included on a future meeting notice. See OML 2011-36. 
The second complaint alleges that the Commission failed to list the discussion of the 
complainants' property on the February 16 meeting notice. February 16 was a Tuesday. 
Because weekends and legal holidays are not counted towards a public body's obligation to post 
notices 48 hours in advance of the meeting, see G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b), notices for Tuesday 
meetings must typically be posted no later than the previous Friday. However, because Monday, 
February 15 was a legal holiday, the Commission was required to post notice of its Tuesday 
meeting no later than the previous Thursday. Indeed, the original version of the notice was 
posted on Thursday, February 11. The Commission became aware following the inspector's 
report on Friday, February 12 that the 83 Porter Road property was in compliance. Therefore, 
the original version of the notice, posted 48 hours in advance of the meeting, excluding the 
weekend and the Monday holiday, contained the topics that the chair anticipated discussing at 
that time. Because the Commission chair could not have anticipated discussing the property at 
issue at the time the notice was posted, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law with respect to this allegation.4 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 In Mr. Ardizzone's complaint, he alleges that the Commission secretary misinformed him in the February 9 e-mail 
about when the property at issue would be discussed. We note that the secretary is an individual town employee and 
is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. However, we also note that the 
February 9 e-mail from the Commission's secretary to Mr. Ardizzone references a matter other than the one 
discussed during the Commission's February 16 meeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Mangar 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Tara Wilson 
Jason Ardizzone 
Andover Conservation Commission 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 