===PAGE 1===
w 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 21, 2015 
OML 2015-195 
Ruth J. Weil, Esq. 
Town Attorney 
Town of Barnstable 
367 Main Street 
Hyannis, MA 02601 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Weil: 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty on October 22, alleging that the 
Barnstable Town Manager Search Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 Specifically, the complaint alleges that during the Committee's 
September 29 meeting, the Committee discussed a topic that was not listed in the meeting notice. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on October 1. The Committee responded 
by letter dated October 16. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Committee, the 
Committee's response and attachments, and the complaint filed with our office. Additionally, 
we spoke with Mr. Beaty by telephone on November 9. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a 7-member public body created by the 
Barnstable Town Council. The notice for the Committee's September 29 meeting listed ten 
topics, including "Public Comment" and "Committee response to Public Comment." During the 
1 All dates refer to the year 2015. 
===PAGE 2===
Public Comment portion of the meeting, any person may address the Committee, and raise any 
topic, at the Chair's discretion. At the September 29 meeting, during the Public Comment 
period, a Town councilor, who was not a member of the Committee, addressed the Committee 
and suggested that the Committee be disbanded. During the Committee's response to Public 
Comment, a Committee member responded to the comment and explained that she had spoken 
with the Town Council President regarding disbanding the Committee. The Town Council 
President is not the chair of the Committee. The Committee Chair did not know prior to the 
meeting that a member of the Town Council would raise the issue during the Public Comment 
portion of the meeting. The Committee did not take any action at the September 29 meeting with 
respect to the suggestion that it disband. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law states that "[ejxcept in an emergency... a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays. In an emergency, a public body shall post notice as soon as reasonably 
possible prior to such meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The meeting notice must include "the 
date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed at the meeting" (emphasis added). Id. 
Here, we find that the Chair did not anticipate discussing the possible dissolution of the 
Committee prior to the September 29 meeting. Although a Committee member may have 
discussed disbanding the Committee with the Town Council President prior to September 29, the 
Chair was not a part of that conversation and did not anticipate the topic being raised for 
discussion ahead of the Committee's September 29 meeting. We therefore find that the Chair 
was not required to list it in the notice, and the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
by discussing the topic. OML 2015-76; OML 2015-12.2 We note that as a best practice our 
office recommends that, whenever possible, public bodies postpone discussion of topics that 
arise during a meeting, so that members of the public may be given advance notice of agenda 
items.3 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 See Open Meeting Law Frequently Asked Questions: 
May a public body consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice? 
Yes, if it is a topic that the chair did not reasonably anticipate 48 hours before the meeting. If a meeting topic is 
proposed after the meeting notice is posted, the public body is encouraged to update its posting to provide the public 
with as much notice as possible of what subjects will be discussed during a meeting. Although a public body may 
consider a topic that was not listed in the meeting notice if unanticipated, the Attorney General strongly encourages 
public bodies to postpone discussion and action on topics that are controversial or may be of particular interest to the 
public if those topics were not listed in the meeting notice. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not 
resolve any other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Committee. Please 
feel free to contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Town Manager Search Committee 
Ronald Beaty 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. e. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 