===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
October 11, 2018
OML 2018-135
Jane Keegan, Chair
Uxbridge Historic District Commission 
21 South Main Street 
Uxbridge, MA 01569
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Ms. Keegan:
This office received four related complaints from Melissa Haskell alleging that the 
Uxbridge Historic District Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were filed with the Commission on March 14, and, after 
an extension of time was granted by our office, the Commission responded by letter on or about 
April 4.1 The complaints were then filed with our office on May 10. In the complaints, Ms. 
Haskell alleges that the Commission deliberated outside of a noticed meeting on several 
occasions.2
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged in the complaint. However, we find that the violations addressed in this letter were not 
intentional. Further, we find that certain allegations in the complaints are untimely. In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Commission’s response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed a supplementary reply from 
Commission members Michael Cove and Faye McCloskey dated April 2, as well as 
supplementary responses from Commission member Travis DoRosario dated April 2 and 3. 
Finally, we spoke with now-Commission chair Jane Keegan by telephone on September 10.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Commission is composed of five voting members and 
three non-voting alternates. Because non-voting alternates do not count for the purpose of
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 One complaint alleges that two Commission members acted on the Commission’ s behalf without proper 
authorization. This allegation, even if true, would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law. See Open 
Meeting Law Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners).

===PAGE 2===
measuring quorum, the Commission’s quorum is three members. At all times relevant to the 
present complaints, the complainant was a member of the Commission.
Beginning in Fall 2017, the Commission began discussing the potential expansion of the 
historic district in Uxbridge. At that time, three out of five voting Commission members were in 
favor of the expansion. Although it does not appear that the Commission took a formal vote, the 
Commission determined in Fall 2017 that three non-alternate Commission members—Jane 
Keegan, Faye McCloskey, and Travis DoRosario— would prepare a report on the proposed 
district expansion for submission to the Massachusetts Historical Commission. These three 
members worked collaboratively to prepare a draft report, but they did not post notice of any 
meetings. On January 30, Commission member Jane Keegan circulated the draft report that she 
had created with Ms. McCloskey and Ms. DoRosario to the other Commission members by e- 
mail.
On February 27, Ms. Keegan, Ms. McCloskey, and Ms. DoRosario met with a reporter 
from the Blackstone Valley Xpress newspaper. The three Commission members did not post 
notice of this meeting. They discussed with the reporter the upcoming town meeting vote and 
advocated for the passage of the bylaw, explaining the Commission’s motivations for approving 
the measure. The resulting article was published on or about March 12.
On March 5, Ms. Keegan, Ms. McCloskey, and Ms. DoRosario met at a private residence 
to discuss an upcoming local television interview concerning the proposed bylaw. Again, the 
three members did not post notice of this meeting. This meeting was described as a “rehearsal” 
during which the members discussed a “script” that could be used to advocate for the proposed 
bylaw during the television interview.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30 A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. The Open Meeting Law’s purpose is “to eliminate much of the secrecy 
surrounding deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School 
Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as 
“a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.” G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18. The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction^]” Id.
The complaints allege that the three events described above constituted improper 
deliberation—the January 30 e-mail containing the draft report; the February 27 interview; and 
the March 5 meeting at a private home.3 The January 30 e-mail distributed the draft report, 
which contained the opinions of Commission members. See Boelter v. Board of Selectmen of
3 Although not raised in the complaints, it seems likely that the three members assigned to work on the report 
constituted a subcommittee independently responsible for compliance with the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 18 (defining a “subcommittee” as “any multiple-member body created to advise or make recommendations 
to a public body”). We take this opportunity to remind the Commission, if it creates such subcommittees in the 
future, that they must follow the Open Meeting Law’s requirements, including posting notice and maintaining 
minutes.
2

===PAGE 3===
Wayland, 479 Mass. 233, 243 (2018) (distribution of an aggregated employment review violated 
the Open Meeting Law, because it communicated the opinions of board members to a quorum of 
the board).4 However, we note that the complainant, as a Commission member, was copied on 
the January 30 e-mail and therefore had knowledge of it at that time. We therefore find that this 
particular allegation was untimely filed, and we decline to review it further. See 940 CMR 
29.05(3) (complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed within 30 days 
of the alleged violation, or, if the alleged violation could not reasonably have been known at the 
time it occurred, then within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered).
Turning to the remaining two events, a quorum of the Commission was present at the 
February 27 interview and the March 5 meeting. On both dates, the members present discussed 
business within the Commission’s jurisdiction—namely, the proposed bylaw, which a majority 
of the Commission had endorsed. Those discussions constituted deliberations that should have 
been reserved for a properly-noticed public meeting, and therefore were held in violation of the 
Open Meeting Law. See OML 2016-31.5 The Commission’s chair stated to our office that any 
violations were unintentional, as the Commission members—by meeting with a reporter and 
preparing for a television interview—were merely working to ensure that members of the 
community were educated about the proposed bylaw. We credit this statement, but nevertheless 
find that the actions described above violated the Open Meeting Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law. We order the Commission’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to 
violate the law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions.
cc: Melissa Haskell
Sincerely,
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
4 We note that even if the report had contained solely the opinion of a single member its distribution to a quorum 
would have violated the Open Meeting Law.
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
4
