===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
January 31, 2019 
OML 2019-5
Benjamin Coyle, Esq.
Bacon Wilson, P.C.
33 State Street 
Springfield, MA 01103
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Coyle:
This office received a complaint from Roxanne Gunther on June 18, 2018, alleging 
that the Monson Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about April 4, 2018, 
and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, in a letter dated April 27, 2018. 
In her complaint, Ms. Gunther alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a noticed meeting 
prior to the submission of an application to the Community Preservation Committee for a 
spray park in town on March 1, 2018.
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
communicated with you by telephone and email on December 5, December 27 and January 8, 
2019.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. At a Special Town Meeting held on November 6, 2017, 
residents declined to approve the appropriation and borrowing of funds necessary for the 
construction of a spray park. Despite this vote, the Town Administrator continued to pursue 
the issue. He and the Town Planner submitted an application to the Community Preservation 
Committee on March 1, 2018. The Town Administrator also had a conversation with the 
Board Chair in early March 2018 regarding the spray park, indicating to the Chair that Town 
employees had received feedback from some parents who had expressed a desire to seek 
another vote at Town Meeting for funding a spray park. As a result of this conversation, the 
Chair decided to add “Spray Park Committee” to the agenda for the Board’s March 20, 2018

===PAGE 2===
meeting for the Board to consider creating a committee to explore the issue. In response to 
this complaint, during its April 24, 2018 meeting, the Board voted to ratify and confirm the 
delegation of authority to the Town Administrator to pursue grant funding on behalf of the 
Board for projects such as a spray park.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
pubic body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive 
session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant 
part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s 
jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum 
of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 
‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the 
distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided than no 
opinion of a member is expressed.” IdL For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a 
“quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id
The complaint alleges that it appears the Board deliberated privately about an 
application submitted to the Conservation Preservation Committee for funding a spray park 
because it did not discuss the application during a meeting prior to its submission. The Board 
responds that the Town Administrator submitted the application on his own, as the Town’s 
Chief Administrative Officer, along with the Town Planner, and did not seek the Board’s 
approval prior to its submission. Following the submission of the application, the Town 
Administrator informed the Board’s Chair that several parents had approached town 
employees to express their support for a spray park. Based on this conversation, the Chair 
decided that the Board should consider creating a committee to explore the issue and placed 
the topic, “Spray Park Committee,” on the Board’s March 20, 2018 meeting notice. The 
conversation between the Town Administrator, who is not a member of the Board, and the 
Chair did not constitute deliberation, as defined in the law. See OML 2017-69; see also OML 
2017-125 (“[a] nonmember of a public body may communicate with a public body as long as 
the non-member does not facilitate communication between or among a quorum of the public 
body”).1 Furthermore, we find no evidence that the Board otherwise discussed the spray park 
with each other, or via the Town Administrator, outside of a meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
Accordingly, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.
1 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2
I I IL

===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Hanne Rush
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Roxanne Gunther
Monson Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
3
