===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
June 17,2019 
OML 2019-71
Alan Seewald, Esq.
Northampton City Solicitor 
210 Main Street, Room 12 
Northampton, MA 01060
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Seewald:
This office received a complaint from William Meyer on February 5, 2019, alleging that 
the Northampton Mayor’s Work Group on Panhandling (the “Work Group”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Work Group 
on November 5, 2018, and the Work Group responded by letter dated November 28, 2018. In 
his complaint, Mr. Meyer alleges that the Work Group is a public body which has met at least ten 
times without complying with the notice or minutes requirements of the Open Meeting Law.
Following our review, we find that the Work Group is not a public body within the 
jurisdiction of the Open Meeting Law and therefore the Work Group has not violated the Open 
Meeting Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the response 
from the Work Group, and the request for further review. We also examined publicly available 
information about the Work Group on the Northampton Mayor’s Office website.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. In the spring of 2017, Mayor Narkewicz formed the Work 
Group to study the issue of panhandling, its underlying causes, and potential non-legislative/non- 
punitive ways of addressing it and the needs of at-risk populations in downtown Northampton. 
The goal of the Work Group is to comprehensively research the issue and potentially make 
recommendations to the Mayor on how to improve the situation. The Work Group’s members 
included representatives from service providers, business associations, the Northampton Police 
and one member from the City Council. The group has met many times and conducted public 
surveys.

===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law defines a “public body,” in relevant part, as “a multiple member 
board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or 
within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Supreme Judicial 
Court recognized an exemption to the Open Meeting Law’s definition of “public body” in 
Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover. 409 Mass. 232 (1991). In Connelly, the Court held 
that where an individual public official creates a committee to advise that person on a decision 
that he has the sole authority to make, that committee is not subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
Connelly, 409 Mass, at 235.
Here, the complaint alleges that the Work Group is a public body subject to the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law. We disagree and find that the Work Group fits squarely 
within the Connelly exception. We find that the Mayor is an individual public official who 
created the Work Group and retains the authority to take executive actions regarding 
panhandling regardless of any Work Group’s recommendations.1 The Work Group is not 
empowered to take any legislative or executive actions, merely make recommendations to the 
Mayor. For these reasons, we find that the Work Group takes the form of an advisory committee 
to an individual public official, like the one in Connelly. See OML 2018-136.
In addition, the fact that a City Council member was a part of the Work Group does not 
change the nature of the Work Group. Indeed, in Connelly, two members of the advisory 
committee were also members of a legislative body, the local school committee. We therefore 
conclude that the Work Group meets the standards of the Connelly exception and is therefore not 
subject to the Open Meeting Law and did not violate its requirements.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Work Group is not a public body within the 
jurisdiction of the Open Meeting Law and therefore the Work Group has not violated the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Work Group. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions.
Sincerely,
Sarah Chase
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
1 The Complainant argues that, because the Work Group has conducted public surveys, the Work Group is acting 
like a public body because it is engaging with the public. However, the important consideration under Connelly is 
whether a body was appointed to advise a single pubic official on a decision that he has the sole authority to make.

===PAGE 3===
cc: William  Meyer
Northampton Mayor’s Work Group on Panhandling
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3
