===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
June 19, 2018 
OML 2018 - 84 
Douglas W. Helm, Town Counsel 
Town of Arlington 
50 Pleasant Street 
Arlington, MA 02476 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Helm: 
This office received a complaint from Christopher Loreti, dated April 27, 2018, alleging 
that the Arlington Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 16, 2018, and the 
Board responded by letter dated March 19, 2018.1 In his complaint, Mr. Loreti alleges that the 
Board deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's reply, and the request 
for further review filed with our office. We spoke with Arlington town counsel by telephone on 
May 31, 2018, and we spoke with the complainant by telephone on June 1, 2018.2 Finally, we 
reviewed a video recording of a Board meeting held on June 19, 2017.3 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. Under Arlington's Town Manager Act, "[t]he Town 
Manager shall, with the approval of the selectmen, have authority to prosecute, defend and 
compromise all litigation, except that which pertains to tax assessments and abatements, to 
which the town is a party, and to employ special counsel to assist the town counsel whenever in 
his judgment it may be necessary." 
1 While not raised in the complaint, we remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 
business days after receiving a complaint, unless an extension has been granted by the Attorney General, a public 
body must review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General 
a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
3 The video recording is available here: http://acmi.tv/videos/selectmen-meeting-june-19-2017/. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
On September 27, 2016, the Arlington Zoning Board of Appeals (the "ZBA") voted to 
assert safe harbor status regarding a permit application under G.L. c. 40B. The applicant 
subsequently appealed the ZBA's September 27, 2016 decision to the Department of Housing 
and Community Development ("DHCD"), and DHCD overruled the ZBA's decision. The Board 
held a meeting on November 14, 2016, during which the Board voted to approve a letter 
expressing general support for the ZBA's authority to assert safe harbor status. On November 
29, 2016, the ZBA voted to appeal the DHCD decisions to the Housing Appeals Committee 
("HAC"). As part of this HAC appeal, the ZBA's outside litigation counsel sent a subpoena 
seeking certain documents from two state agencies. After these agencies allegedly failed to 
provide the requested documents, the ZBA filed a lawsuit to enforce the subpoena on June 5, 
2017. 
On June 19, 2017, during a Board meeting, town counsel provided an update on legal 
matters within the town. Without mentioning the ZBA by name, town counsel stated that a suit 
would be filed. This update was made during the portion of the agenda reserved for "New 
Business," and it was not listed separately on the meeting notice. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires all meetings of public bodies to be open to members of 
the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). The Open Meeting Law defines a "meeting" as "a deliberation 
by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
"Deliberation" is, in turn, defined as, "an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business 
within its jurisdiction." Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is generally a 
simple majority of the members of the public body. Id 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a noticed meeting to 
authorize the ZBA to bring suit to enforce the subpoena. In support of this allegation, the 
complaint points to the Town Manager Act, which requires the Board to authorize litigation. 
Because the Board took no action during a posted meeting, the complaint urges, the Board must 
have met or conversed outside of a posted meeting to authorize the litigation. As an initial 
matter, the Board argues that the allegations in the complaint are untimely. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(1), (3) (complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be 
filed with the public body within 30 days of the alleged violation, or, if the violation was not 
immediately discoverable at the time it occurred, within 30 days of the date at which the alleged 
violation could have been reasonably discovered). The Board points to the June 19, 2017 update 
from its legal counsel, which took place during open session, as evidence that the dispute had 
been sufficiently discussed in public such that a reasonable member of the public would know 
that litigation was afoot. After reviewing the video recording of the June 19, 2017 meeting, we 
are not persuaded by the Board's argument that lawsuit was well-known in town. During his 
update, town counsel did not mention the ZBA by name and implied that litigation would be 
forthcoming, even though the ZBA lawsuit had already been filed. We do not believe that this 
was sufficient to put a reasonable member of the public on notice. 
The above notwithstanding, even as we consider the allegations in this complaint to be 
timely, we have not found any evidence supporting the inference that the Board deliberated 
outside of a noticed meeting. The complaint relies on the implication that some sort of improper 
2 
===PAGE 3===
communication must have taken place, yet this appears to be, at bottom, a dispute over whether 
Arlington's Town Manager Act required the Board to authorize the ZBA's suit to enforce the 
subpoena. This is a dispute over which our office has no jurisdiction. See OML Declination 5-
21-212 (Hampden-Wilbraham Regional School Committee) (our jurisdiction concerns the Open 
Meeting Law, and we do not investigate tangential allegations).4 Town counsel maintains that a 
separate vote by the Board is not required in this circumstance, and, indeed, the Board denies any 
such vote or discussion, either during a meeting or outside of one.5 See OML 2015-8 (absent 
sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body's version of the facts). We take no 
position on whether such a vote was required in this case, and we find that the Board did not 
deliberate outside of a noticed meeting. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Christopher Loreti 
Arlington Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 Open Meeting Law declinations and determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass. go v/ago/openmeeting. 
5 To the extent that the Board's response argues that the November 14, 2016 letter from the Board to the ZBA 
amounts to a tacit approval of future legal action, we take no position on that question. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kev 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 