===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH -OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
June 8, 2011 
OML 2011 — 23 
Diana Provencher 
Chair 
Leicester Board of Selectmen 
3 Washburn Sq. 
Leicester, MA 01524 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Provencher: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Michael Shivick, dated February 14, 2011, 
alleging that the Leicester Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board's vote to approve a 
"trial-period consolidation" of two municipal positions was not a topic included in the Board's 
notice for its January 10, 2011 meeting, though the Board "extensively deliberated on and 
ratified" the topic. Additionally, the complaint alleges that Town Administrator Robert Reed, 
under the authority of the Board, "appears to have committed a negligent misrepresentation of 
material fact by having the Board of Selectmen's primary secretary call the Personnel Board 
Chairman, in order to deter him from offering any opinion, suggestion recommendation, or 
explanation regarding a personnel action under the Board's concurrent jurisdiction." The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about January 19, 2011 and an amended 
complaint was filed with Board on January 23, 2011. The Board responded to the complaint in a 
letter dated February 1, 2011. 
We find that the Leicester Board of Selectmen did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the January 19, January 23, and February 14, 2011 
complaints; the Board's February 1, 2011 response to the complaint; and a series of emails and 
documents provided by both the complainant and the Board. Additionally, we reviewed the 
notice and the minutes for the Board's January 10, 2011 meeting. Finally, we spoke with Town 
Administrator Robert Reed by phone on May 20, 2011 and you by phone on May 23, 2011. 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS  
The notice for the Board of Selectmen's January 10, 2011 meeting listed topics including 
"Recommendation for appointment – Highway Mechanic, Personnel Board" and "Town 
Administrator's Report." Michael Shivick, the complainant and chair of the Leicester Personnel 
Board, anticipated attending the January 10, 2011 Board of Selectmen meeting because the 
Board would be considering an appointment to the Personnel Board. On January 10, 2011, 
sometime prior to the Board of Selectmen's meeting, Mr. Shivick received a call from the 
secretary of the Board of Selectmen stating that there would be no action taken on the Personnel 
Board appointment at the meeting, and thus his presence at the meeting would not be required. 
After several calls between Mr. Shivick and the Town offices confirming the evening's agenda, 
Mr. Shivick sent an email to the Board's secretary stating that he was ready, willing, and able to 
attend the evening's meeting should the Board to decide to consider the Personnel Board 
appointment. In an email to this office dated April 4, 2011, Robert Reed, the Leicester Town 
Administrator, wrote that it was his "sense that the Selectmen were not prepared to act on the 
appointment of Mr. Dennison [to the Personnel Board] that evening and simply had Mr. Shivick 
and Mr. Dennison called and asked not to come to the meeting to save them time and possible 
embarrassment." In speaking with this office, Mr. Reed acknowledged that he had not spoken 
directly with the Board chair who had sent the agenda, only that he had spoken with several other 
Board members. 
At the January 10, 2011 meeting, during the Town Administrator's report, Selectman 
Richard Antanavica asked for an update on combining the clerk jobs in the Board of Health and 
Conservation Commission offices. Town Administrator Reed reported that an agreement had 
been made and that the parties were ready to act on a trial basis. Selectman Antanavica and 
Selectwoman Sandra Wilson spoke in favor of the proposal to combine the jobs. Selectwoman 
Wilson then moved to "combine the two administrative positions, the ConCom clerk and BOH 
clerk, into on one position." The motion passed unanimously. 
The Board also considered an appointment to the Personnel Board at the January 10, 
2011 meeting. During discussion of the appointment, you read aloud a recommendation from 
the Personnel Board to appoint applicant Matthew Dennison. The Board then engaged in a 
discussion regarding whether to make the appointment in light of recent Board discussions to 
disband the Personnel Board in favor of a personnel director. The Board rejected a motion to 
table the appointment, and then approved a motion to appoint Mr. Dennison to the Personnel 
Board. There is no mention in the minutes as to the reason for the absence of the chair of 
Personnel Board—the complainant—or Mr. Dennison, the applicant. 
DISCUSSION 
The complaint against the Board of Selectmen raises two allegations. The complaint alleges, 
that the "'trial-period consolidation' item was not posted on the Selectmen's agendas and yet was 
extensively deliberated on at the meeting of 1/20/11". Additionally, the complaint alleges that the 
"Town Administrator, by his apparent authority as Chief Executive Administrator of the Town of 
Leicester, under the authority of the Leicester Board of Selectmen...did commit an affirmative 
2 
===PAGE 3===
misrepresentative of fact by having the Board of Selectmen's primary secretary call the Personnel 
Board Chairman, in order to deter the Board from offering any opinion, suggestion, recommendation, 
or explanation regarding a personnel action under the Board's concurrent jurisdiction." We find that 
neither allegation constitutes an Open Meeting Law violation. 
1. The Board's Vote on Combining Two Municipal Positions Did Not Violate the Open 
Meeting Law  
The Open Meeting Law provides that "[e]xcept in an emergency, in addition to any 
notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays." G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). The Law further requires that, Iniotice shall be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and shall contain the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." Id. 
The notice for the Board of Selectmen's January 10, 2011 meeting listed a topic as 
"Town Admhiistrator's Report." At the meeting, Selectman Antanavica requested an update on 
combining the clerk jobs in the Board of Health and Conservation Commission offices. Town 
Administrator Robert Reed reported that an agreement had been made and that the parties were 
ready to act on a trial basis. After some discussion, the Board voted unanimously to "combine 
the two administrative positions, the ConCom clerk and the BOH clerk, into one position." 
The meeting notice only included "Town Administrator's Report" and did not include the 
specific topic of combining the two municipal administrative positions. Town Administrator 
Reed wrote on behalf of the Board in its February 1, 2011 response to the complaint that the 
"chair was not aware that this item would be brought up during the Selectmen's meeting." The 
Open Meeting Law requires the chair of the public body to list in the meeting notice all topics 
the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The Law 
does not require the chair to guess as to which topics members of the Board may discuss during a 
meeting. Here, the topic arose during the Town Administrator's report, and was raised by a 
member of the Board other than the chair. While the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by addressing a topic unanticipated by the chair, we remind the Board that the Attorney 
General strongly encourages public bodies not to consider topics that were not listed in the 
meeting notice, but rather to postpone action on such items until the topic is posted in a meeting 
notice, unless the circumstances demand immediate action by the public body. We commend 
the Board's statement that , "[i]n the future[d the Town Administrator's Report will be listed 
under New Business and any items which the Town Administrator expects might lead to 
deliberation and/or a vote by the Selectmen will be listed separately on the agenda." We 
encourage the Board to follow this protocol. 
The complaint additionally alleges that actions taken by the Town Adininistrator or 
Board of Selectmen to combine the municipal positions may have violated Town bylaws, 
specifically the personnel bylaws. The Attorney General's Division of Open Government only 
has jurisdiction to enforce and interpret the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
Therefore any potential violations of the Town bylaws must be resolved at the municipal level or 
by other authorities. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
2. The Board's Vote to Make an Appointment to the Personnel Board Did Not Violate the 
Open Meeting Law  
The complaint's second allegation accuses the Town Administrator of "an.affirmative 
misrepresentation of fact by having the Board of Selectmen's primary secretary call the Personnel 
Board Chairman, in order to deter the Board from offering any opinion, suggestion, recommendation, 
or explanation regarding a personnel action under the Board's concurrent jurisdiction." This office 
makes no finding as to this accusation, as it does not allege a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
The meeting notice for the Board's January 10, 2011 meeting listed the topic of "Recommendation 
for appointment — Highway Mechanic, Personnel Board." Because the notice listed as a topic an 
appointment to the Personnel Board, it was proper for the Board to consider the appointment at 
its meeting, although the notice should have listed the specific individual or individuals under 
consideration by the Board. The Town Admithstrator stated that he did not speak with you as the 
Board chair and person responsible for setting the agenda prior to contacting Mr. Shivick. You 
confirmed this in our conversation on May 23, 2011. Therefore it appears that he was not acting 
on behalf of the Chair. That the Town Administrator may or may not have misled the 
complainant to prevent him from attending an open meeting of the Board of Selectmen is a 
matter for resolution at the municipal level, and not appropriate for this Office to resolve. The 
Board, however, acted appropriately in posting a meeting notice and listing the topic for 
consideration. 
We caution, however, that Board members who believe that topics listed in a meeting 
notice will no longer be discussed at the meeting should communicate their expectations to the 
Chair. The Chair can then enable any appropriate official action to be taken prior to the meeting, 
rather than Board members directly or indirectly communicating their views to affected parties 
or members of the public who may become confused or misled about whether to rely on the 
published notice of anticipated topics prepared by the Chair. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board of Selectmen did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We encourage 
the Board to work with the Town Administrator and other municipal officials to include anticipated 
topics for discussion or vote in the Board's meeting notices. We also encourage the Board to 
postpone voting on any items considered at a meeting that were not included in the meeting notice. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this 
determination, or believe any of the facts presented to be inaccurate, please do not hesitate to 
contact me at the number below. 
nathan Sclarsic 
/Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
cc: Michael Shivick 
Robert Reed, Town Administrator 
5 