===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 8, 2014 
OML 2014-94 
Jeffrey T. Shaw 
Vice Chairman, Uxbridge Board of Selectmen 
21 South Main Street, Room 102 
Uxbridge, MA 01569 
Re: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Shaw: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Gerald Baker, Jr. on June 16, alleging that the 
Uxbridge Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.' The complaint alleges that that Board failed to conduct a roll call vote prior to entering 
executive session during its May 5 meeting. Additionally, the complaint alleges that the Board 
falsified the minutes from its May 5 meeting to inaccurately record that it took a roll call vote 
before entering executive session. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 22 
and the Board responded by letter dated June 6. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to take a roll call vote before entering executive session during its May 5 meeting and by 
inaccurately recording the vote in its meeting minutes. In reaching a determination, we reviewed 
the May 22 complaint filed with the Board and the Board's June 6 response. Additionally, we 
reviewed the minutes from the Board's May 5 meeting and a video recording of the open session 
portion of that meeting. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board held a meeting on May 5. During the meeting, 
the Chair announced that the Board would enter executive session and would not reconvene in 
open session afterwards. The Chair entertained a motion to enter executive session under G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(2), "to conduct strategy session in preparation for negotiations with nonunion 
personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion 
personnel." The motion to go into executive session was made and seconded, and passed by 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
unanimous voice vote. No roil call vote was taken. The minutes of the Board's May 5 meeting 
state, "the motion carried unanimously on a roll call vote (Rice - aye, Modica - aye, 
Baghdasarian - aye, Anderson - aye)." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law permits a public body to enter into executive session provided 
that it has first convened in open session, that a majority of the members of the body have voted 
to go into executive session, and that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and 
entered into the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). A roll call vote is, "the act or an instance of 
calling off a list of names." Webster's Third New International Dictionary of the English 
Language, 683 (unabridged ed. 1961). These requirements are intended to protect the public's 
right to know when a body is discussing matters behind closed doors and the reasons its 
members believe a private discussion is warranted. See OML 2012-10.2 
The video recording of the Board's May 5 meeting shows that the Board did not take a 
roll call vote prior to entering into executive session and instead conducted a unanimous voice 
vote. Therefore, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to follow the 
required procedures for entering into executive session on May 5. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(2). 
Additionally, the Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain 
accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and 
place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The minutes from the 
Board's May 5 meeting record that the Board took a roll call vote to enter into executive session. 
Specifically, the minutes note that, "the motion carried unanimously on a roll call vote (Rice -
aye, Modica - aye, Baghdasarian - aye, Anderson - aye)." We find that the minutes are 
inaccurate because the Board took a unanimous voice vote and not a roll call vote. 
The complainant requests that the Board redo the executive session it held during its May 
5 meeting. As the vote to enter executive session was taken in open session and was unanimous, 
we find it more appropriate to remind the Board of the law's requirements and correct the record 
of what actually occurred. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to conduct a roll call vote before it entered executive session during its May 5 meeting 
and by failing to create accurate minutes. We order the Board's immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law and order the Board, within thirty (30) days of receiving 
this determination, to amend the minutes of its May 5 meeting to show that it took a unanimous 
voice vote to enter into executive session. 
2 Open Meeting Law Determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Gerald Baker, Jr. 
David Generux, Uxbridge Town Manager 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Certification of Compliance with Order 
I, , hereby certify that I have read the Attorney General's determination 
(print name) 
number OML 2014-94 and, pursuant to the order therein, the Uxbridge Board of Selectmen has 
amended the minutes of its May 5 meeting to include the level of detail required by the Open 
Meeting Law. 
Board Chair Signature Date 
4 