===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
vvww.mass.gov/ago 
May 24, 2017 
OML 2017 - 87 
John C. Englander, Esq. 
General Counsel 
Fiscal & Management Control Board 
Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority 
Ten Park Plaza, Suite 3910 
Boston, MA 02116 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Englander: 
This office received a complaint from Nicole Dungca of the Boston Globe on 
February 17, 2017 alleging that the Fiscal and Management Control Board (the "Board") 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally 
filed with the Board on December 20 and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter 
dated January 27, 2017, following an extension of time granted by our office. The 
complaint alleges that the Board entered into executive session for an improper purpose 
on December 5 and that the Board failed to identify the litigation matter it intended to 
discuss prior to entering executive session. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed the notice of and open and executive session minutes from the 
Board's December 5 meeting, as well as the notice of and open session minutes from the 
Board's December 12 meeting. Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on April 4, 
2017.2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. In October 2014, the Massachusetts Bay 
Transportation Authority ("MBTA") contracted with CRRC MA Corporation ("CRRC") 
' Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
to purchase 284 new Red and Orange line rail cars. In January 2015, Hyundai Rotem 
filed a complaint in United States District Court against the MBTA claiming that the 
procurement process was deeply and fundamentally flawed, that the MBTA failed to 
adhere to the terms of the bid documents, and made arbitrary and capricious decisions in 
violation of the Bidding Law. The lawsuit was dismissed in March 2015 for lack of 
subject matter jurisdiction based on sovereign immunity; the court further held that it 
would abstain from exercising federal jurisdiction where the complaints were based 
solely on state law. Hyundai Rotem then filed a similar complaint in Suffolk Superior 
Court in March 2015 which was later dismissed by stipulation in July 2015. 
The notice for the Board's December 5 meeting listed two executive session 
topics: "Approval of executive meeting minutes of November 14, November 21 and 
November 28, 2016;" and "Discussion of strategy related to non-union personnel, 
collective bargaining, real estate and litigation." 
During the December 5 meeting, the Board unanimously voted by roll call "to 
enter into Executive Session for discussion of strategy related to non-union personnel, 
collective bargaining, real estate and litigation."3 The minutes of the executive session 
are sparse and do not include an account of the actual discussions by the Board during the 
executive discussion. Even so, because the Board has not publicly released the minutes 
of this executive session, we do not recount their content in detail here. However, 
according to Attorney Englander, the Board discussed the litigation consequences of fleet 
vehicle procurement for the Red line on a sole source basis. Although not relevant to this 
complaint, the Board also discussed matters pertaining to collective bargaining and real 
estate in executive session. 
In a December 12 open meeting, the Board discussed the purchase of additional 
red line cars from CRRC and why a sole source contract with CRRC was warranted after 
hearing from General Counsel Englander, Chief Operating Officer Jeff Gonneville, and 
Chief Procurement Officer Gerald Polcari. The Board then authorized the "Acting 
General Manager & Chief Administrator to execute a formal contract amendment to 
MBTA RFP No. CAP 27-10 with CRRC MA Corporation" for the procurement of 120 
rail cars with an option to acquire an additional 14 rail cars, along with spare parts and an 
extension of technical support from two to five years. No lawsuit has yet been filed 
against the MBTA challenging this contract amendment. 
DISCUSSION 
The complaint challenges the propriety of the Board's December 5 executive 
session discussions. The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body 
be conducted in an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). 
Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes, 
provided that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for 
"3 . . , . When convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2 or Purpose 3, a public body must identify the 
non-union personnel or collective bargaining unit with whom it will be negotiating, if doing so will not 
compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy. See OML 2013-151; OML 2016-43; OML 2017-53. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
the executive session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising 
the purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); 
see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 
(2009) ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is 
necessary ... because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] 
would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason 
for doing so was proper or improper"). 
One permissible reason to convene in executive session is "to discuss strategy 
with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair 
so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). This purpose offers the narrow 
opportunity to discuss strategy with respect to litigation that is pending or clearly and 
imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely; the mere possibility of litigation 
is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3. See Doherty v. School Committee of Boston, 386 
Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Ferryman v. School Committee of Boston. 17 Mass. App. Ct. 
346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-05.4 When convening in executive session pursuant to 
Purpose 3, a public body should identify the litigation matter to be discussed, if doing so 
will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy. See OML 2016-12; OML 2013-97. 
While we generally defer to a public body's assessment of whether the inclusion of such 
information would compromise the purpose for the executive session, a public body must 
be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for such a claim if challenged. See OML 2015-
14. 
The Board argues that its discussion in executive session under Purpose 3 was 
proper because it "constituted evaluation of litigation risks and strategy, and centered on 
the general subject matter of the applicable procurement and contracting law." Attorney 
Englander made a professional judgment that litigation over the sole source award was 
demonstrably likely based on the previous litigation against the MBTA that was filed 
shortly after the initial contract was awarded in 2014. According to Attorney Englander, 
the attorneys for Hyundai Rotem were both sophisticated and aggressive in their lawsuit 
against the MBTA. It was his belief that had the Board publicly identified the specific 
litigation it planned to discuss, such detail would have compromised the confidentiality 
of the executive discussion and alerted the potential litigants. 
Looking at all that transpired prior to December 5, it was reasonable for Attorney 
Englander to anticipate litigation in response to the Board awarding a second contract to 
CRRC for additional rail cars rather than go through a competitive procurement process, 
and to advise the Board of the potential litigation consequences of this decision. See 
OML 2012-5 (concluding that a public body's executive session discussion was proper 
where the public body's attorney advised the public body about the potential litigation 
consequence of its decision because, in the attorney's judgment, a real threat of litigation 
existed). It was also reasonable to conclude that announcing the specific topic of 
litigation prior to convening in executive session would have comprised the purpose for 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.inass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
the executive session. It would not have been appropriate for the Board to enter 
executive session under Purpose 3 as a pretext for deciding or discussing the merits of 
issuing a contract to CRRC. However, we have been assured by Attorney Englander that 
the discussion in executive session focused only on the litigation consequences and not 
the merits of awarding a contract to CRRC on a sole source basis. In fact, the Board met 
in open session on December 12 and discussed the procurement of additional Red line 
cars, as well as voted to execute a formal contract with CRRC for the procurement of 120 
rail cars. 
While not raised in the complaint, we note that the Board's December 5 executive 
session minutes are not sufficiently detailed. The Open Meeting Law requires that a 
public body "create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive 
sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary 
of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record 
of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The minutes should contain enough detail and 
accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the 
minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2016-105. Based 
on our in camera review of the minutes of the Board's December 5 executive session, we 
note that the minutes are inadequate to meet the standard required by the Open Meeting 
Law because they do not offer a sufficiently detailed summary of the Board's ninety 
minute discussions. We recommend that the Board amend its December 5 executive 
session meeting minutes in accordance with the requirements of G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
The Board may continue to withhold the minutes from public disclosure if such 
disclosure would defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(f). Once publication of the minutes would no longer defeat the purpose for the 
executive session, the Board must publicly release the minutes. Id. However, the Board 
may continue to withhold the minutes, in whole or in part, under any applicable 
exemptions to the Public Records Law or the attorney/client privilege. Id, 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by meeting in 
executive session on December 5 to discuss litigation strategy. We now consider the 
complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not 
address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please 
feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this 
letter. 
CONCLUSION 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
4 
===PAGE 5===
cc: Nicole Dungca, The Boston Globe 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt 
of a final order. 
5 