===PAGE 1===
E COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 28, 2017 
OML 2017-134 
John Grande, Town Administrator 
c/o Tisbury School Committee 
40 West William Street, P.O. Box 878 
Vineyard Haven, MA 02568 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
1 HI 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Dear Mr. Grande: 
This office received a complaint from Hyung Lee, dated July 14, alleging that the Tisbury 
School Building Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on April 14, and the Town 
Administrator responded by e-mail on May 5.2 In his complaint, Mr. Lee alleges that the 
Committee failed to post notice of a meeting.3 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged in the complaint. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee's response, and the request for further review filed with our office. We also 
reviewed the minutes of Committee meetings held on April 12 and May 3. Finally, we spoke 
with the town administrator by telephone on August 11.4 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 The complainant e-mailed his complaint to the Tisbury Board of Selectmen, copying the Town Administrator, and 
did not utilize the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law complaint form. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b) (complaints 
must be filed with the public body alleged to have violated the law); 940 CMR 29.05(1) (complainants must use the 
form approved by the Attorney General). Because the Town Administrator forwarded the e-mail to the Committee 
on the day it was received and the Committee treated it as a properly-filed Open Meeting Law complaint, we review 
its merits now. 
3 The complaint contains allegations that, even if true, would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. BOA, §§ 18-25. Accordingly, we do not review them. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing 
Authority Board of Commissioners). Similarly, the request for further review contains allegations that were not part 
of the original complaint. We do not review these allegations, either. See OML 2017-65. Fn. 1. Finally, to the 
extent that the request for further review requests that the Attorney General conduct a broad audit of all Committee 
meetings, we note that our office does not conduct such audits. See OML 2013-180. 
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Town of Tisbury has not adopted its municipal website 
for notice posting purposes, see 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b), and meeting notices are therefore 
considered posted when they appear on a bulletin board located in Tisbury Town Hall. The 
complaint concerns a Committee meeting held on April 12. Due to an inadvertent omission, 
while notice of the Committee's April 12 meeting appeared on the municipal website and was 
posted at the Tisbury School, notice was not posted on the bulletin board at Tisbury Town Hall. 
The Committee convened the April 12 meeting as planned and discussed several topics, 
including the costs of various building projects. The Committee also heard reports from town 
department heads. The meeting lasted for approximately one hour and fifteen minutes. 
Ultimately, the Committee voted to approve two expenditures—one for a site study, and one for 
a traffic study. 
The present complaint was filed on April 14. The Committee subsequently convened a 
properly-noticed meeting on May 3. At the beginning of the May 3 meeting, the Committee took 
a vote to "incorporate all April 12, 2017 notes into the official record." The Committee then 
repeated the votes that were taken during the April 12 meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that all meetings of public bodies be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public. G.L. c. 3 OA, §§ 20(a)-(b). The law defines 
a "meeting" as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's 
jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to post notice of its April 12 meeting. Indeed, the Committee's response concedes that notice 
was not properly posted. Accordingly, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged in the complaint. In its response, the Committee argues that it remedied the 
violation at its May 3 meeting during which the Committee re-conducted the votes taken during 
the April 12 meeting and adopted the minutes and all documents used during that earlier meeting 
in the record. While we commend the Committee for the remedial actions taken during the May 
3 meeting, we nonetheless find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law with respect 
to the April 12 meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
Because the Committee took certain remedial action in response to the violation during the May 
3 meeting, we order no additional relief. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Tisbury School Building Committee 
Hyung Lee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 