===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
June 13, 2011 
OML2011 -24 
Mr. Paul Joseph, Chairman 
Dudley Board of Selectmen 
71 West Main Street 
Dudley, MA 01571 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Joseph: 
On November 4, 2010, this office received a complaint filed by Mr. Gerard Russell 
("Complainant") alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by the 
Dudley Board of Selectmen ("Board"). The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law on August 9, 2010 "when it entered into an executive session stating it was 'for the 
purpose of a preliminary employee evaluation.' The complaint requests that our office issue a 
determination that the "Dudley Board violated the Open Meeting Law by entering into an 
executive session for a purpose not allowed under the law," and asks that we "instruct the Board 
that town administrator evaluations be conducted in the view of the public eye." 
The original complaint was filed with the Board on August 16, 2010. The Board's 
response was received by our office on September 9, 2010. On October 29, 2010, our office 
notified the Complainant of the requirement that a copy of the original complaint and request for 
further review be filed with our office by November 15, 2010 in order for our office to consider 
the complaint to be timely. The Complainant submitted the original complaint and request for 
further review by our office on November 4, 2010. 
Our office reviewed the initial complaint; the Board's response; the Complainant's 
===PAGE 2===
request for further review; the meeting notice for the August 9, 2010 Board meeting; the open 
and executive session minutes from the Board's meetings on August 9, 2010 and August 23, 
2010; and video recordings of the August 9, 2010 and August 23, 2010 meetings of the Board. 
Based upon our review of the above listed information, we find that the Dudley Board of 
Selectmen violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a) by convening in executive 
session on August 9, 2010 fOr an inappropriate purpose, specifically to conduct an evaluation of 
the professional competence of the Town Administrator. 
In the time since the complaint was filed with the Board, the Board has sought to cure the 
violation by releasing the minutes of the August 9, 2010 executive session and conducting the 
evaluation of the Town Administrator in open session during a meeting of the Board. We 
commend the Board for taking these actions in a prompt manner. We now order that each 
member of the Board receive and review a copy of this determination; the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§18-25; and the Attorney General's Guide to the Open Meeting Law. We further 
order that all future discussions about professional competence conducted by the Town be 
conducted in properly noticed open session meetings of the Board. 
FACTS 
On August 9, 2010, the Board convened in a duly posted meeting. Following discussion 
about other topics and a report from the Town Administrator, the Board began discussion about 
the evaluation of the Town Administrator, The posted meeting notice did not list evaluation of 
the Town Administrator as a topic for discussion at the meeting. During the meeting, you, in 
your capacity as Chair, indicated that the Town Administrator had completed a self-evaluation. 
Each member of the Board had also completed an evaluation of the Town Administrator that 
required numerical ratings in several categories. You then stated that the Board would enter 
executive session to share results and "come up with an overall vote and rating." You indicated 
that the numerical results would be shared during a meeting in open session of the Board on 
August 23, 2010. You also noted that the process undertaken by the Board was intended to 
function "so nothing done in the evaluation process is hidden." The Board was told to be 
prepared to discuss the evaluations during the meeting on August 23, 2010. See Video of the 
Meeting of the Board, August 9, 2010. 
The video and minutes of the meeting reflect that at 7:25 p.m., a motion was made for the 
Board to enter executive session "under MGL Chapter 39, § 23B for the purpose of preliminary 
employee evaluation and not to reconvene into open session." Video; Minutes of the Meeting of 
the Board, August 9, 2010. A roll call vote was taken. 
The executive session minutes from August 9, 2010 provide a very brief, summary of 
what occurred: 
All five members of the Board of Selectmen evaluated [the town 
administrator] numerically to form. Thc only thing they did was 
share their scores and come up with a single average and overall rating. 
===PAGE 3===
These scores will be shared with Peter Jankowski. Paul Joseph completed 
the mathematical analysis based on hard figures. A discussion on how they 
arrived at the scores will take place. 
The Board adjourned at 8:51 p.m. 
On August 16, 2010 the complaint was filed with the Dudley Town Clerk. On August 23, 
2010, the Dudley Town Clerk forwarded the complaint to the Board, though there is some 
indication that the Board was on notice that a complaint either had been or was going to be filed, 
prior to August 23rd. Sec Complaint ("When a reporter informed the chairman that the executive 
session may be in violation of the Open Meeting Law and asked if he checked with legal 
counsel, his response was, '[W]eve done it this way for years."). 
On the evening of August 23rd, the Board convened in a duly posted meeting in open 
session. The Board voted unanimously to "accept the minutes of August 9, 2010 as printed and 
the Executive Session minutes of August 9, 2010 to accept and release." See Minutes of August 
23, 2010. The Town Administrator released the minutes that night, following the meeting. See 
Board's Response. The Board then deliberated on several matters of Town business for 
approximately an hour and fifteen minutes before turning to the topic of the Town 
Administrator's performance review. 
The video of the August 23rd  meeting reviewed by this office shows that Selectman 
Sullivan opened the discussion by stating that the Board had entered executive session on August 
9, 2010 to the discuss the "net result" of the individual evaluations and to meet with the Town 
Administrator to discuss the "parameters of the evaluation." Selectman Sullivan then explained 
the process the Board had undertaken when evaluating the Town Administrator. Namely, he 
explained that the Board took the Personnel Board form, which includes six categories of general 
skills to consider as part of the evaluation, and each member of the Board individually assigned a 
numerical value to each category. Then, the remaining blocks of the Personnel Board form were 
filled in using attributes from the Town Administrator job description. Selectman Sullivan stated 
that the process was established to ensure that the public understood how the Town 
Administrator was being evaluated. Selectman Sullivan further stated that following the Board's 
numerical evaluation, it was intended that the public would have an opportunity to ask questions. 
From that point, the discussion focused on how the Board should proceed with regard to 
the evaluation process. It was acknowledged that you, the Board Chair, were not present. Some 
members expressed apprehension about proceeding with the Town Administrator evaluation in 
your absence, though it was made clear that you had indicated to Selectmen Sullivan that you 
assented to the Board proceeding without you. A motion to table the evaluation until the 
September 13th  meeting of the Board was made and failed. The Board then deliberated on 
conducting the evaluation without the full Board. A motion was made to go over the numerical 
tabulations from the August 9th  meeting, but refrain from individual comments about 
performance. The Board then debated the process for tabulating the results. It was determined 
that separating the numerical results from the performance comments would be too difficult and, 
additionally, that the Board was awaiting further materials from the Town Administrator. A 
===PAGE 4===
motion was made to table the Town Administrator evaluation until the Board meeting scheduled 
for September 13, 2010. The Board voted unanimously to table the evaluation. 
On September 13, 2010, the Board conducted a public evaluation of the Town 
Administrator during its meeting. You, in your capacity as Chair, stated that the September 136  
meeting was the first time that the Town Administrator was being evaluated and seeing the 
numerical tabulation of the Board evaluating his performance. The Board provided a numerical 
evaluation of categories the Board had predetermined and then provided an evaluation of areas of 
competence that had been selected by the Town Administrator. The Board shared its scores and 
comments publicly. 
DISCUSSION 
Public bodies may enter executive session for one or more purposes listed in the Open 
Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). The public body is required to follow the procedure for 
entering executive session set forth in the law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). 
Here, the Board sought to enter executive session "under MGL Chapter 39, § 23B for the 
purpose of preliminary employee evaluation." See Minutes of the Board, August 9, 2010. This 
short statement raises two issues. 
To begin with, the statutory citation to the Open Meeting Law is incorrect. Amendments 
to the Open Meeting Law adopted through Chapter 28 of the Acts of 2009 took effect and were 
codified in G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25 on July 1, 2010. Though the purpose of the Open Meeting 
Law and several of its provisions remain the same, there are substantive changes that 
differentiate the provisions of the new Open Meeting Law from those of the repealed version 
contained in G.L. c. 39, § 23B. 
Our more serious concern is the Board's citation of "preliminary employee evaluation" as 
the purpose for entering executive session. This is not now a proper purpose for executive 
session under the Open Meeting Law, nor was it a proper purpose under the repealed version of 
the Open Meeting Law. Accordingly, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). The Board, and all public bodies, should be mindful that not only is 
"employee evaluation" not an authorized purpose for executive session under the Open Meeting 
Law, but also that the law specifically requires that such evaluations be conducted in open 
session. For example, G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(I) states that a public body may enter executive 
session "fflo discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than 
the professional competence, of an individual..." (emphasis added). In addition, the Open 
Meeting Law includes a provision that "materials used in a performance evaluation of an 
individual bearing on his professional competence," which were created by members of a public 
body for the purpose of evaluating the person's professional competence, are not considered 
exempt under the Public Records Law, G.L. c. 4, § 7(cl. 26). See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e)(1). 
Simply stated, evaluations of the professional competence of public officials that are conducted 
by public bodies must be done publicly and in accordance with the requirements of the Open 
Meeting Law. Furthermore, all written evaluations completed by members of a public body, 
===PAGE 5===
whether individual or comprehensive in nature, are public records and may be available to the 
public upon request following the completion of the evaluation process. 
Here, once notified of its error through the complaint that is the basis for this 
determination, the Board took steps to cure its violation. During the August 23, 2010 meeting, 
the Board discussed the evaluation process and ultimately voted to table the evaluation until the 
September 13th  meeting. The Board also voted to release the August 9th  executive session 
minutes immediately. On September 13, 2010, the Board conducted a public evaluation of the 
Town Administrator, thereby completing its efforts the cure the violation that occurred on 
August 9, 2010 and providing the public with access to the evaluation process as required by the 
Open Meeting Law.  
ORDER 
We find that the Dudley Board of Selectmen violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a) by convening in executive session on August 9, 2010 for an inappropriate purpose, 
specifically, to conduct an evaluation of the professional competence of the Town Administrator. 
We are satisfied, however, that the Board sought to cure the violation in a timely fashion by 
releasing the minutes of the executive session on August 9, 2010 and conducting the evaluation 
of the Town Administrator during an open session of the Board convened on September 13, 
2010. However, we remain concerned that there is not a complete understanding of the 
authorized purposes for which a public body may enter executive session. Accordingly, we 
order that each member of the Board receive and review a copy of this determination; the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. e. 30A, §§ 18-25; and the Attorney General's Guide to the Open Meeting 
Law. We further order that all future discussions about professional competence conducted by 
the Town be conducted in properly noticed open session meetings of the Board, 
With the issuance of this determination we now consider this matter closed. 
Britte McBride 
Assistant Attorney General 
cc: 	 Mr. Gerard Russell 