===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 7, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 102 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Chair Nathaniel Yohalem, 
Town of New Marlborough 
Board of Selectman  
807 Mill River Southfield Road  
Mill River, MA 01244  
nmbos@newmarlboroughma.gov  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Yohalem: 
This office received a complaint from Tom Stalker on June 29, 2020, alleging that the 
New Marlborough Cable Advisory Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on April 21, 
and the Board of Selectman responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated April 29.1 In 
his complaint, Mr. Stalker alleges that the Committee changed the phone numbers necessary to 
access a remote meeting and did not provide sufficient notice of the change to the public.2  
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
and find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting Law requires 
that a public body post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not including 
Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must be printed in a 
legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as 
well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. Id. For meetings 
of local public bodies, “notice shall be filed with the municipal clerk and posted in a manner 
conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on the municipal building in which the 
clerk’s office is located.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c). The Open Meeting Law requires that the 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 We decline to review any additional allegations contained in the request for further review that were not included 
in the original complaints filed with the public body. Our office does not conduct broad audits of public bodies and 
will address only specific allegations made in an Open Meeting Law complaint. See OML 2020-2; OML 
Declination 4-22-15 (Natick Economic Development Committee). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
municipal clerk post notice of meetings in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all 
hours in or on the municipal building in which the clerk’s office is located. Id.  
Meetings of a public body must be open to members of the public, unless an executive 
session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21. Under Governor Baker’s March 12 Executive 
Order suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting Law, public bodies are permitted to 
meet entirely remotely, provided that the public body provides adequate, alternative means of 
public access to the deliberations of the public body.3 “Adequate, alternative means” may 
include, without limitation, providing public access through telephone, internet, or satellite 
enabled audio or video conferencing or any other technology that enables the public to clearly 
follow the proceedings of the public body in real time.  
For remote meetings, public bodies must continue to post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance of the meeting, not including weekends or state holidays, using the official 
notice posting method (physical notice or website), even if the clerk’s office is closed. If access 
to the meeting will be provided through “adequate, alternative means,” the meeting notice must 
include clear instructions for accessing the meeting remotely. A public body may require 
members of the public to call to obtain access information for the meeting, rather than including 
such information on the meeting notice. In such situations, the meeting notice must include clear 
contact information, and members of the public must be able to obtain the meeting access 
information up to and throughout the duration of the meeting; members of the public cannot be 
required to register in advance. 
When a public body learns in advance that a meeting is expected to draw a particularly 
large crowd, the body should make reasonable efforts to accommodate anticipated crowds. See 
OML 2016-111; OML 2015-92.4 Here, on March 20 at 9:51 AM, the Committee posted a 
meeting notice for a remote meeting to take place on March 24 at 12 PM. After the meeting 
notice was posted, the Committee’s Chair decided that the posted conference line should be 
changed because it did not have sufficient capacity for the number of people that he anticipated 
would attend the meeting. This change complied with the requirement that, for a meeting to be 
considered open to the public, a public body must make reasonable efforts to accommodate the 
anticipated crowd.  
When a public body must change its meeting location on short notice, it must inform the 
public of the new location. We have previously found that a public body did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law when changing its meeting location where the public body posted a new meeting 
notice on the morning of the meeting and placed a sign at the original meeting location to 
redirect members of the public to a new location. See OML 2017-152. Here, on March 23, the 
Chair sent a new meeting notice to the Municipal Clerk containing access information for a new 
conference line, which would allow the anticipated number of participants to dial into the 
meeting. However, the Clerk did not post the new notice. In addition, members of the public who 
called the original phone number were not redirected to the new conference line. Therefore, 
because the Committee provided public access to its meeting via a phone line that was different 
 
3 Governor Baker’s Executive Order may be found at https://www.mass.gov/doc/order-suspending-certain-
provision-of-open-meeting-law/download 
4 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
from the one published on the meeting notice, and members of the public who may have called 
the published phone number were not redirected to the line that was used, we find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law.  
However, we do not find that the Committee intended to conceal the new conference line 
from the public. The Chair sent the Clerk an amended meeting notice with the new conference 
line information the day prior to the meeting, but the Clerk did not post the amended notice in 
time. The Chair also sought to inform the public of the new conference line through other means, 
including posting on Maggie’s List, a popular town messaging board. Finally, if a member of the 
public emailed a member of the Committee during the meeting to ask how to access the meeting, 
the Committee member promptly replied. Therefore, we find that the Committee acted in good 
faith by attempting to publicize the new conference line with increased capacity, although an 
amended meeting notice was not posted. We order no further remedial action, although we order 
the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Law’s requirements and we caution 
the Committee that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this  determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Chase 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Tom Stalker (via e-mail:  ) 
 New Marlborough Cable Advisory C ommittee c/o Chair Steven Klein (v ia e-mail: 
  ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
