===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL:(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 22, 2015 
OML 2015 - 54 
Benjamin M. Coyle, Esq. 
Bacon Wilson, P.C. 
33 State Street 
Springfield, MA 01103 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Coyle: 
This office received two complaints from Ms. Tracy Cesan, both dated December 
26,' alleging that the Southwick Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Board 
on October 27 and we received your responses on behalf of the Board in two separate 
letters dated November 17. In her complaints, Ms. Cesan alleges that: (1) on October 6, 
the Board convened an executive session without affording her certain rights guaranteed by 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1); (2) the Board failed to list that same executive session as a topic in 
the notice for its October 6 meeting; and (3) the Board failed to list a related topic in the 
notice for its October 20 meeting. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this 
matter. Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to follow certain procedural requirements for convening in executive session, 
including the failure to afford the individual certain rights under Purpose 1, on October 6 
and by failing to list anticipated discussion topics in the notices for its October 6 and 
October 20 meetings. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the two original 
complaints; the Board's responses to those complaints; and the two complaints filed with 
our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notices, recordings, and open 
session minutes from the Board's October 6 and October 20 meetings, and the executive 
session minutes from the Board's October 6 meeting. Finally, we spoke with Chair 
Russell Fox on April 1. 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board consists of three members, thus two 
members constitute a quorum. The complainant, Tracy Cesan, is a member of the Board. 
The Board held a meeting on October 6 to discuss, in part, several matters in executive 
session. The meeting notice, posted on October 2, listed among the topics for discussion 
the following: "Executive Session RE; M.G.L. Chap. 30A, S21 (2) (3) & (7) Ch. 214, 
Section IB: Lease of Real Property- Transfer Station Cell Tower; Collective Bargaining 
for IBPO, UPSEU & IAFF Units; Union and Non-Union personnel issues." Selectman 
Joseph Deedy used this same description of the topics in his motion to convene in 
executive session during the meeting. Once in executive session. Chair Fox distributed to 
the Board two separate reports prepared by Town Counsel that summarized his 
investigation of complaints submitted to the Board. One complaint was filed by Ms. Cesan 
against a Town employee and the other complaint was filed by the same Town employee 
against Ms. Cesan. Although Town Counsel's reports were prepared in March and 
September, respectively. Chair Fox waited until the October 6 meeting to distribute them 
because it was the Town employee at issue's first meeting back to work following an 
extended leave of absence. Chair Fox chose to distribute the reports during a meeting, 
rather than individually outside of a meeting, out of concern that the reports would elicit a 
discussion among a quorum of the Board outside of a meeting. 
Chair Fox stated that he intended to distribute the reports solely for discussion at a 
future meeting and therefore did not list them as topics on the meeting notice. According 
to the executive session minutes, however, he permitted a substantive discussion about 
each report after its distribution. The Board did not provide either Ms. Cesan or the Town 
employee with 48 hours' notice of this discussion pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) 
("Purpose 1"), although they were both present for a portion of the discussion. At one 
point during the closed door session, the Board asked the Town employee to leave the 
executive session to allow the Board to discuss his complaint against Ms. Cesan. Ms. 
Cesan then decided to leave the meeting because she felt that she was not afforded proper 
notice of this discussion. 
After Ms. Cesan left, the two remaining Board members continued to discuss the 
Board's response to the complaints before deciding that the Town employee would receive 
a "written determination" from the Board regarding his complaint. The Board also 
discussed drafting a written response to resolve Ms. Cesan's complaint. Chair Fox 
subsequently prepared this "written determination" in the form of a written statement that 
he read aloud during the Board's next meeting, on October 20. Neither the prepared 
statement nor the complaint was listed as a topic for discussion on the notice. Rather, the 
discussion occurred during the section of the meeting described in the minutes as "Old 
Business." The minutes of the October 20 meeting read, "Mr. Fox stated that the Board of 
Selectmen received a complaint against Selectmen Cesan. See Attachment 'C - 1 
Page(s)." Attachment C was a one-page statement outlining the Board's recommendation 
2 
===PAGE 3===
for resolving the complaint- an apology from the Board- as decided upon during the 
October 6 executive session discussion. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School 
Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that 
public bodies post notice of each meeting and include in that notice a "listings of topics 
that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 3OA, 
§ 20(b). Public bodies must list topics for discussion with "sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 
29.03(1 )(b). Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in 
an announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising 
the purpose for which the executive session was called. See District Attorney for N. Dist. 
v. Sch. Comm. Of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 ("[a] precise statement of the reason for 
convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting law because that is the 
only notification given to the public that the school committee would conduct business in 
private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or 
improper."); see G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b), 21(b)(3); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
Chair Fox stated that he planned to distribute Town Counsel's reports in executive 
session on October 6 for the sole purpose of discussing them at a future meeting. The 
distribution of documents to be discussed at a meeting is not considered "deliberation," as 
defined by the Open Meeting Law, however that exemption carries an important caveat: 
"provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." See G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (emphasis 
added). Had Chair Fox simply handed out the reports, therefore, there would have been no 
need for the Board to notice the reports as a topic for discussion. However, Chair Fox 
permitted substantive discussion of the reports to take place and actively participated in it. 
At one point, the Board asked the Town employee at issue to leave the meeting so they 
could discuss his complaint against Ms. Cesan, demonstrating the Board's intent to further 
discuss the matter during the meeting. Even after Ms. Cesan left the meeting, the Board 
continued its discussion, ultimately deciding how it would resolve the complaints. Despite 
Chair Fox's assertion that he did not anticipate that a discussion would ensue, based on the 
totality of the circumstances and the fact that he expected that the reports would likely 
provoke a discussion, we find that he indeed anticipated such a discussion, but decided not 
to list them as a topic for discussion, both on the meeting notice and in the announcement 
before the executive session. See OML 2015-12; OML 2013-174. Accordingly, the Board 
should not have discussed the reports during this meeting. See G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b); Id-
2 Had the Board properly listed it on the notice, however, the closed door discussion may have been 
appropriate pursuant to Purpose 1, which allows public bodies to convene in executive session to "discuss 
the... discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff 
member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). However, the Board did not comply with certain required 
procedures for holding an executive session under Purpose 1 because it failed to announce the purposes for 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Because we find that the Board's executive session discussion about the complaints 
during its October 6 meeting was improper, the Board may not continue to withhold that 
portion of the minutes under the Open Meeting Law. See G.L c. 30A, § 22(f) ("The 
minutes of any executive session . . . may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their 
entirety ... as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, 
but no longer; provided, however, that the executive session was held in compliance with 
section 21") (emphasis added)); OML 2014-42; OML 2014-17. Accordingly, we order the 
Board to release that portion of the executive session minutes, as well as any documents 
used by the Board during that executive session discussion. The Board may continue to 
withhold that portion of the minutes from the general public, in whole or in part, under any 
applicable exemptions to the Public Records Law or the attorney-client privilege. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 22(f). However, the Board shall promptly provide the subjects of the executive 
session with an unredacted version of the portion of the minutes concerning them. See 
OML 2014-140. 
Finally, we find that the Board should not have discussed the complaints during its 
October 20 meeting because that discussion also was reasonably anticipated but the topic 
was not included in the meeting notice. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). During the Board's October 
6 meeting. Chair Fox pledged to draft a written statement for presentation during the 
Board's October 20 meeting concerning the Board's response to the complaints. As Chair 
Fox has conceded, this pledge demonstrated that he anticipated that this discussion would 
occur during the October 20 meeting and therefore he should have listed it as a topic for 
discussion on the notice. G.L. c. BOA, § 20(b). Accordingly, we find that the Board again 
violated the Open Meeting Law by omitting the topic. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to follow certain procedural requirements for convening in executive 
session, including the failure to afford the individual certain rights under Purpose 1, on 
October 6 and by failing to list anticipated discussion topics in the notices for its October 6 
and October 20 meetings. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law and caution that future similar violations may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the Law. In addition, we order the Board to publicly release the portion of 
its October 6 executive session minutes related to the complaints, as well as any documents 
used by the Board during that executive session discussion, subject to any applicable 
exemptions to the Public Records Law or the attorney-client privilege. Finally, we order 
the Board to provide the subjects of the executive session (Ms. Cesan and the Town 
employee) with an unredacted version of the portion of the minutes concerning them. 
the executive session and failed to provide either individual with certain rights afforded to them under 
Purpose 1, such as providing the individual with 48 hours' written advance notice. See id-; OML 2015-16; 
OML 2014-137. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Tracy Cesan 
Southwick Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
5 