===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
OML 2014-103 
August 22, 2014 
Donnaiyn B. Lynch Kahn, City Solicitor 
Law Department 
City of Newton 
1000 Commonwealth Avenue 
Newton Centre, MA 02459 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Kahn, 
This office received a complaint from Emily Costello of the Newton TAB (the 
complainant), dated June 23, alleging that the Mayor of the City of Newton and the Newton 
Board of Alderman (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The 
complaint alleges that the Board serially deliberated during meetings with the Mayor concerning 
the City's budget. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 10, and you 
responded to the complaint by letter dated May 1. 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a). We find no violation of the Open Meeting Law in the complainant's 
allegations. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the April 10 complaint filed with the 
Board; the Board's May 1 response; and the June 23 request for further review filed with our 
office. Additionally, we spoke by telephone with the City Solicitor and with Board member 
Richard A. Lipof in July 2014. 
At issue is the Mayor's practice of meeting with members of the Board regarding his 
proposed budget for the City prior to the budget's formal presentation to the Board. These 
briefing sessions are conducted with a subquorum of the Board.3 The complainant's concern is 
that these meetings could become vehicles for serial deliberation among a quorum of the Board 
1 The Mayor is an individual public official who is not a member of a public body, thus he is not subject to the Open 
Meeting Law. We therefore decline to review the allegations against him and consider his actions only to the extent 
they relate to the complaint against the Board. See OML 2012-20. 
2 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. For the purpose of clarity, we will refer to 
you in the third person hereafter. 
3 The Board consists of twenty-four members, therefore a quorum is thirteen members. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
in violation of the Open Meeting Law. The complainant therefore asks this office to review the 
practice to ensure it is in compliance with the requirements of the Law. We decline to do so 
because this office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized 
allegations. OML 2014-82.4 While we decline to review the general practice of these briefings, 
we note that structuring briefings so as not to trigger the requirements of the Law is not in itself a 
violation of the Law. OML 2014-63. Public bodies may not employ such efforts to circumvent 
the Law's intent, however. See McRea v. Flaherty. 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637, 648-49 (2008). 
We did review the complaint's specific allegation that a March 25 briefing session is 
evidence of deliberation that violated the Open Meeting Law. On that date, the Mayor met with 
Board member Richard A. Lipof to brief Mr. Lipof on the budget. No other members of the 
Board attended the briefing, and there is no evidence that the substance of the conversation was 
subsequently communicated to a quorum of the Board's members. Because there was no 
communication between or among a quorum of the Board, we find there was no deliberation 
requiring a posted meeting. See G.L. c. 3OA, § 18. We therefore find no violation of the Law. 
We now consider this matter closed. This determination does not address any other 
complaints that may be pending before this office or the Board. Please feel free to contact this 
office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Mark M. Higgins /'/ 
Assistant Attorney GeneraH 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Newton Board of Aldermen 
Emily Costello, Newton TAB 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(e). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
ww w.mass, gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 