===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 19, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 166 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Stephen D. Curry 
City of Fitchburg Director of Public Health  
SCurry@fitchburgma.gov  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Director Curry: 
 
This office received a complaint from Jacquelyn Wehtje on February 14, 2022,
1 alleging 
that the Fitchburg Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about January 13, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated February 8. The complaint alleges that a 
member of the public was unable to access the Board’s January 13 meeting via Zoom.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination we reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaint, 
the Board’s response, and the request for further review. We also reviewed materials attached to 
the Board’s response, which include a list of Zoom registrants for the Board’s January 13 
meeting, the minutes of the January 13 meeting, and email exchanges between the Health 
Director,
2 Complainant, and Dr. Monica Gandhi. Finally, we also reviewed the notice for and 
video recording of the January 13 meeting.3  
 
FACTS 
 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held at 5:00 p.m. on January 13 at the 
“Legislative Building (next to City Hall) Council Chambers 700 Main Street Fitchburg, MA 
 
1 Unless stated otherwise, all dates are in 2022. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person throughout. 
3 A video recording of the Board’s January 13 meeting may be found at 
https://videoplayer.telvue.com/player/yycCAZPb0NN3zj2o5qio-
YFMNC43NjCG/playlists/9484/media/693945?sequenceNumber=7&autostart=false&showtabssearch=true. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
01420.” The notice also stated that anyone wishing to participate in the meeting remotely could 
request a link by emailing the Health Director.  
 
The Complainant had submitted a petition to the Board asking that the Board rescind or 
amend its mask mandate. The petition was included as a topic on the notice for the January 13 
meeting. The Complainant requested that Dr. Monica Gandhi speak with respect to the 
Complainant’s petition and Dr. Gandhi agreed to speak at the January 13 meeting. 
 
On January 11, the Health Director provided a link to the Complainant and Dr. Gandhi 
where they could register to participate in the meeting via Zoom. The Health Director noted that 
Dr. Gandhi could speak during the public forum at the beginning of the meeting or during the 
discussion of the Complainant’s petition. In response to the Complainant’s request for a specific 
time that Dr. Gandhi might speak during the January 13 meeting, the Health Direct guessed that 
5:45 p.m. would be a good time for Dr. Gandhi to plan on but reiterated that Dr. Gandhi could 
also speak at 5:00 p.m. during the public forum.  
 
The Board convened its January 13 meeting and at approximately 5:30 p.m. turned to the 
Complainant’s petition. The Complainant, who attended the meeting in person, spoke regarding 
her petition and at one point asked if Dr. Gandhi was present on Zoom. The Chair stated that he 
did not believe she was. After hearing from the Complainant, the Board voted to uphold its mask 
mandate. Immediately thereafter, the Board voted to adjourn the meeting. The exact time of 
adjournment is not clear, but it was sometime between 5:43 p.m. and 5:50 p.m. Dr. Gandhi 
registered to attend the meeting via Zoom on January 13 at 5:50 p.m. At 5:51 p.m. she sent an 
email to the Health Director and the Complainant stating that she was present and was trying to 
access the meeting but that someone needed to let her in. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
We begin by noting that it appears that the Board may not have met prior to the Health 
Director responding on its behalf. The Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s Open 
Meeting Law Regulations require that, within 14 business days after receiving a complaint, the 
chair disseminate the complaint to the public body and the public body meet to review the 
complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the complainant a 
response and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23; 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
The public body must simultaneously provide the Attorney General with a copy of the 
complaint, the response, and a description of any remedial action taken. 940 CMR 29.05(5).  
 
A public body may delegate authority to respond to a complaint to legal counsel or other 
individual, but the public body must first meet to review the complaint. OML 2020-164 (“The 
Board may review the complaint at a meeting and then authorize the Administrator to prepare 
and send the response, or the Administrator may receive the complaint and draft a response for 
the Board to review at a meeting, but the Board may not remove itself entirely from the 
process.”); OML 2021-198.
4 We remind the Board of its obligation to comply with the 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law including its obligation to review and respond to Open 
Meeting Law complaints within 14 business days. 
 
Next, we address the allegation raised in the complaint. The complaint alleges that Dr. 
Gandhi was unable to access the Board’s January 13 meeting via Zoom. Based on the undisputed 
evidence provided to our office, we find that at the time Dr. Gandhi tried to access the Board’s 
January 13 meeting the meeting had been adjourned. Therefore, we find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
  
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: John Bogdasarian, Chair, Fitchburg Board of Health (via e- mail: ) 
Jacquelyn Wehtje (via email: )  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
