===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 8, 2017 
OML 2017-93 
James M. Kreidler, Town Administrator 
Town of Townsend 
272 Main Street 
Townsend, MA 01469 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Kreidler; 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Sheldon, dated May 12, 2017, alleging 
that the Townsend Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 21, 2017, and the 
Board responded by letter dated April 11, 2017. In his complaint, Mr. Sheldon alleges that the 
Board deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint filed with the Board, the Board's 
response, and the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed a video 
recording of the Board's March 9, 2017 meeting.1 Finally, we spoke with the Townsend Town 
Administrator by telephone on June 1, 2017.2 
We find the facts as follows. The complaint concerns the Board's March 9, 2017. Prior 
to this meeting, the Townsend Police Chief had commissioned an investigative report. This 
investigative report, which was completed on February 26, 2017, made certain recommendations 
to the Board. Among these were recommendations to hire a hearing officer and to schedule a 
disciplinary hearing concerning allegations against a police officer. Following receipt of this 
report, the Town Administrator prepared draft motions with the following objectives: (i) to adopt 
the investigative report, (ii) to authorize the Town Administrator and Town Counsel to hire a 
hearing officer, and (iii) to authorize the Town Administrator and Town Counsel to schedule a 
hearing. The Town Administrator did not discuss these draft motions with the Board. The draft 
1 Available here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GPQJFblrfc. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
motions were provided to the Board in advance of the meeting, along with copies of the 
investigate report itself. The Board convened the March 9, 2017 meeting as planned. The 
meeting was extremely brief, lasting approximately two minutes. The Board unanimously voted 
to approve all three motions, and the Board then adjourned without any further discussion. 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Commission 
of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A 
"deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of other 
procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a 
meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id For the purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority of the members of the public body. Id. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. The 
Board denies that its members deliberated prior to the March 9, 2017 meeting. To support its 
allegation, the complaint points to the lack of substantive discussion during the March 9, 2017 
meeting. We have stated in a prior determination that unanimous agreement among public body 
members is insufficient to support the inference that those members deliberated outside of a 
noticed meeting. See OML 2013-128. The motions were distributed in advance of the meeting, 
giving each member time to familiarize themselves with the contents. Further, the report on 
which the Town Administrator based the motions was provided, adding further context for the 
Board members. Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body's account of 
the facts. See OML 2016-141. Accordingly, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
DISCUSSION 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
K 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Townsend Board of Selectmen 
Stephen Sheldon 
2 
===PAGE 3===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 