===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
March 9, 2020 
OML 2020 - 33
Brian J. O’Toole, Esq.
Ryan & Boudreau, P.C.
129 College Street 
South Hadley, MA 01075
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney O’Toole:
This office received a complaint from Joseph Chaloux on April 23, 2019, alleging that 
the Granby Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 4, and you responded, on behalf of 
the Board, by letter dated March 28, following an extension of time granted by our office. The 
complaint alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting.
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notices and 
open session minutes of the Board’s February 4 and February 19 meetings, as well as a video 
recording of the February 19 meeting.2 In addition, we reviewed the warrant and minutes of the 
Special Town Meeting held on February 4, as well as a video recording of the Special Town 
Meeting.3 We also reviewed a video recording of the December 17, 2018, meeting.4 Finally, we 
spoke with you by telephone on January 15, 2020, January 23, 2020, and February 19, 2020, 
with Board member Jay Joyce by telephone on January 22, 2020, and with Board member Glen 
Sexton by telephone on February 24, 2020.
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2019 unless otherwise indicated.
2 A video recording of the February 19 meeting can be found here: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7cCKdpzDL7U.
3 A video recording of the February 4 Special Town Meeting can be found here: 
https://www. youtube. com/watch?v=mnHMhM2pqX8.
4 A video recording of the December 17, 2018, meeting can be found here: 
https://www. youtube. com/watch?v=R2GMZuHnV3c

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body; thus two 
members constitute a quorum. Section 5.99 of the Town of Granby Zoning Bylaws permits the 
construction of large-scale ground-mounted solar installations on parcels of land larger than two 
acres. Before construction or installation, a proponent of such project must provide a site plan to 
and receive approval of such plan from the Planning Board.
During a December 17, 2018, meeting, the Board reviewed six proposed warrant articles 
to be presented at a Special Town Meeting on February 4. One warrant article, Article One, was 
“to see if the Town will vote to amend the Bylaws of the Town of Granby by inserting Chapter 
XVII Section 10 Large-Scale Ground-Mounted Solar Energy Systems Moratorium, or take any 
other action in regards thereto.” Town Administrator Christopher Martin explained that this 
article would establish a temporary moratorium on the construction of large-scale ground- 
mounted solar energy systems.
On February 1 at 1:59 P.M., the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on February 
4 at 6:30 P.M. in the gymnasium of the Granby High School. The notice listed one topic, New 
Business and Information: Affirm Appointments.5 The notice also listed the Special Town 
Meeting at 7:00 P.M.
Sometime prior to the February 4 meeting, Mr. Martin spoke with Town Legal Counsel 
Brian O’Toole about the legality of Article One and whether the Town might be subject to 
lawsuits from solar companies. On the day of the February 4 Special Town Meeting, Mr. Martin 
spoke with Planning Board Chair James Trompke about the potential legal issues with Article 
One and the possibility of postponing the Article.
The Board met at 6:30 P.M. on February 4 in the gymnasium of the High School, where 
the Special Town Meeting would later occur at 7:00 P.M. that evening. Several tables were set 
up at one end of the gymnasium and the Board sat at one of these tables during its February 4 
meeting. The Board met for approximately one minute and appointed an individual to the 
Zoning Board of Appeals. The Board then adjourned at 6:31 P.M.
Board members have different recollections of exactly what occurred next but agree that 
the Board reconvened just prior to the beginning of the Special Town Meeting and briefly 
discussed Article One. Board member Jay Joyce recalled that he left the table after the Board 
adjourned but remained in the gymnasium. At some point prior to the start of the Special Town 
Meeting, he was called back to the table and told by a Board member that Article One was being 
withdrawn. Board member Glen Sexton remained at the table with Board Chair Stephen 
Chojnacki after the Board adjourned.6 Mr. Sexton recalls that Mr. Trompke approached them 
and expressed his concern with the legality of Article One. This was the first time the Article’s 
legality had been brought to Mr. Sexton’s and Mr. Chojnacki’s attention. Both Mr. Sexton and
5 We remind the Board that to the extent that it knows the name of the specific individual to be appointed to a public 
body, such information should be included in the meeting notice. See 2015-196; OML 2014- 155; OML 2011-11.
6 Mr. Chojnacki is no longer a member of the Board.
2

===PAGE 3===
Mr. Chojnacki agreed that the Board should reconvene and discuss whether to withdraw Article 
One from the Special Town Meeting.
The February 4 meeting minutes state: “At 6:51 pm, Mr. Martin was informed that the 
Board meeting was reconvened. Mr. Chojnacki then informed Mr. Martin that the Board was 
withdrawing the motion under Article 1 of the Special Town Meeting. Mr. Martin asked Mr. 
Joyce if he was in agreement, to which Mr. Joyce state [sic] no. On a motion by Mr. Sexton and 
seconded by Mr. Chojnacki, the meeting was re-adjourned at 6:56 pm.”
The Special Town Meeting began at 7:02 P.M. and Moderator Lynn Snopek Mercier 
announced that Article One had been withdrawn and “there will be no discussion or comments 
on this Article.” The remaining five articles passed and the Special Town Meeting adjourned at 
8:05 P.M.
The Board held a meeting on February 19, during which it met jointly with the Planning 
Board for approximately one hour. Both Boards discussed Article One and how it came to be 
withdrawn at the Special Town Meeting. Mr. Martin stated he was “poked” by Chair Chojnacki 
and told that the Board meeting was reconvened in order to withdraw Article One. However, 
Mr. Martin stated that he had previously spoken with the Town Moderator and determined that 
the Article could be postponed instead. In fact, he thought that is what would happen. The 
Boards then discussed the solar project applications pending before the Planning Board and the 
effects of the now-withdrawn article on these projects.
Finally, during the February 19 meeting, the Board reviewed the minutes of the February 
4 meeting and approved them as amended. Specifically, the Board voted to add the following 
language to the February 4 meeting minutes: “a vote was taken by a motion made by Glen 
Sexton and seconded by Stephen Chojnacki to withdraw article 1. The vote was (2-0-0) Mr. 
Chojnacki and Mr. Sexton yes. Mr. Joyce indicated that he did not know a vote was being 
taken.”
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.” Ich For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is 
a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id.
The complaint alleges that the Board improperly met to discuss the withdrawal of Article 
One. During its properly posted meeting on February 4, the Board met for one minute and 
appointed an individual to the Zoning Board of Appeals. The Board then adjourned and one
3

===PAGE 4===
member walked away. Approximately 20 minutes later, the Board reconvened and discussed 
and voted to withdraw Article One from the Special Town Meeting. Although we acknowledge 
that the Board reconvened the meeting in an attempt to comply with the Open Meeting Law, it 
was clear that the Board had already adjourned the meeting such that anyone in attendance 
would have understood that the meeting had concluded. As such, we find that any discussions 
regarding Article One were not open to the public. See OML 2016-140; compare OML 2019- 
117 (no violation where chair mistakenly stated that public body would “adjourn” but it was 
clear to everyone present that she actually meant “recess” and public body did not take any 
action to suggest that meeting was actually adjourned).7
The Board argues that the discussion regarding the withdrawal of Article One constituted 
an emergency for which the Board could have properly reconvened its February 4 meeting. An 
“emergency” is defined as “a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances 
demanding immediate action.” See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Emergency meetings are reserved for 
circumstances that are unanticipated and require an immediate response to. See OML 2016-70; 
OML 2011-45. We agree that the discussion of Article One was unanticipated but we do not 
agree that it was a circumstance that needed an immediate response. In fact, Mr. Martin stated 
that the Article could have been postponed and then discussed during the Special Town Meeting. 
Therefore, we find that the Board deliberated outside of an open meeting in violation of the Open 
Meeting Law when it discussed Article One after the adjournment of its February 4 meeting.
We note, however, that had the Board not adjourned its meeting, it could have discussed 
the withdrawal of Article One, despite the fact that it was not included on the notice, because it 
was an unanticipated topic. See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87 (a public body may discuss a topic 
not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of 
the meeting).
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a properly posted meeting. We order the Board’s immediate and future 
compliance with the law’s requirements, and caution that similar future violations could be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
7 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
4

===PAGE 5===
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Joseph Chaloux
Granby Select Board
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
5
