===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY TEL: (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
March 27, 2018 
OML 2018-41 
Jeffrey Garber, Chair 
Middleton Board of Assessors 
48 South Main Street 
Middleton, MA 01949 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Garber: 
This office received a complaint from Teresa Buono on January 19, 2018, alleging that 
the Middleton Board of Assessors (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about December 13, and 
the Board responded in a letter dated December 19. In her complaint, Ms. Buono alleges that 
a topic listed on the Board's November 30 meeting notice lacked sufficient detail.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed a supplementary letter from the Board to our office, dated February 6, 2018, as well 
as the notice and minutes from the Board's November 30 meeting. Finally, we spoke with the 
complainant by telephone on February 7. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. Pursuant to G. L. c. 40, § 56, the Board is responsible for 
providing the Board of Selectmen with tax and assessment information in preparation for its 
annual tax classification hearing. On November 30, the Board held a meeting to discuss, in 
part, the upcoming annual tax classification hearing, which was scheduled to be held by the 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise specified. 
2 Ms. Buono also alleges that the public was not afforded sufficient time for adequate review and comment 
regarding the proposed Fiscal Year 2018 tax classifications. Given that our office is charged specifically with 
reviewing complaints to determine compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, we decline 
to review, and offer no opinion on, whether there was a violation of any separate public hearing law. See OML 
Declination 12-22-15 (Avon Zoning Board of Appeals). 
O 
===PAGE 2===
Board of Selectmen on December 5. The Board posted this topic on its meeting notice as, 
"Update for Certification & Classification schedule." During the meeting, the assistant 
assessor distributed a packet of information to the Board and provided a summary of the 
information. This packet, pre-dated December 5, had already been submitted to the Board of 
Selectmen on November 29, and made available to the public on the Town website on 
December 1. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Taw was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge.. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body must post notice of every meeting at 
least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). Notices must include "a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." Id The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We 
generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could 
read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See 
OML 2015-35.3 
The complaint alleges that the Board should have identified on its meeting notice that 
it planned to discuss tax classifications. The Board responded that its business is valuation 
and tax, thus a member of the public can infer that it planned to discuss tax classifications. 
We agree with the Board. Although the complainant's position is reasonable, we find that, in 
this instance, the topic as posted, "Update for Certification & Classification schedule," met 
the minimum requirements for posting notice under the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2017-
82; OML 2017-33; OML 2016-107. According to the Board's mission statement, the Board's 
charge is to "value Real and Personal Property in accordance with the laws of the 
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, administer exemption, abatement, and excise programs and 
assist taxpayers, as well as other town departments, in a courteous, innovative and fiscally 
responsible manner."4 In light of the Board's limited charge, we decline to find a violation 
for the Board's omission of the word, "tax," from this topic. That being said, we strongly 
encourage the Board to include such detail in its meeting notices going forward. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 Available at http://www.townofTniddleton.org/316/Board-of-Assessors. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
/I 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Teresa Buono 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 