===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
November 24, 2014 
OML 2014-136 
Donna L. MacNicol, Esq. 
MacNicol & Tombs, LLP 
393 Main St. 
P.O. Box 985 
Greenfield, MA 01302 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney MacNicol: 
This office received a complaint from Deborah Nicholson, dated July 25, alleging that the 
Ashfield Select Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on June 16, and the Board responded by letter 
dated July 1. In her complaint, Ms. Nicholson alleges that the notice for the Board's May 19 
meeting was not sufficiently specific, and that the Board entered into executive session for an 
improper purpose on the same date. Additionally, she asserts that on that date the Chair failed to 
state prior to entering executive session that having the discussion in open session would be 
detrimental to the Board's negotiating position. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this matter. 
Following our review, we find that while the subject of the Board's May 19 executive session 
was appropriate, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include a sufficiently 
detailed description of this executive session topic in its meeting notice and failing to follow 
certain required procedures for entering into executive session on that date. We find that the 
notice was sufficiently specific with respect to the open session topic at issue. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Board; the Board's 
response; the request for further review filed with our office; and the Board's August 26 
response to our office's request for documents and information. We reviewed the notice, open 
and executive session minutes, and audio recording of the Board's May 19 meeting.2 We also 
reviewed the minutes and audio recordings of the Board's July 15, 2013 and September 30, 2013 
open session meetings, and a certified copy of the May 3 Ashfield Annual Town Meeting 
warrant and votes. Finally, we reviewed a November 24 email from the complainant to our 
' All dates in this letter refer to the year 2014, unless otherwise noted. The complainant's request for further review 
of this matter was received by our office on August 1. 
2 Only the open session portion of this meeting was recorded. Minutes of this executive session remain confidential 
O 
===PAGE 2===
office, and we spoke via telephone with Attorney Donna MacNicol on November 4 and 
November 19; with Board Chair Tom Carter on November 10; and with the complainant on 
November 20. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. During an open meeting on July 15, 2013, the Board 
discussed a letter from the Franklin County Regional Flousing and Redevelopment Authority 
(FCRHRA) and Rural Development Inc. (RD1), requesting subordination of the Town of 
Ashfield's lien on property known as the Ashfield House. A representative of the Finance 
Committee recommended to the Board during the meeting that it seek to negotiate a cash 
settlement in exchange for the Town's surrender of this lien. Board Member Paulette Leukhart 
then suggested the matter should go to a vote at Town Meeting, and another Board member 
suggested they discuss the potential for a settlement with a representative of the FCRHRA who 
was in the audience. After discussing proposed settlement amounts with that representative, a 
motion was made by the Chair to subordinate the Town's lien so that the Ashfield House could 
gain its refinancing, but also to put an article on the warrant for the May 2014 Annual Town 
Meeting about releasing the lien entirely. The motion passed by a vote of two in favor, one 
opposed. The loan subordination agreement was signed during an open meeting of the Board on 
September 30, 2013. 
On May 3, the Town of Ashfield held its annual Town Meeting. Amongst the articles 
passed was Article 14, to "authorize the Select Board to discharge the lien on the Ashfield 
House, LLC, for a cash settlement." 
On May 12, the Board posted notice for a May 19 meeting. The agenda for the meeting 
listed thirteen items. Under "5. New Business," the notice included the subtopic "e. Housing and 
Redevelopment Authority (HRA) negotiations." The notice also including the following item: 
12. Executive Session: Time permitting and if needed the Select Board will meet in 
Executive Session under MGL Chapter 3OA, Section 21 (a) (6), To consider the purchase, 
exchange, lease or value of real property if the Chair declares that an open meeting may 
have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body. 
During the open session portion of the Board's May 19 meeting, when the Board reached 
the topic regarding the Housing and Redevelopment Authority negotiations. Chair Carter said he 
thought it was important that one of the members be appointed to negotiate whatever terms there 
would be on releasing the lien as authorized at Town Meeting. He volunteered to be the Select 
Board point person on this issue, and noted that an executive session to discuss negotiating 
strategy was on the agenda for later in the meeting. Selectman Coler then made a motion, "In 
accordance with Article 14 of our annual town meeting warrant," to have the Chair "represent 
this board to negotiate the terms of that settlement." The motion was seconded and passed 
unanimously.4 
After considering several more items, and following the public comment period, the 
Board concluded its meeting by entering into executive session "under Chapter 30(a), Section 
3 For the purpose of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
4 The minutes record this discussion under subsection "F," though the agenda listed it as subtopic "E." 
2 
===PAGE 3===
21(a)(6) to consider negotiation that has to do with property." The Chair stated that the Board 
would not reconvene in open session at the conclusion of the executive session, but did not state 
that having this discussion in open session would have a detrimental effect on the body's 
negotiating position. The Board members then took a roll call vote, which passed and the Board 
entered into executive session. During the executive session, the Board discussed the parameters 
of the amount they would be willing to accept for the Ashfield House lien discharge. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Board Entered into Executive Session on May 19 for a Proper Purpose 
A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a). One such purpose is Purpose 6, "[t]o consider the purchase, exchange, lease or 
value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the negotiating position of the public body." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) (Purpose 6). 
The complainant asserts that "a lien on public property created by federal CDBG Small 
Cities Core Focus Program funds does not constitute a purchase, exchange, lease, or value of real 
property for the purpose of entering into an executive session under [Purpose 6]." Additionally, 
she contends that open session discussion of the matters discussed by the Board on May 19 
would not have detrimentally effected the Board's negotiating position because the topic had 
been discussed during previous open meetings. 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by entering into executive 
session during its May 19 meeting. The Board concedes that it did not own the property 
discussed during its executive session, but argues that "a discussion concerning what the Select 
Board determined was an acceptable amount to discharge the note and mortgage on real estate 
held by the Town was an appropriate reason for executive session." We agree. During the 
executive session, the Board discussed matters concerning the value of its financial interest in 
real estate. While the idea of negotiating a discharge of the lien had been publicly discussed, and 
proposed dollar values for a cash settlement were even considered during the Board's July 15 
open meeting, the range of the Chair's negotiating authority had not been decided at this time. 
The Board contends that having this discussion in open session would have had a detrimental 
effect on the Town's negotiating position "as the Housing Authority would be aware of the least 
amount acceptable for the discharge." Because open session discussion of the Chair's 
negotiating authority could have detrimentally effected the Board's negotiating position, we find 
that the May 19 executive session discussion was proper. 
II. The Board Failed to Follow Required Procedures before Entering into Executive Session 
on May 19 
Although the lien discharge was an appropriate topic for discussion under executive 
session Purpose 6, the law required that the Chair state publicly before the executive session that 
"an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6). The Chair failed to do so on May 19. The Board admitted that the 
minutes of its May 19 meeting "do not reflect in the motion to go into executive session that 
Chairman Carter declared that 'open session would have a detrimental effect on the Town's 
negotiating position.'" The audio recording of this meeting makes clear, however, that the 
3 
===PAGE 4===
failure was not simply to record the statement, but rather to make the statement at all. This was a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. OML 2013-40.5 
Additionally, we find that the Chair's verbal statement of the purpose for the May 19 
executive session was not sufficiently specific. The Chair stated only that the executive session 
was, "under Chapter 30(a), Section 21(a)(6) to consider negotiation that has to do with property." 
Earlier in the meeting, the Chair stated that the executive session later in the evening would be to 
discuss negotiating strategy with respect to releasing the lien as authorized at Town Meeting. It 
is clear, therefore, that disclosing this information about the property to be discussed would not 
have detrimentally effected the Board's negotiating position. That additional detail about the 
anticipated discussion topic should have been included in the verbal statement of the purpose for 
this session. 
In response to the complaint. Town Counsel stated that as a remedial measure she has 
requested that the Board use her typed written motions for executive session in the future. We 
commend the Board for taking steps to prevent future similar violations. 
III. The Executive Session Topic in the Notice for the Board's May 19 Meeting was not 
Sufficiently Specific, however the Open Session Topic at Issue was Sufficient 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to list certain topics in the notice for its May 
19 meeting with sufficient specificity. The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post 
notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The list of topics shall have 
"sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). Executive session topics must include as much detail as 
possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. District 
Attorney for N. Dist. v. School Comm. of Wayland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) ("[a] precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting 
law because that is the only notification given to the public that the school committee would 
conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so 
was proper or improper."); see G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b), 21(b)(3); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). When 
noticing an executive session pursuant to Purpose 6, a public body must identify the property to 
be discussed if doing so would not compromise the purpose for which the executive session was 
called. See OML 2013-97; OML 2012-52; OML 2010-2. 
The complainant argues, first, that the open session topic "Housing and Redevelopment 
Authority (HRA) negotiations" included in the notice for the May 19 meeting was not 
sufficiently specific. In support of this argument, she states, "this could have included one or 
both of the CDBG Grant projects now underway, the upcoming Housing and Rehabilitation Loan 
Program, or maybe current senior housing development plans." The Chair contends that none of 
these other items were before the Board at this time and, in response to the complaint, the Board 
asserted that "Citizens were clearly aware that 'Housing and Redevelopment Authority (HRA) 
negotiations' were as authorized by the Ashfield Annual Town Meeting article that directed the 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
wvvw.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
Select Board to enter into negotiations with the Housing Authority on the discharge of the 
mortgage and note." While additional information about the nature of the Board's discussion 
may have been helpful to the public, we find that the description of this topic was sufficiently 
specific to notify the public that the Board would be discussing the negotiations with the 
FCRHRA that were authorized at Town Meeting. See OML 2014-23. 
Although we find that this open session topic complied with the law, we find that the 
executive session topic listed in the notice for the May 19 meeting was not sufficiently specific. 
The topic cited the appropriate section of the Open Meeting Law, but gave no detail as to the 
property to be discussed behind closed doors. The Chair clearly anticipated discussing the 
Ashfield House lien at the time notice was posted for this executive session. Because the topic 
was anticipated and had been extensively discussed at previous open meetings, at Town Meeting, 
and indeed earlier during this same meeting in open session, we find that it would not have 
defeated the purpose of the executive session for the Board to state in the notice that the 
executive session was to discuss the Ashfield House lien. The Board's failure to do so violated 
the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2013-97; OML 2012-52; OML 2010-2. 
We find that while the subject of the Board's May 19 executive session was appropriate, 
the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include a sufficiently detailed description 
of this executive session topic in its meeting notice and by failing to follow certain required 
procedures for entering into executive session on that date. We find that the notice was 
sufficiently specific with respect to the open session topic at issue. 
We order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and 
caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of an intentional violation of 
the Law. Additionally, because we find that the Board's May 19 executive session was not held 
in compliance with G.L. c. 30A, § 21, the Board may not continue to withhold the minutes of 
this meeting under the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f) (minutes of an executive 
session may be withheld from disclosure to the public as long as publication may defeat the 
lawful purposes of an executive session, provided that the executive session was held in 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law); OML 2014-42; OML 2014-30; OML 2014-17. The 
Board may continue to withhold these minutes in whole or in part under any applicable 
exemptions to the Public Records Law or the attorney / client privilege. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or with 
the Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
CONCLUSION 
22(f). 
Si 
Amy L. Tslable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
5 
===PAGE 6===
cc: Deborah Nicholson 
Ashfield Select Board 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
6 