===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 13, 2016 
OML 2016-3 
David J. Francis 
President 
Weymouth Sportsmen's Club, Inc. 
PO Box 13 
Weymouth, MA 02188 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Francis: 
This office received two complaints from Kerry and James Dunn, dated December 8, 
2015, alleging that the Weymouth Sportsmen's Club, Inc. (the "Club") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaints allege that the Club 
suspended the complainants in violation of the Club's bylaws. The complaints were originally 
filed with the Club on November 1, 2015. The Club responded by letter dated December 5, 
2015. 
Following our review, we find that the Club is not a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, and thus could not have violated the Law's requirements. A threshold question 
raised by any alleged violation of the Open Meeting Law is whether the entity against which the 
complaint is filed is a "public body" subject to the Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting Law 
defines "public body" as "a multiple-member board, commission, committee or subcommittee 
within ... any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or 
otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Thus, to be a 
public body for the purposes of the Law, the entity must be (i) "within" government and not 
excluded from the definition of "public body"; (ii) a body empowered to act collectively; and 
(iii) charged to serve a public purpose. See OML 2010-1.1 When an entity is not clearly placed 
within government by law, it may still be "within" government if the government played a 
significant role in creating or structuring the group, the government has control over the group, 
and the group primarily performs an essentially government function. Id. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
wvvw.inass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
W 
===PAGE 2===
Here, the Club is a private non-profit organization formed pursuant to Section 501(c)(3) 
of the Internal Revenue Code. The Club is only open to dues-paying members. Government 
played no role in creating the Club, nor does government have control over its operation. 
Further, while the Club's Executive Board may be a multiple-member body that acts 
collectively, it was not established to serve a public purpose. The Club's purpose, according to 
its Bylaws, is "to promote legitimate sport with handguns, 22 rifles, bows, and other field sports; 
and to support propagation and conversation of fish and wildlife." The operation of this sort of 
social organization is not the type of essentially governmental function that falls within the scope 
of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2015-23; OML 2010-1. Accordingly, because the Club is 
not within government and does not serve a public purpose, we find that it is not a public body 
subject to the Open Meeting Law and could not have violated its requirements. 
We now consider this matter closed. Please feel free to contact our office at 617-963-
2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely,^ 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
^ Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Kerry and James Dunn 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
2 