===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
April 17, 2013 
OML 2013 - 50 
Cyndy S. Taymore 
Superintendent of Schools 
360 Lynn Fells Parkway 
Melrose, MA 02176 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Superintendent Taymore: 
This office received a complaint from Carrie Kourkamelis, dated April 21, 2012, alleging 
that the Melrose School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that during the Committee's January 24, 2012 
meeting, the Committee 1) failed to inform the complainant that the Committee would discuss 
her character and reputation during executive session; 2) held secret discussions prior to the 
meeting to agree to have the complainant removed from the deliberations; 3) failed to inform the 
public "that the need for secrecy included discussing the character of one of their members and 
request[ed] her recusal from the deliberations;" and 4) made deliberate efforts to exclude the 
complainant from participating in the full committee response to an Open Meeting Law 
complaint made by a member of the public. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on or about February 14, 2012. The Committee responded to the complaint in a letter 
dated March 14, 2012, following an extension granted by our office. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties as we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law because it did not 
discuss the complainant's reputation or character in executive session, and because the 
Committee had discretion to decide whether to allow the complainant to be present during its 
January 24, 2012 executive session. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the February 
14, 2012 complaint filed with the Committee; the Committee's March 14, 2012 response; and the 
April 21, 2012 complaint filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice and open and 
executive session minutes of the Committee's January 24, 2012 meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
On January 4, 2012, Ted Kenney, a Melrose resident, filed an Open Meeting Law 
complaint with the Committee regarding the method by which the Committee established a 
Superintendent Search Committee. On January 7, 2012, the complainant, who is a member of 
the Committee, filed a similar Open Meeting Law complaint. Following receipt of the two 
complaints, Committee Chair Kristin Thorp conferred with the Melrose City Solicitor and the 
school district's Legal Counsel and decided that the school district's Legal Counsel would draft a 
joint response to the two complaints. On January 19, 2012, the district's Legal Counsel sent a 
copy of the draft response to Superintendent Joseph Casey, who distributed the draft to the 
members of the Committee ahead of its January 24, 2012 meeting. Acting on the advice of the 
district's Legal Counsel, Superintendent Casey did not send a copy to the complainant. In his 
March 14, 2012 letter, Superintendent Casey writes that he did not send the complainant a copy 
of the draft response to her complaint "so that the School Committee could decide whether to 
include her in deliberations relating to the evaluation of its legal defenses and formulation of its 
strategy in response to her claim (and Mr. Kenney's claim) that the members broke the law in the 
manner described in the complaints." The notice for the January 24, 2012 meeting was posted 
on January 19, 2012, and included a topic listed as "Executive Session to consider Open Meeting 
law complaints brought against the Melrose School Committee by Mr. Ted Kenney, Ms. Maryan 
Hollis, and Ms. Carrie Kourkoumelis." 
During the Committee's January 24, 2012 meeting, the complainant addressed the 
Committee, criticizing the Committee's conduct of the superintendent search process and alleged 
lack of adherence to the Open Meeting Law. Later in the meeting, the Committee voted to enter 
into executive session "To consider Open Meeting Law complaints brought against the Melrose 
School Committee by Ms. Maryan Hollis, Mr. Ted Kenney and Ms. Carrie Kourkoumelis, and to 
return to open session." 
During the executing session, the Committee first discussed an Open Meeting Law 
complaint filed by Ms. Hollis. Following that discussion, the Committee considered the 
complaints filed by the complainant and Mr. Kenney. The District's Legal Counsel, Mary Jo 
Hollender, was present and explained to the Committee why the complainant had not received a 
copy of the draft response to the two complaints. She also explained to the Committee that she 
believed the Committee had the option to vote to exclude the complainant, who was still present 
at this point, from the discussion. The Committee then discussed whether the complainant 
should be allowed to remain in the executive session for the remainder of the discussion 
regarding the complaints. Following the discussion, the Committee voted 6-1 (with the 
complainant voting against) to ask the complainant to recuse herself from the discussion 
regarding her complaint and Mr. Kenney's complaint. The complainant writes in her April 21, 
2012 complaint that the discussion had an "atmosphere of bullying and malicious intent." She 
states that one Committee member told her that "if you were an honorable person, you would 
voluntarily recuse yourself," and that another told her that "either you are a member of this 
committee or you are a member of the public...you want it both ways." 
After the vote, the complainant left the meeting, stating that she did so under extreme 
protest. The Committee then discussed its response to the two Open Meeting Law complaints, 
2 
===PAGE 3===
and voted to accept the draft response that had been prepared by Attorney Hollender. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b), states in relevant part that, "[e]xcept in an 
emergency, in addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice 
of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays... Notice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the 
date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed at the meeting." Any topic discussed at a meeting that was reasonably 
anticipated by the chair of the public body must be listed in a meeting notice at least 48 hours in 
advance of the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies must list topics in a meeting notice 
with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). For an executive session topic, in both the notice and at the 
meeting itself, the chair must "state the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that 
may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). 
The Open Meeting Law sets forth ten purposes for which public bodies may enter 
executive session to conduct deliberations outside of the public view. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). 
Purpose 1 allows a public body to enter executive session "to discuss the reputation, character, 
physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence of an individual, or to 
discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, 
employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The individual to be discussed 
during such an executive session must be notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours 
prior to the proposed executive session, and has the right to be present during deliberations, has 
the right to have counsel present, and has the right to speak on her own behalf Id. 
1. The Committee did not Violate the Open Meeting Law because it did not Discuss the 
Complainant's Character and Reputation in Executive Session.  
After reviewing the minutes of the January 24, 2012 executive session, we do not find 
evidence that the Committee discussed the complainant's reputation or character, as the 
complaint alleges. While the complainant was still present, the Committee discussed whether 
she had a right to be present in the executive session after filing a complaint. The complainant 
writes in her April 21, 2012 complaint that this discussion contained an "atmosphere of bullying 
and malicious intent." She explains that one Committee member told her that "if you were an 
honorable person, you would voluntarily recuse yourself," and that another states that "either you 
are a member of this committee or you are a member of the public...you want it both ways." 
Although it appears that the executive session was tense and confrontational, it did not involve 
discussion of the complainant's character or reputation. Rather, the Committee discussed 
whether the complainant should be present during its discussion of her Open Meeting Law 
complaint and a related Open Meeting Law complaint. After the Committee voted to ask the 
complainant to recuse herself, the discussion then turned to responding to the two Open Meeting 
Law complaints. Because there was no discussion of the complainant's reputation or character, 
we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
2. We find no Evidence that the Committee Deliberated Prior to the January 24, 2012 
Meeting about Removing the Complainant from the Meeting.  
Although various individuals discussed the complaint and procedures for responding to it 
prior to the January 24, 2012 meeting, we do not find any evidence that this discussion reached a 
quorum of the Committee's seven members. In the Committee's March 14, 2012 response to the 
complaint, Superintendent Casey writes that, upon receiving the two Open Meeting Law 
complaints, Committee Chair Kristin Thorp conferred with City Solicitor Robert Van Campen 
and the school district's Legal Counsel, Mary Jo Hollender, neither of whom is a member of the 
Committee. They agreed that Attorney Hollender would draft a single response to the two 
complaints. Attorney Hollender provided a draft of that response to Superintendent Casey, who 
acts as Secretary to the Committee but is not a member, on January 19, 2012. Acting on advice 
of counsel, Superintendent Casey distributed a draft of the response to all the Committee 
members, except the complainant, for discussion at the Committee's January 24, 2012 meeting. 
Attorney Hollender again conferred with Chair Thorp and City Solicitor Van Campen ahead of 
the January 24, 2012 meeting regarding a state ethics disclosure statement related to the 
anticipated request to the complainant that she recuse herself from the executive session. 
Because only one Committee member participated in this series of communications, there was no 
improper deliberation outside of an open meeting. 
3. The Committee did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Excluding the Complainant 
from the January 24, 2012 Executive Session.  
The Committee entered executive session on January 24, 2012 to discuss separate Open 
Meeting Law complaints filed by the complainant and by Mr. Ted Kenney. A public body may 
enter into executive session under Purpose 1 to discuss "complaints or charges brought against, a 
public officer, employee, staff member or individual" when considering an Open Meeting Law 
complaint. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1); OML 2011-6. 1  Here, the Committee entered into 
executive session to discuss complaints brought against the members of the Committee. In 
general, when a complaint is filed against a public body, Purpose 1 guarantees all members of 
that body the right to be present during an executive session discussion about that complaint. 
However, here, the complainant was a member of the Committee. The party filing a complaint 
does not have a right to be present in a Purpose 1 executive session, but may attend at the 
discretion of the public body. Because we find that the complainant was lodging a complaint 
against Committee members other than herself, we treat her solely as the complainant, and not a 
subject of the complaint. Therefore, whether or not she was permitted to participate in the 
executive session was a matter at the discretion of the Committee. 
The complainant was not entitled under the Open Meeting Law to be present during the 
executive session at which the Committee discussed her Open Meeting Law complaint. 
However, the Committee also discussed its response to a similar complaint filed by Mr. Kenney 
against the Committee. The Committee ultimately approved a joint response to both complaints. 
Because the two complaints were so similar, it was not unreasonable for the Committee to ask 
the complainant to recuse herself from the executive session so that it could consider the joint 
response. Additionally, because the allegations in the two complaints were substantially the 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
4 
===PAGE 5===
same, the complainant was not the subject of Mr. Kenney's complaint, and thus not entitled 
under Purpose 1 to be present. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. 
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this letter, 
please do not hesitate to contact me at the number below. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Carrie Kourkoumelis 
Mary Jo Hollender, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
5 