===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 6, 2017 
OML 2017-111 
Joslin Murphy 
Brookline Town Counsel 
333 Washington Street 
Brookline, MA 02445 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Murphy: 
This office received a complaint from Brooks Ames on May 22, alleging that the 
Brookline Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about April 18, and 
you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated May 5. In his complaint, Mr. Ames 
alleges that the Board created a subcommittee that did not comply with the Open Meeting 
Law. Additionally, Mr. Ames alleges that, based on comments posted on a Board's 
member's personal Facebook page, the Board deliberated outside of a meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed the notice, minutes and video-recording of the Board's March 7 
meeting, as well as the Facebook post at issue. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum. In the fall 2016, the Board began reviewing the Town's 
policies pertaining to immigrants and refugees, in particular, a 2012 Special Order of the 
Brookline Police Department concerning Immigration and Customs Enforcement ("ICE") 
detainers. In January 2017, the Board voted to refer the matter to the Town's Commission 
for Diversity, Inclusion and Community Relations (the "Diversity Commission") for 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise indicated. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
review and a recommendation to the Board. The Diversity Commission provided written 
proposed policies to the Board on February 15. 
On March 7, the Board held a public hearing regarding those proposed policies. At 
the conclusion of the hearing, the Board chair then suggested that the Board approve 
certain portions of the draft proposal, but leave open the possibility of revising other 
sections based on the public comment received that evening. The chair suggested that the 
draft be sent back to the Diversity Commission to incorporate the public's comments. 
Noting that no member of the Diversity Commission was at the meeting, the chair asked 
whether a Board member would "lead the effort" to complete the task. Board member 
Nancy Daly suggested that Board member Bernard Greene lead the effort. Then, as 
another Board member spoke, Ms. Daly turned to Mr. Greene and offered to help him. 
While the Board did not formally appoint Mr. Greene to undertake the revision project, the 
chair addressed him when the chair stated that some sections of the document remained 
unapproved pending further revision and consideration. 
Following this meeting, Ms. Daly and Mr. Greene, along with the Police Chief and 
a member of the Diversity Commission, Tony Naro, worked to finalize the document for 
the Board's review at its April 18 meeting. Ms. Daly emailed her suggested edits to Mr. 
Greene, who then made his own changes to the draft, which he may have emailed back to 
Ms. Daly. On April 14, Mr. Greene published a link to the draft, via the Town's website, 
on his Facebook page with the following comments: "Proposed policies prepared by 
Selectmen Daly and me with the support of Tony Naro and Chief O'Leary. 
Comments/critiques are welcome." Any person with a Facebook account can access this 
post. Two other Board members are "friends" with Mr. Greene on Facebook. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Board Did Not Create a Subcommittee Subject to the Open Meeting 
Law. 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to a public body, which is defined, in relevant 
part, as "a multiple member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the 
executive or legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however 
created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public 
purpose[.]" G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "subcommittee" is defined as a multiple-member body 
created to advise or make recommendations to a public body. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
The complaint alleges that the Board created a subcommittee, consisting of Mr. 
Greene and Ms. Daly, tasked with revising the Town's draft policies pertaining to 
immigrants and refugees. We find that the Board did not create a subcommittee during its 
March 7 meeting. Our analysis hinges on the Board's action and whether it intended to 
2 
===PAGE 3===
create a multiple-member body. See OML 2016-59; OML 2014-63.2 We find that the 
Board sought a single volunteer to work on the draft. Ms. Daly nominated Mr. Greene. 
The Board took no vote, but proceeded with an understanding that Mr. Greene would 
review the draft. During further discussion, Ms. Daly turned to Mr. Greene and offered to 
assist him. Had the Board formally appointed the two to collectively revise the draft 
policies, it would have created a subcommittee. However, we find that Ms. Daly, on her 
own initiative, offered to assist Mr. Greene in carrying out the task. This does not create a 
subcommittee. See OML 2016-106. Accordingly, we find that the Board did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law. 
II. The Board Did Not Improperly Deliberate Via Facebook. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all deliberation occur during a properly 
noticed meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or 
written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among 
a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction^]" Id; see also 
OML 2016-104 (even the expression of an opinion of one public body member on matters 
within a public body's jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if 
no other public body member responds). 
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board improperly communicated via 
Facebook when Mr. Greene posted a link on his public Facebook page to the draft policy 
revisions published on the Town website and invited comments or critiques regarding the 
draft. No Board members responded to the post. The Open Meeting Law does not restrict 
an individual's right to make comments to the general public. Rather, it restricts 
communication between or among a quorum of a public body outside of a meeting, 
indicating that the communicator's intent must be examined. Because Mr. Greene's post 
was directed to members of the public with Facebook accounts, rather than specifically to 
the Board, and because no Board member responded to the post, we find no violation. 
Additionally, even if a quorum of the Board had viewed the post, the link to the Town 
website could be considered the distribution of a document to be distributed in preparation 
for the Board's next meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18 ('"deliberation"' shall not include the 
distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents 
that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed"). 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending 
with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www .mass. go ve/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
have any questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Brooks Ames, Esq. 
Brookline Board of Selectmen 
Sincerely, 
. m anne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 