===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
January 31, 2022 
 
OML 2022 – 11 
 
 
Nicholas J. Chiusano 
Chair, Board of Health 
15 Middlefield Road, Box 4 
Chester, MA 01011 
 
By email only:  
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Mr. Chiusano, 
 
This office received a complaint from Lora Wade on December 27, 2021, alleging that 
the Chester Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on October 8, 2021, and the Board 
responded by email on November 15, 2021.1  The complaint alleges that the Board deliberated 
via social media outside of a properly posted meeting.   
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complaint 
filed with our office requesting further review.  We also spoke with the complainant by 
telephone on January 11, 2022.  We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.     
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Council of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
 
1 We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, 
the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the 
complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of 
the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).   

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may 
be discussed at a meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For the 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public 
body.  Id.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a meeting via Facebook.  The 
Open Meeting Law does not restrict an individual’s right to make comments to the general 
public.  See OML 2017-111.2  Moreover, posting in a Facebook group that includes a quorum of 
members of a public body is not in and of itself a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 
2020-139; OML 2018-145.  However, if a member of the Board were to communicate directly 
with a quorum of the Board over social media platforms such as Facebook, such communication 
may violate the Open Meeting Law.  We have reviewed the Facebook posts provided to us by the 
complainant and find no evidence that the posts involved communication directed to a quorum of 
the Board or that Board members responded to the posts of members.  Given the lack of evidence 
showing deliberation between or among a quorum of the Board, we find no violation of the Open 
Meeting Law.  However, our office cautions public bodies on the use of Facebook and other 
social media as it can be difficult to determine whether communication constitutes deliberation 
under the Open Meeting Law.  See AGO FAQ on Deliberation and Electronic Communication.3  
 
The complainant is further concerned that the Board uses social media to write harassing 
comments, that the Board has excluded her from seeing and responding to comments posted to 
town-related Facebook pages, and with the Board’s lack of professionalism and ethics.  The 
Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  An allegation of unprofessional conduct or incivility towards town employees 
or members of the public does not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 
Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners).  Nevertheless, our 
office encourages civility by and during meetings of public bodies.  Moreover, any concerns with 
the Board blocking individuals from posting comments would also be outside the scope of the 
Division’s review and we offer no opinion on whether any actions taken by the Board could be a 
violation of the First Amendment or some other law or regulation outside the scope of our 
review.   
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions.  
 
 
 
 
2 Open Meeting Law declinations and determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.msss.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
3 Available at http://www.mass.gov/ago/government-resources/open-meeting-law/oml-faqs/. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Lora Wade – By email only:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
