===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
       March 24, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 32 
 
 
Maria Luise 
Special Assistant to Mayor Gary Christenson 
Office of the Mayor 
215 Pleasant Street 
Malden, MA 02148 
 
By email only: mluise@cityofmalden.org 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Ms. Luise: 
 
This office received two complaints from Brian DeLacey on June 12, 2024, alleging that 
the Malden Community Fund Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The first complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about 
May 7, 2024, and the second complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about May 
27, 2024.  The Committee did not respond to either complaint.  The complaints allege that the 
Committee failed to respond to a request for meeting minutes.   
 
 We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters.  Following 
our review, we find that the Committee is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. 1  
Because we find that the Committee is not a public body, we also find that the Committee did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law by not providing meeting minutes.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the complaints filed with our office 
requesting further review, and the supplemental material attached to the requests.  In addition, 
we reviewed the Committee’s response, dated February 25, 2025, to this office’s request for 
additional information. 
 
1 We understand that the Committee is disbanding and that any funds it may have received will be allocated through 
a special revenue fund created by the City.  This determination addresses the Committee’s operation at the time the 
complaint was filed in 2024, and we take no position as to the operation of or the distribution of funds under any 
newly created entity. 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On November 12, 2013, the City of Malden entered into a 
Surrounding Community Agreement with Wynn Resorts.  At that time, Wynn Resorts planned to 
apply for a gaming license to develop and construct a luxury hotel and destination resort in the 
City of Everett.  As Malden shares a border with the City of Everett, Malden desired to enter into 
the Surrounding Community Agreement with Wynn to address the anticipated impact of the 
construction of the hotel and resort on Malden’s businesses, residents, infrastructure, public 
safety, transportation and roadway needs. 
  
One of the terms of the Surrounding Community Agreement was that Wynn would agree 
to pay a “Community Fund Payment” to the City of Malden to support non-profit organizations.  
Specifically, Wynn agreed to an annual payment of $100,000, which amount would increase by 
2.5% each year.  In return, the City of Malden would establish “a Committee or Board tasked 
with reviewing requests for assistance from qualified organizations and making determinations 
on the awarding of any portion of the Community Fund Payment.”  See Section 6 of Surrounding 
Community Agreement. 
 
On September 17, 2019, the Committee filed Articles of Organization with the Secretary 
of the Commonwealth’s Office and was organized as a charitable organization with non-profit 
status under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code.2  The stated purpose of the 
Committee was to “financially assist, aid and support non-profit organizations and other 
programming based in the City of Malden by administering funds received through the 
Surrounding Community Agreement . . . and/or funds received from any other individual, entity, 
or organization, whether public or private, nonprofit or for profit.”  See Article II.3   
 
The By-Laws of the Committee establish a Board of Directors who shall have primary 
responsibility for overseeing the activities of the Committee.  The Board of Directors shall 
consist of between three and five members who are designated by the Mayor of Malden and the 
President of the Malden City Council.  The three officers of the Committee – President, Clerk 
and Treasurer – are elected by the Board of Directors.  See By-Laws, Article III.  The President 
shall serve as Chair and may call meetings of the Board of Directors as needed.  In order to 
conduct business requiring a vote, three members of the Board of Directors must be present.  See 
By-Laws, Article IV. 
 
Between December 2019 and September 2023, the Committee held three meetings and 
created minutes of each meeting.4  On April 21, 2024, the complainant sent an email to Ms. 
 
2 The Articles were filed in compliance with G.L. c. 180, which applies to corporations which are established for, 
among other things, any civic, educational, charitable, benevolent or religious purpose.  See G.L. c. 180, § 4.  In 
addition, we note that certain corporations, and any community chest, fund, or foundation, organized and operated 
exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, testing for public safety, literary, or educational purposes, are exempt 
from taxation.  See 26 U.S.C.A. § 501(c)(3). 
3 The Articles of Organization can be found at 
https://corp.sec.state.ma.us/CorpWeb/CorpSearch/CorpSummary.aspx?sysvalue=nl.C19pAGe1.KUCUKgY7cikJY
ApviHYy.TqUXtvHjoc-. 
4 Specifically, the Committee held meetings on December 18, 2019, August 18, 2020, and September 19, 2023.  
Minutes of each meeting were provided to this office by the complainant. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Luise5 and the Town Clerk requesting copies of minutes of all Committee meetings held since 
2019.  On May 6, 2024, Ms. Luise responded to the request explaining that the Committee was a 
non-profit corporation.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law defines a “public body” as any “multiple-member board, 
commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any 
county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Supreme Judicial 
Court recognized an exemption to the Open Meeting Law in Connelly v. School Committee of 
Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991).  In Connelly, the Court held that where an individual public 
official creates a committee to advise that person on a decision that he has the sole authority to 
make, that committee is not subject to the Open Meeting Law.  Connelly, 409 Mass. at 235.   
 
To determine whether a multiple member entity is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, there are three factors we consider: 
 
1. The entity must be “within” government and not excluded from the definition of 
“public body;” 
2. The entity must be a “body” empowered to act collectively; and 
3.  The entity must serve a “public purpose.” 
 
See OML 2017-118; OML 2016-102; OML 2012-20; OML 2011-42; OML 2010-1.6  The 
Committee concedes that it is empowered to act collectively and serves a public purpose but 
contends that it was created to advise the Mayor and therefore falls within the Connelly 
exception.  However, we find that the Committee does not satisfy the first factor, that is, it is not 
“within” government.  Because we decide that the Committee is not a public body as it does not 
satisfy all three of the above factors, we need not reach the question of whether the Committee 
would fall within the Connelly exception.   
 
Where an entity is not clearly placed within government by law (as the Committee is 
not), it may still be “within” government if i) the government played a significant role in creating 
or structuring the group, ii) the government has control over the group, and iii) the group 
primarily performs an essentially governmental function.  See OML 2010-1.  We include only a 
brief discussion of how the Committee satisfies the first two factors, because we conclude that 
the Committee does not satisfy the third factor: performance of an essentially governmental 
function.  First, although the Committee is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization, the 
government (i.e., the City) played a significant role in creating the Committee by requiring its 
existence in the Surrounding Community Agreement negotiated with Wynn Resorts.  See OML 
2015-83.  Second, the members of the Board of Directors are appointed by government officials 
(by the Mayor and by the President of the Malden City Council) and as such the Committee is 
functionally under the control of City government.   
 
5 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
The third consideration is whether the group primarily performs an essentially 
governmental function.  While the Committee performs a public service, it does not primarily 
perform a governmental function.  The Committee does not possess traditional governmental 
powers such as powers to tax, the power to take property by eminent domain, or the power to 
regulate coercively individual group conduct.  See District Attorney for Northern District v. 
Board of Trustees of Leonard Morse Hospital, 389 Mass. 729, 733 (1983).  Although the 
Committee receives funds per the Surrounding Community Agreement, the receipt of public 
funds alone is an insufficient basis upon which to find the Committee subject to the Open 
Meeting Law’s requirements.  See OML 2015-23.  Moreover, we understand that all of the funds 
allocated to the Committee to disburse to other non-profit organizations were paid by Wynn 
Resorts pursuant to the Surrounding Community Agreement.  Here, the Committee was not 
required to seek the City’s approval prior to disbursement of any funds and the Committee’s 
primary function does not involve spending (or recommending how to spend) public monies to 
provide governmental services.  Rather, the Committee’s function was to financially assist, aid 
and support non-profit organizations and programming.  As such, the Committee does not serve 
a function necessary to government; it provides a service traditionally conducted by the private 
sector.  See MBTA Retirement Board v. State Ethics Commission, 414 Mass. 582, 587 (1993) 
(finding that whether an entity performs some “essentially governmental function” is one of the 
factors to determine whether that entity is subject to the state Conflict of Interest Law, G.L. c. 
268A).  While the Committee provides a public service by supporting non-profit organizations 
and programming, these services are not essentially a function of government.  We conclude that 
the Committee does not primarily perform an essentially governmental function and is not an 
entity “within” government.  See OML 2010-1 (finding that a board of directors of a community 
media organization, established as a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization, was not a public body 
where it performed a public function by providing televised coverage of government meetings 
and other educational programming, but such services are not traditional or exclusive roles of 
government and therefore organization did not perform a governmental function).  Because the 
Committee is not “within” government, it is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, 
and it did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee is not a public body subject to 
the Open Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be 
resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
the Committee or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
       
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Brian DeLacey – By email only:   
 Malden City Solicitor Alicia McNeil – By email only: amcneil@cityofmalden.org  
 Malden City Clerk Carol Ann Desiderio – By email only: cdesiderio@cityofmalden.org 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
 
