===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
January 15, 2015 
OML 2015-4 
Robert W. Galvin, Esq. 
Marshfield Town Counsel 
10 Enterprise Street, Suite 3 
Duxbury, MA 02332 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Galvin: 
This office received a complaint from Elaine Taylor on December 9, 2014, alleging that 
the Marshfield School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint specifically alleges that during the Committee's October 
14, 2014 meeting, the Committee discussed and voted on a topic that was not listed in its 
meeting notice. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on November 12, 2014. 
The Committee responded by letter dated November 21, 2014. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Committee, the 
Committee's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office. We also 
reviewed the minutes of the Committee's October 14, 2014 meeting, as well as a video of that 
meeting, provided by Ms. Taylor. Finally, we spoke by telephone with Ms. Taylor on December 
16, 2014, and with Committee Chair Marti Morrison by telephone on December 24, 2014. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. During its September 9, 2014 meeting, the Committee 
voted to change the name of a school district vacation period from "Christmas Vacation" to 
"Holiday Vacation." Several weeks later, Ms. Taylor contacted the Committee Chair and asked 
that the Committee reconsider the vote. The Chair informed Ms. Taylor that she could raise the 
issue during the public comment portion of an upcoming meeting. The Committee held a 
meeting on October 14, 2014. The notice for the meeting did not include the vacation name 
issue as a topic for discussion. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
During the Committee's October 14, 2014 meeting, several members of the public, 
including Ms. Taylor, spoke to the Committee during the public comment period about changing 
the vacation period's name back to "Christmas Vacation." The Committee did not discuss 
reconsidering its vote at that time. After the public comment period, Ms. Taylor and other 
members of the public left the meeting. Toward the end of the meeting, during a portion 
dedicated to discussing the agenda of future meetings, the Committee discussed whether it 
should place the vacation name issue on the agenda for a future meeting. During that discussion, 
the Chair asked the members whether anything they heard during the public comments would 
cause them to reconsider their vote. She looked at each member, and each expressed that he or 
she would not change their vote. Given the members' indication that they did not plan to change 
their votes, the Chair decided that further discussion was not needed and the topic would not be 
added to a future meeting agenda. 
DISCUSSION 
Except in an emergency, a public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. G.L. c. 3OA, § 
20(b). Notice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the 
date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed at the meeting. Id. A public body may discuss and take action on a topic that 
was not listed in a meeting notice if it was not anticipated by the chair at least 48 hours before 
the meeting. See OML 2012-3.' 
The subject of the appropriate name for the school district's winter vacation period was 
not included in the notice for the Committee's October 14, 2014 meeting. During the meeting, 
members of the public raised the issue during the public comment period. Although the Chair 
had discussed the issue with the complainant and told her that she was welcome to raise the topic 
during the public comment period, the Chair did not plan to raise the issue herself during the 
October 14, 2014 meeting. Because the Chair did not reasonably anticipate that the Committee 
would discuss the topic at this meeting, only that the issue might be raised by a member of the 
public, she was not required to list it in the meeting notice. At the conclusion of its October 14, 
2014 meeting, the Committee discussed the agenda for its next meeting, including whether the 
topic of the vacation period needed further discussion. The discussion and informal vote that 
occurred at that point also were not anticipated 48 hours before the meeting, but rather occurred 
in response to the comments made by members of the public during the meeting. We therefore 
find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by holding this discussion 
without providing notice that it would occur. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider this matter closed. This determination does not address any 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
other complaints that may be pending before this office or the Committee. Please feel free to 
contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Marshfield School Committee 
Elaine Taylor 
Sincerely 
5hathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3 