===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 11,2017 
OML 2017-56 
Thomas J. Harrington, Esq, 
Miyares and Hamngton LLP 
40 Grove Street 
Suite 190 
Wellesley, MA 02482 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Harrington: 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Alexander, dated March 16, alleging that 
the Wellesley School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
3OA, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on January 13, and the 
Committee responded by letter dated February 1. In his complaint, Mr. Alexander alleges that 
the Committee failed to convene in open session prior to entering executive session during its 
January 10 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response, and 
the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice and minutes of 
the Committee's January 10 meeting. We reviewed a March 21 letter from the Committee's 
counsel, addressed to our office, and an April 3 email from Mr. Alexander addressed to our 
office in response. Finally, we spoke with Mr. Alexander by telephone on March 27. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The notice for the Committee's January 10 meeting listed 
an executive session for 6:15 PM and an open session for 7:00 PM, in addition to other topics 
listed by time of consideration. According to the minutes of the January 10 meeting, the 
Committee "convened in Open Session at approximately 6:15 pm." The Committee entertained 
a motion by one its members to "enter into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing 
strategy with respect to future collective bargaining, and return to Open Session to continue with 
1 Unless otherwise noted, all dates refer to the year 2017. 
O 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
regular business." Following a roll call vote, the Committee proceeded in executive session. 
The Committee reconvened in open session at approximately 7:00 PM. Mr. Alexander did not 
attend the meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
Prior to entering into executive session, a public body must first convene in open session, 
the chair must state the purpose for the executive session, the public body must take a roll call 
vote to enter into executive session, and the chair must state whether the public body will 
reconvene in open session following the executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). During the 
Committee's January 10 meeting, the Committee properly convened in open session prior to 
entering into executive session. Therefore, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
Despite finding no violation of the law based on the allegations levied in the complaint, 
we do have concerns regarding the Committee's January 10 executive session. First, the January 
10 meeting notice suggested to the public that the meeting would not open until after the 
executive session. We recommend that, for future meeting notices, the Committee make clear 
that the Committee will convene first in open session prior to any executive session. See OML 
2015-105.2 Second, the Open Meeting Law requires that, "before the executive session, the chair 
shall state the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). 
Here, the minutes reflect that the chair announced that the Committee would meet in executive 
session to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining. However, the chair did not 
identify the subject of the executive session, specifically which collective bargaining units the 
Committee intended to discuss. See OML 2016-127. The chair also failed to announce that the 
Committee would be considering in executive session the approval of the Committee's August 
23, 2016 and September 13, 2016 meeting minutes. We encourage the Committee to be 
cognizant of these requirements in the future. 
Finally, the Committee responded to Mr. Alexander's Open Meeting Law complaint 
without first reviewing the complaint, as required by 940 CMR 29.05(5) ("Within 14 business 
days after receiving the complaint.. .the public body shall review the complaint's allegations; 
take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint 
and a description of any remedial action taken"). Our office has interpreted this requirement to 
mean that the Committee must meet within 14 business days to review the complaint before 
taking action in response or delegating the responsibility to respond to counsel.3 See OML 2017-
6, OML 2013-124; OML 2012-90. We remind the Committee of this requirement. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 Counsel for the Committee notes that, in Three Registered Voters of Lvnnfield v. Board of Selectmen of 
Lvnnfield. 90 Mass. App. Ct. 15, 19 (2016), the Massachusetts Appeals Court concluded that the Lynnfield Board of 
Selectmen did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to meet to review an Open Meeting Law complaint prior 
to counsel issuing a response. However, the Court noted that, although the Open Meeting Law does not explicitly 
require a meeting prior to issuing a response, the Attorney General's regulations require that any action taken prior 
to issuing a response to occur at a meeting. Lvnnfield. 90 Mass. App. Ct. at 19 n. 14. The Attorney General's 
regulations are binding upon public bodies, and a violation of the regulations is a violation of the Open Meeting 
Law. See G.L, c. 30A, § 25A; OML 2016-132 (concluding that a public body violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to adhere to requirements in the Attorney General's regulations). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: Wellesley School Committee 
Ronald Alexander 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 