===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
December 18, 2019 
OML 2019-160
Joseph Callanan 
Town Solicitor 
Town of Weymouth 
75 Middle Street 
Weymouth, MA 02189
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Attorney Callanan:
This office received two complaints from Gerard Mackin on December 4, 2018, alleging 
that the Weymouth School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 Both complaints were originally filed with the Committee on October 30, 
and you responded to both complaints, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated November 
20.2 The first complaint alleges that i) the Committee failed to follow proper procedures for 
convening in executive session on October 18, ii) the “Meeting of the Whole is not a true Public 
Hearing,” and iii) the Committee improperly discussed the employment status of a school 
employee during an open session of the October 18 meeting rather than in executive session.
The second complaint alleges that the Committee failed to respond to requests for information 
regarding its executive session discussions.
Following our review, we find that the Committee complied with the required procedures 
for convening in executive session but violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to indicate on 
its notice that the October 18 executive session meeting would include an open session that the 
public could attend. We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the 
other ways alleged in the first complaint. We decline to review the allegations raised in the 
second complaint for the reasons discussed below. In reaching this determination, we reviewed 
the original complaints, the Committee’s response to the complaints, and the complaints filed 
with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notices and open and executive 
session minutes of the Committee’s October 18 meeting.
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018, unless otherwise noted.
2 The parties engaged in mediation pursuant to 940 CMR 29.05(9), which concluded unsuccessfully in March 2019.

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. On October 16 at 3:23 P.M., the Committee posted notice 
for a “Meeting of the Whole” to be held on October 18 at 6:15 P.M. The notice listed three 
topics - School Committee Goals, Superintendent Evaluation, and Open Forum. At 3:29 P.M. 
on October 16, the Committee posted a separate notice for a meeting to be held on October 18 at 
7:00 P.M. This notice listed seven topics, including consent agenda, public comment, report of 
superintendent, and new and old business. At 3:31 P.M. on October 16, the Committee posted 
another notice for an executive session to be held on October 18 at 6:00 P.M. This notice 
included two executive session topics: to discuss “strategy regarding potential litigation related 
to investigations of and allegations involving a Unit B employee,” and review of executive 
session minutes. Both the open and executive sessions were to be held in the Mary J. 
Livingstone Humanities Center at Weymouth High School.3
The October 18 meeting was held as planned. The Committee first convened in open 
session at 6:00 P.M. and approved a unanimous vote by roll call to convene in executive session 
“to discuss strategy regarding potential litigation related to investigations of and allegations 
involving a Unit B employee” and to review one set of executive session minutes. Because the 
Committee has not publicly released the minutes of this executive session, we do not recount 
their content in detail here.
The Committee reconvened in open session at 6:30 P.M. During the “Meeting of the 
Whole,” the Committee discussed the goals for the Committee and the evaluation process for the 
Superintendent. Then, during the following open session, the Committee heard from the 
Superintendent who introduced the new interim director. When introducing the director, the 
Superintendent mentioned that the current athletic director, Kevin Mackin, was on leave. The 
Committee then discussed the remaining noticed topics.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). A public 
body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the 
Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is 
recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether 
the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.4
3 The notice posted for the “Meeting of the Whole” did not include a location of the meeting. We remind the 
Committee that every notice must include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the 
chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).
4 Open Meeting Law declinations and determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
The first complaint alleges that the Committee failed to follow the proper procedures 
prior to entering executive session on October 18. Prior to entering into executive session, a 
public body must convene in open session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive 
session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called, and a majority of the members of the public body must vote to 
enter into executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(b) (l)-(3). According to the minutes, the 
Committee opened the meeting at 6:00 P.M. on October 18 and unanimously voted to enter 
executive session for two specific purposes. We find that the Committee completed the 
appropriate procedural steps before convening in executive session, including announcing the 
purposes for the executive session and taking a roll call vote. In this respect, the Committee 
complied with the Open Meeting Law’s procedural requirements for entering executive session.
However, the public has a right to witness these procedural steps in order to observe the 
vote and learn the purpose for the executive session. See OML 2013-195. Here, the Committee 
posted separate notices for its open and executive session meetings on October 18. The notice 
for the Board’s October 18 executive session meeting listed an executive session at 6:00 P.M., 
and did not include any open session topics or reference that an open session meeting would 
precede or follow the executive session. When the only business to be discussed during an open 
session are the procedural requirements for entering executive session, we have written that 
public bodies must list “Open Session” on the meeting notice, as this is the only means by which 
members of the public are informed that a public body will, in fact, hold an open meeting that 
they are permitted to attend. See OML 2013-9; OML 2012-68. Without such notice, members 
of the public are essentially denied the opportunity to attend and learn the reasons for the 
executive session. See OML 2013-195. However, where additional open session topics are 
included in a meeting notice, we have not required that a public body list “Open Session” as a 
distinct topic. See OML 2015-157; OML 2015-110; OML 2015-105. Because the Committee 
posted separate notices for its open and executive session meetings, it was not clear that an open 
session meeting would take place prior to and following the executive session. The Committee 
should have listed “Open Session” in its October 18 executive session meeting notice, or 
alternatively, posted a single notice for an October 18 meeting that included the executive 
session among the meeting topics. By failing to indicate that the October 18 executive session 
meeting would include an open session that the public could attend, the Committee violated the 
Open Meeting Law.
The first complaint also alleges that the “Meeting of the Whole” was not a public hearing. 
If the complainant is concerned that the Committee limited or failed to allow public participation 
during this portion of the meeting, it is not a violation of the Open Meeting Law to do so as the 
law specifically states that “no person shall address a meeting of a public body without 
permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.” G.L. c. 30A,
§ 20(g); see OML 2017-181. As it is within the chair’s discretion to limit public participation 
during a meeting, the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to provide for 
opportunities for public participation. Nonetheless, we encourage public bodies to allow public 
participation whenever possible. See OML 2018-132; OML 2015-12; OML 2014-129; OML 
2012-59.
3

===PAGE 4===
Finally, the first complaint alleges that the Committee was required to meet in executive 
session because it discussed a school employee’s employment status. The Open Meeting Law 
does not require public bodies to meet in executive session but rather, if a public body chooses to 
meet in executive session, it must do so only for one of the enumerated purposes. One executive 
session purpose allows a public body to enter executive session “to discuss the reputation, 
character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence of an 
individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, 
a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). Here, when 
introducing the new interim athletic director, the Committee briefly mentioned Kevin Mackin’s 
name and that he was currently on leave. Even if this brief discussion related to the reputation 
and character of Kevin Mackin, which we do not believe it did, the Committee was not required 
to have such discussion in executive session and the subject of the discussion has no right under 
the Open Meeting Law to demand that the Committee do so. See OML 2012-32. As such, the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to meet in executive session.
The second complaint alleges that the Committee failed to respond to Freedom of 
Information requests sent by the complainant asking Committee members, as well as School 
Administrators, whether they discussed Kevin Mackin during any executive session. A public 
body must respond to a request for executive session minutes within 10 days. G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(g)(2). Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c.
30A, § 22(f). When the purpose, for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and 
any documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed, unless the attorney-client 
privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies. Id. Here, we find that the 
complainant simply requested general information and answers to questions and did not make a 
request for meeting minutes. As such, the allegations raised in this complaint do not concern the 
Open Meeting Law. Because the Division of Open Government’s statutory authority concerns 
compliance only with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, we decline to review this 
complaint. See OML 2015-17; OML Declination 3-11-15 (Wayland School Committee).
Finally, although not raised in either complaint, we note that it appears the Committee 
improperly met in executive session on October 18. A public body may convene in executive 
session under Purpose 3 to “discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if 
an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the 
public body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). Grievance matters may be 
discussed under Purpose 3 because they are part of the collective bargaining process. See 
Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 73 (1978) (“[cjollective 
bargaining sessions encompass not only the negotiations leading to the agreement, but also the 
resolution of grievances pursuant to the collective bargaining agreement”). Moreover, this 
purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with respect to litigation that is pending 
or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely; the mere possibility of 
litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3. See Doherty v. School Committee of Boston. 386 
Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Perryman v. School Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 
(1983); OML 2012-05. Based on our in camera review of the October 18 meeting minutes, the 
Committee appears to have discussed neither a grievance matter nor litigation. We recommend 
that the Committee release its October 18 executive session minutes.
4

===PAGE 5===
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to indicate on its notice that the October 18 executive session meeting would 
include an open session that the public could attend. We order immediate and future compliance 
with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Gerard Mackin
Weymouth School Committee
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
5
