===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
May 10, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 78 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Carolyn M. Murray, Esq. 
KP|Law 
cmurray@k-plaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Murray: 
 
This office received a complaint from Jill Mann on January 18, 2023, alleging that the 
Hubbardston Select Board (the “Board”),
1 violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on December 19, 2022,2 and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated December 21. The complaint alleges that the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law on November 21 by 1) failing to identify the nonunion 
personnel to be discussed in executive session; and 2) finalizing an agreement with the nonunion 
personnel in executive session.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s 
response, and the request for further review. We also reviewed the notice, open session, and 
executive session minutes for the Board’s November 21 meeting. The minutes for the November 
21 executive session have been released to the public. 
 
 As an initial matter, the Board asserts that the complaint should not be reviewed because 
a copy of the original complaint was not filed with the Town Clerk as required by 940 CMR 
 
1 The complaint also alleges that the Interim Town Administrator and current Town Administrator violated the Open 
Meeting Law. The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and individuals acting as public body members; 
therefore, we decline to review any allegations that the Interim Town Administrator and current Town Administrator 
violated the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25; OML Declination 3-13-2020 (Bourne Board of 
Selectmen).  
2 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
29.05(3). The Open Meeting Law requires that complaints be filed first with the public body 
al
leged to have violated the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). The Attorney 
General’s Open Meeting Law regulations additionally require that “a copy of the complaint [also 
be filed] with the municipal clerk, who shall keep such filings in an orderly fashion for public 
review on request during regular business hours.” 940 CMR 29.05(3).  
 
The complaint was filed by ema
 il on December 19 with the Chair and Vice Chair of the 
Board, the Town Administrator, the former Interim Town Administrator, Town Counsel, and the 
Board’s Executive Assistant. A copy of the complaint was not filed with the Town Clerk. 
Because the complaint was timely filed with the Board and the Board had the opportunity to 
review and respond to the allegations raised in the complaint, we review the complaint despite 
the fact that a copy was not also filed with the Town Clerk. See OML 2014-118, fn. 2; OML 
Declination 8-10-2016 (Mendon Board of Selectmen) (“A complaint is considered filed when it 
is received by the public body named in the complaint.”).3 
 
FACTS 
 
Based on the information available to our office, we find the facts to be as follows. The 
Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on November 21. The notice included the following 
executive session topic: “Executive Session: M.G.L c.30A, Sec. 21(a) 2. To conduct strategy 
sessions in preparation for negotiations with non-union personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with non-union personnel.” The notice did not 
identify the specific nonunion personnel to be discussed in executive session.  
 
At the end of the open session portion of the November 21 meeting, the Board moved to 
enter executive session under Purpose 2. The specific nonunion personnel to be discussed in 
executive session was not identified during an announcement prior to the executive session. 
During the executive session the Board discussed with the Chief of Police an extension of the 
Chief’s contract. Ultimately the Board voted in executive session to extend the Chief’s contract 
“through the end of March 2023 with a thirty day advance notice to extend it to the end of June 
2023 continuing with all the contract benefits he currently has prorated.” 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to me
mbers of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will 
be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The list of topics shall have sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b). Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any one or more of ten 
purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. One permissible reason to convene in executive 
session is “[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel 
or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.” 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”). The chair of the public body must first announce in open 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
session the purpose for the executive session, “stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compr
omising the purpose for which the executive session was called.” G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 
21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm, of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 
(“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary under the 
open meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public that the school Board 
would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for 
doing so was proper or improper”). Therefore, unless disclosure will defeat the purpose for the 
executive session, the public body should identify the specific personnel that is the subject of the 
negotiation both in the announcement prior to convening in executive session and on the meeting 
notice. See OML 2015-127; OML 2015-193; OML 2016-70. 
 
A public body may strategize and negotiate with nonunion personnel in executive session 
under P
urpose 2. See OML 2011-56. However, the scope of Purpose 2 is limited to the 
discussions, negotiations, and deliberations that occur prior to the execution of a contract. The 
Open Meeting Law does not permit a public body to execute a contract behind closed doors 
where the public cannot witness the agreement; any vote to execute an agreed-upon contract 
must take place in open session. See OML 2019-51; OML 2015-184; OML 2011-44 (finding a 
vote in executive session to extend an employment contract improper).  
 
We f
ind, and the Board acknowledges in part, that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to identify the nonunion personnel to be discussed in executive session in either 
the notice for the November 21 meeting or the announcement prior to convening in executive 
session. Additionally, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by voting in 
executive session to extend the Chief’s contract.  
 
Next, we must determine whether the Board’s violations were, as the Complainant urges, 
inte
ntional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public 
body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. 
An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of 
the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law. Id. We have not previously warned the Board against the violations found here, 
nor do we find other evidence that would support a finding of an intentional violation. We 
therefore decline to find that the violations were intentional. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and 
caution that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. Because the executive session minutes have 
already been released to the public, we do not order further remedial action.  
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Jeffrey L. Williams, Chair, Hubbardston Select Board (via email: 
jwilliams@hubbardstonma.us) 
 Hubbardston Select Board (via email: bos@hubbardstonma.us) 
Jill Mann (via e-mail: ) 
Hubbardston Town Clerk (via email: tclerk@hubbardstonma.us) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
