===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 25, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 87 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Rebecca Chane 
Chair, Georgetown Conservation Commission 
rchane@georgetownma.gov  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Chane: 
 
This office received a complaint from Kevin Wood on March 27, 2024, alleging that the 
Georgetown Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) and the Conservation Director, 
Michèle Grenier,
1 violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Commission on or about January 19, 2024. The Commission did not 
respond.2 The complaint alleges that during its December 21, 2023,3 meeting, the Commission 
discussed and voted to approve the removal of trees at 12 Lake Avenue in Georgetown without 
that topic having been included on the notice for the meeting. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, 
the request for further review, the notice for the December 21 meeting, and a video recording of 
 
1 We remind the Complainant that the Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and individuals acting in 
their capacity as public body members. It does not apply to town officials, employees, or other individuals not acting 
as members of a public body. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25; OML Declination 8-1-2022 (Adams Fire District); OML 
Declination 3-23-2023 (Milford Select Board).  
2 As we have in other determinations, we remind the Commission of its obligation to timely review and respond to 
Open Meeting Law complaints and note that failure to do so is a violation of the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c.  30A, 
§ 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
3 All dates are in 2023 unless stated otherwise.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
that same meeting.4 We also communicated with the Commission’s Chair5 and the Conservation 
Director by email.  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Commission posted notice for a meeting to be 
held on December 21. The notice did not include a topic related to 12 Lake Avenue in 
Georgetown or to tree removal.  
 
The Commission convened its meeting as scheduled. After discussing the majority of the 
substantive topics included on the meeting notice, the Chair turned to the notice topic “Items not 
reasonably anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting.” The Chair asked 
whether anyone had a matter to discuss under this topic. Receiving no response, the Chair began 
to turn to the final notice topic, which related to Open Meeting Law complaints. At this point, a 
resident—Michelle Muise, owner of 12 Lake Avenue—interjected and stated that she was 
responding to the previous topic regarding items not reasonably anticipated.  
 
Ms. Muise then explained that the Conservation Director had visited Ms. Muise’s 
property at 12 Lake Avenue to inspect three trees that Ms. Muise was concerned about and 
wanted to have removed. Ms. Muise then explained that the Conservation Director had told Ms. 
Muise that she would need written permission from the Commission and that she should attend 
the meeting to discuss the matter with the Commission. Thereafter, the Conservation Director 
confirmed that she had visited Ms. Muise’s property and that there were three trees Ms. Muise 
would like to remove. The Conservation Director described the condition of the trees and, in 
response to a question, noted that the trees were hazardous in their current condition. The 
Commission discussed removal of the three trees at 12 Lake Avenue as well as the need to 
discuss at a future meeting the possibility of giving the Conservation Director the authority to 
grant permission to remove hazardous trees. Ultimately, the Commission voted to allow Ms. 
Muise to remove the trees and for the Conservation Director to provide Ms. Muise with a letter 
memorializing the Commission’s approval.  
 
In communications with our office, the Conservation Director explained that the topic of 
removal of Ms. Muise’s trees was not anticipated for discussion at the December 21 meeting. 
The Conservation Director explained that she visited 12 Lake Avenue to assess the trees on 
December 7, but that at that time she informed Ms. Muise that she could not be added to the 
agenda for the December 21 meeting because the agenda was already set and was full. The 
Conservation Director explained to Ms. Muise that she should attend the Commission’s January 
meeting to discuss removal of her trees. Finally, in an email sent to the Conservation Director on 
February 15, Ms. Muise explained that it had been her impression that she “was not on the 
agenda [for the December 21 meeting] due to time constraints but could be discussed.”  
 
 
 
 
4 A video recording of the Commission’s December 21, 2023, meeting can be found at  
http://gctv.georgetownma.gov/show/7747. 
5 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “a public body shall post notice of every meeting at 
leas
t 48 hours prior to the meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(b). Meeting notices must include, among other things, a list of the topics that the 
chair, and any other individual authorized to create the notice, reasonably anticipates, 48 hours in 
advance of the meeting, will be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2022-
206; OML 2020-152.6 A public body may discuss a truly unanticipated topic at a meeting, 
although the Attorney General strongly recommends that public bodies postpone discussion and 
action on unanticipated topics that are controversial or may be of particular interest to the public 
if the topic can wait until a subsequent meeting. See OML 2020-172; OML 2019-131; OML 
2018-119.  
 
 Based on the information before us, we credit the Conservation Director’s explanation 
that re
moval of trees at 12 Lake Avenue was not reasonably anticipated for discussion at the 
December 21 meeting. See OML 2021-67 (explaining that “[a]lthough a chair generally may be 
aware of a particular issue, the Open Meeting Law only requires a meeting notice to contain the 
topics the chair reasonably anticipates discussing at the particular meeting for which the notice is 
posted”). Therefore, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it 
discussed and voted to authorize the removal of trees at 12 Lake Avenue during its December 21 
meeting despite this topic not having been included on the meeting notice.  
   
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Commission or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Michèle Grenier, Conservation Director (via email: MGrenier@GeorgetownMa.gov) 
Kerri McManus, Town Clerk (via email: kmcmanus@georgetownma.gov)  
Kevin Wood (via email: ) 
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 