===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
June 18, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 74 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Antione Fares, Esq. 
Norris, Murray & Peloquin, LLC 
315 Norwood Park South 
Norwood, MA 02062 
afares@nmplabor.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Fares: 
This office received a complaint from Ginny Kremer on February 27, 2020, alleging that 
the Southborough Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on January 17, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated February 6.1 In her complaint, Ms. Kremer 
alleges that the Board has failed to release two sets of unredacted executive session minutes in 
response to her December 16 request made under the Open Meeting Law.2  
 Following our review, we resolve these complaints by informal action in accordance 
with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a) and find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
respond to the request within 10 calendar days. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); OML 2019-125 
(“Under the Open Meeting Law, a public body has 10 calendar days from the date a request is 
received to provide a response.”).3 On December 31, Town Counsel responded to Ms. Kremer’s 
request by email stating that the Board had previously provided redacted versions of the 
requested executive session minutes, on or about August 20, and did not plan to release 
unredacted versions of the minutes. As this response came more than 10 calendar days after the 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2019. 
2 The Division of Open Government may only review violations of the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
To the extent that the December 16 request sought documents besides meeting minutes, w e decline to review any 
allegations related to these other documents as they fall under to the Public Records Law. See OML Declination 1-
25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners).  
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
request was made on December 16, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law with 
respect to the timeliness of its response.  
 The complainant challenges the Board’s assertion that the April 25 and May 7, 2019 
executive session minutes are protected by the attorney-client privilege and exemption (c) of 
M.G.L. c. 4 § 7(26). Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public  
“as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.” 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the 
minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-
client privilege or an exemption to the public records law applies to withhold them, in whole or 
in part, from disclosure. See id. Here, the Board is not relying on the Open Meeting Law as a 
basis for withholding the minutes, but rather has released the minutes subject to redaction 
pursuant to the attorney-client privilege and a Public Records Law exemption.4 Because the 
executive session minutes at issue here are no longer being withheld from the public under the 
Open Meeting Law, we find no violation of that Law in this respect. 
 We make no finding as to whether the Board justifiably asserted the attorney-client 
privilege in this instance. The Open Meeting Law authorizes the Attorney General to investigate 
a complaint alleging a violation of the law and to request documents in the course of that 
investigation, but does not give us the authority to determine whether the Board’s assertion of the 
attorney-client privilege was justified. See OML 2014-22; OML 2013-7. In addition, the 
Attorney General may not require a public body to disclose “any documentary material which 
would be privileged.” G.L. c. 30A, § 24(e). If the complainant disagrees with the Board’s 
determination that these redactions are privileged, she may file an Open Meeting Law complaint 
in Superior Court to challenge the Board’s decision to withhold the minutes, and request that the 
court review the purportedly privileged documents. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(f). 
 We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Chase 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Ginny Kremer, Esq. (via e-mail: ginny@bbhlaw.net) 
 Southborough Board of Selectmen (via e-mail: selectmenoffice@southboroughma.com) 
 
 
 
4 If the complainant seeks to challenge the Board’s use of Public Records Law exemptions, she must direct such a 
request to the Secretary of State’s Public Records Division. 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 