===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKXEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL xt . , . www.mass.gov/ago 
November 6, 2014 
OML 2014-124 
Bonnie Conner, Chair 
Hinsdale Select Board 
39 South St. 
Hinsdale, MA 01235 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Conner: 
This office received a complaint filed by Bruce Stetson, dated September 11, alleging 
that the Hinsdale Select Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board failed to properly notice a March 19 
executive session, and that the Board failed to provide Mr. Stetson with notice of executive 
sessions held on March 19, March 26, and April 2. Additionally, the complaint alleges that the 
Board failed to notify the public prior to entering each of the executive sessions whether it would 
return to open session at their conclusion. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on 
or about August 6, and the Board responded by letter dated August 25. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by meeting 
in executive session on March 26 without providing Mr. Stetson with proper written notice 48 
hours before the meeting. With respect to the allegations that the Board failed to notify the 
public regarding whether it would return to open session prior to entering the three executive 
sessions, we find the allegations to be untimely and decline to review them.2 We find the 
remaining allegations to be without merit. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
complaint filed with the Board, the Board's response, and the complaint filed with our office. 
We also reviewed the executive session minutes of the Board's March 19, March 26, and April 2 
meetings. Finally, we spoke with Mr. Stetson by telephone on September 25. 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
2 Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the 
alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(1). If the alleged violation could not have been known at 
the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the date on which the 
alleged violation could reasonably have been discovered. 940 CMR 29.05(3). The complaint was filed with the 
Board on August 6, more than four months after the most recent alleged violation. Therefore, we decline to review 
these allegations. We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that prior to entering into executive 
session, "the chair shall publicly announce whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the 
executive session." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(4). 
3 The executive session minutes were publicly released by the Board on July 16. See OML 2014-106. Open 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On March 13, the Board posted notice for a March 19 
meeting. The notice included one topic: "Executive Session...to discuss discipline or dismissal, 
or complaints or charges against an employee. In accordance to MGL C. 30A, s21(a)(1) & MGL 
C. 41, S.96b."4 The same day, the Board sent Mr. Stetson, an employee of the Town, a letter 
notifying him of the executive session and informing him that he had the right to be present. On 
March 15, Mr. Stetson responded with a letter to the Board demanding that the Board provide 
him, in writing and prior to the executive session, with the reasons for the executive session, any 
complaints and/or charges against him, and any and all questions that the Board anticipated 
asking him in the executive session. The Board did not acquiesce to this request. 
During its March 19 meeting, the Board voted to enter into executive session, pursuant to 
"G.L. c. 41, § 96" and "G.L. c. 30A, § 21," to "discuss discipline or dismissal or charges brought 
against an employee." Once in executive session, the Chair noted that Mr. Stetson decided not to 
attend. The Board discussed whether the executive session was proper given that the notice for 
the executive session, and the motion to enter into executive session, cited G.L. c. 41, § 96, 
which appeared to be unrelated to Mr. Stetson. The Board then discussed in detail an incident 
involving Mr. Stetson. The Board did not take any action at the meeting. 
The Board posted notice for a March 26 meeting.5 The notice included a topic for an 
executive session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The Board also sent Mr. Stetson a letter dated 
March 19. The letter read, "The Select Board requests your presence at the next Select Board 
Meeting on Wednesday, March 26, 2014. The meeting will start at 6:00 PM. If you unable to 
attend, please notify the Select Board as soon as possible at the number listed above." However, 
according to the return receipt on the certified mail slip, Mr. Stetson did not receive this letter 
until March 27. On the morning of March 26, Kerri Striebel, the Board's Assistant, emailed 
Chair Conner and Select Board member William Goddard, writing that "[t]he mail has already 
come in and the green slip is not in there to confirm that Stetson got his mail notice about the 
meeting at 6 pm today." Mr. Stetson confirmed with our office that he was not aware until 
March 27 that the Board intended to discuss his employment during the executive session 
scheduled for March 26. 
During the March 26 executive session, the Board stated that Mr. Stetson decided not to 
attend. The Board then discussed action against Mr. Stetson. Toward the end of the discussion, 
the Board inquired as to whether Mr. Stetson had received notice of the meeting. Ms. Striebel, 
explained that she did not receive the return receipt card, therefore it was not clear that Mr. 
Stetson had received the notice of the meeting. She stated that she had notified the Board prior 
to the meeting that the return receipt had not been received. The Board decided not to take 
action at the meeting, but to hold an additional meeting, and to have a notice hand-delivered to 
Mr. Stetson. 
The Board sent Mr. Stetson a letter, dated March 26, requesting his presence at an 
Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 G.L. c. 41, § 96 is unrelated to any issue involving Mr. Stetson, and was inadvertently left on the notice from a 
prior executive session. 
5 The date this notice was posted is unclear. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
executive session on April 2 and informing him of his rights under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). Mr. 
Stetson received the letter on March 27. Mr. Stetson responded with a letter to the Board on 
March 28, once again demanding that the Board provide him, in writing and prior to the 
executive session, with the reasons for the executive session, any complaints and/or charges 
against him, and any and all questions that the Board anticipated asking him in the executive 
session. The Board did not reply to the letter. 
On April 2, the Board voted to enter into executive session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(1). Mr. Stetson did not attend the meeting. During the meeting, the Board voted 
unanimously to dismiss Mr. Stetson from his employment with the Town. The Board then 
discussed advertising for Mr. Stetson's replacement and discussed the process and schedule for 
hiring a replacement. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law states that public bodies may meet in executive session for any 
of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One such purpose is "to discuss the 
discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, 
staff member or individual." G.L. c. BOA, § 21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). The law requires that the 
public body provide the individual who will be discussed during a Purpose 1 executive session 
with written notification at least 48 hours in advance. Id The law also affords the individual 
who is the subject of the executive session a series of rights, including the right to request that 
the session be open; the right to be present; the right to have counsel or a representative present 
to advise the individual who is the subject of the executive session; the right to speak; and the 
right to cause an independent recording or transcription to be made at the individual's expense. 
G.L. c 30A, §§ 21(a)(l)(i-iv). 
The Board provided Mr. Stetson with proper written notice for its March 19 and April 2 
meetings. It failed to provide him with such notice for its March 26 meeting. The Board sent 
Mr. Stetson a notice prior to its March 26 executive session. However, Mr. Stetson did not 
receive the notice until March 27. Additionally, the notice the Board sent to Mr. Stetson did not 
make it clear that the Board intended to meet in executive session under Purpose 1 to discuss Mr. 
Stetson, it merely request his presence at a meeting. To the Board's credit, it tabled any further 
action once it learned that Mr. Stetson may not have received notice of the meeting, and directed 
that a notice be hand-delivered to Mr. Stetson for a subsequent executive session. Furthermore, 
in response to this complaint the Board released the March 26 executive session minutes. Thus, 
while we find that this executive session did not comply with the law, we order no additional 
relief 
With respect to Mr. Stetson's allegations that the Board's March 19 and April 2 executive 
sessions and notices to him were improper because the Board did not provide certain requested 
information, we find no violation of the law. The Board sent Mr. Stetson notices for both 
executive sessions at least 48 hours in advance. In response to each notice, Mr. Stetson 
requested certain information about the charges against him. The Board did not respond to either 
request for further information, and Mr. Stetson chose not to attend the March 19 and April 2 
meetings. The Open Meeting Law does not require the Board to provide Mr. Stetson with the 
charges against him prior to its executive session, only that he be given written notice of the 
3 
===PAGE 4===
meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1).6 Because Mr. Stetson was given 48 hours' written notice of 
the meeting, the Board's March 19 and April 2 executive sessions were proper. In his complaint, 
Mr. Stetson requests that the Board's actions be nullified and that his employment with the Town 
be reinstated. Because we find that the Board properly noticed its April 2 executive session, we 
do not nullify the Board's vote taken on that date to terminate Mr. Stetson's employment with 
the Town.7 
Finally, in his complaint, Mr. Stetson also alleges that the March 19 meeting notice was 
improper because it cited an improper purpose for executive session, G.L. c. 41, § 96, which was 
unrelated to any issues the Board discussed in executive session. While the Board mistakenly 
cited an unrelated statute because it had not removed it from the notice template from a prior, 
unrelated executive session, it also cited the appropriate executive session purpose, G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a)(1). Therefore, we find that the notice for the executive session was valid. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by meeting in executive session 
on March 26 without providing Mr. Stetson with proper written notice 48 hours before the 
meeting. We do not find that the Board violated the law in the other ways alleged. We order the 
Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution the Board 
that a similar future violation may be considered evidence of an intentional violation of the Law. 
With the issuance of this determination, we now consider this matter closed. Please 
contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
y^jonathan Sclarsic 
' Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Bruce Stetson 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
6 We take no position on whether any other law required the Board to provide Mr. Stetson with the charges against 
him prior to the executive session. 
7 Although not raised in the initial complaint, we note that the Board should not have discussed advertising for Mr. 
Stetson's replacement nor discussed the process and schedule for hiring a replacement during its April 2 executive 
session. These types of hiring discussions must take place in open session. See OML 2014-43. 
4 