===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL;(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 1, 2016 
OML 2016 - 117 
Joseph I. Macy, Corporation Counsel 
City of Fall River 
1 Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Macy: 
This office received a complaint from CJ Ferry, dated March 30, alleging that the Fall 
River City Council (the "Council") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The 
complaint was originally filed with the Council on February 16, and the Council responded by 
letter dated March 10.2 In his complaint, Mr. Ferry alleges that the Council violated the Open 
Meeting Law when a quorum of the Council was present at a meeting of the Council's 
Subcommittee on Ordinances and Legislation (the "Subcommittee") and deliberated, even 
though the meeting was not noticed as a joint meeting. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Council's response, and the request for 
further review filed with our office. We also reviewed a video recording of a Subcommittee 
meeting held on February 16.3 
We find the facts as follows. The Council is a nine-member public body, thus five 
members constitute a quorum. At all times relevant to this complaint, five Councilors—Cliff 
Ponte, Joseph Camara, Pam Laliberte-Lebeau, Stephen Long, and Linda Pereira—were the sole 
members of the Subcommittee. On February 10, the Subcommittee posted notice of a meeting to 
be held on February 16. The notice did not state that the meeting would be a joint meeting 
between the Subcommittee and the Council. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 We note that the complainant filed an amended complaint on February 22, adding more detail. 
3 See http://vod.frgtv.us/video/l 55631765. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
The Subcommittee held the February 16 meeting as planned in the Council chambers 
with four Subcommittee members present. The Subcommittee members sat at a rectangular table 
in the middle of the room in front of the dais where the Councilors regularly sit. During this 
meeting, four other Councilors arrived, sitting in their regular seats at the Council's dais, 
bringing the total present to eight Councilors. During the meeting. Councilors Richard 
Cabeceiras, Shawn Cadime, Raymond Mitchell, and Steven Camara were recognized to speak. 
These Councilors, not members of the Subcommittee, addressed the Subcommittee from the 
Council dais and asked questions. Ultimately, the Subcommittee voted to refer one issue to the 
Council for full discussion; the Councilors present did not comment on this vote. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in limited circumstances, "all meetings of a 
public body shall be open to the public." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). Except in an emergency, "a 
public body shall post notice of ever meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A subcommittee of a public body 
is itself a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Open Meeting 
Law defines a "meeting" as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within 
the body's jurisdiction," however this definition does not include the "attendance by a quorum of 
a public body at a meeting of another public body that has complied with the notice requirements 
of the open meeting law, so long as the visiting members communicate only by open 
participation in the meeting on those matters under discussion by the host body and do not 
deliberate." Id. "Deliberation" is defined, in relevant part, as "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. 
The complaint alleges that the presence of five Councilors—a quorum of the Council— 
on the Subcommittee is a per se violation of the Open Meeting Law. The complaint alleges that 
every Subcommittee meeting is therefore a meeting at which a quorum of the Council is present. 
This argument is unavailing. We have previously concluded that a quorum of a public body may 
sit on its subcommittee without having to post a separate meeting notice, provided that the 
discussion is limited to matters within the jurisdiction of the subcommittee. See OML 2013-155, 
Fn. 2.4 Because we discern from the recording of the February 16 meeting no discussion of 
topics beyond the Subcommittee's jurisdiction, we find no violation with respect to this 
allegation. 
The complaint also alleges that the Councilors who were not members of the 
Subcommittee violated the law when they deliberated during the Subcommittee's February 16 
meeting. Members of a parent public body may attend the meeting of a subcommittee provided 
there is no deliberation. See OML 2013-38. In considering whether members of the parent 
public body have deliberated during a subcommittee meeting, we look for indicia such as 
whether the parent public body members were seated with the general public and whether they 
participated by open participation to conclude that no improper deliberation occurred. Id. Here, 
Councilors Cabeceiras, Cadime, Mitchell, and Camara sat in their seats at the Council dais. 
When they were recognized to speak, it was done with the honorific "Councilor." Based on this, 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.inass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
a reasonable member of the public watching the recording of the meeting would have believed 
they were watching a joint meeting of the Council and the Subcommittee. We therefore find that 
the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating during the February 16 meeting 
without posting notice. 
While not raised in the complaint, we note that the Council did not respond to respond to 
the complaint within the time frame required by law. Unless an extension of time has been 
granted, a public body must, within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law 
complaint, send a copy of the complaint to the Attorney General's Office and notify the Attorney 
GeneraLs Office of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 19.05(5), (6). 
Here, the complaint was filed with the Council on February 16. The Board did not request an 
extension, and responded by letter dated March 10. We take this opportunity to remind the 
Board of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We order the Council's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we 
caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this detennination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: CJ Ferry 
Fall River City Council 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(e). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 