===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 12,2016 
OML 2016-52 
Thomas Mullen, Esq. 
40 Salem Street, Building 2, Suite 12 
Lynnfield, MA 01940 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Mullen: 
This office received a complaint from Daniel Lieber on January 25, 2016, alleging 
that the Wakefield Lake Quannapowitt Committee (the Committee) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on or about December 15, 2015, and you responded, on behalf of the 
Committee, to the complaint by letter dated January 5, 2016. The complaint alleges that, 
following a discussion during the Committee's December 7, 2015 meeting, the Committee 
voted and deliberated on a topic outside of a meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by deliberating outside of a meeting. In reaching our decision, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the Committee's response, and the complaint filed with our office, requesting 
further review. We also reviewed relevant email correspondence sent between or among 
the Board. Finally, we spoke with Chair Michael Collins on February 18, 2016, 
We find the facts as follows. In 2014, the Wakefield Board of Selectmen (the 
Board) formed the 16-member Committee to study water quality issues of Lake 
Quannapowitt (the Lake). Specifically, the Committee studied various solutions to control 
the Lake's blue-green algae problem, with the ultimate purpose of submitting a 
recommendation to the Board. In the fall 2015, Chair Collins created a draft voting grid 
listing the various options that the Committee had considered since its inception and the 
names of each Committee member. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
Between October 30, 2015 and December 7, 2015, Chair Collins sent several 
emails to the Committee, attaching the grid and asking for individual feedback from 
members. On November 5, 2015, Chair Collins shared his completed grid with the rest of 
the Committee and asked "if anyone completes theirs please forward as I would like to 
share with Committee." 
The Committee planned to discuss the grid at its December 7, 2015 meeting. In 
preparation, Chair Collins sent another version of the grid to the Committee on December 
3, 2015 asking them to "let me [know] now if any further options/approaches should be 
added." The grid contained a key at the bottom of the page, indicating "Y" for a "Yes vote 
to further pursue option;" an "N" for a "No vote for no further consideration"; an "O" to 
mean "Consider further pursuing if cost-effective"; and "E" for "Potential emerging 
technology for future use." 
During its December 7, 2015 meeting, Chair Collins handed out to the Committee 
the latest version of this draft grid. Chair Collins asked each Committee member to take 
the sheet home, vote on each approach, and return the sheet to Chair Collins for 
compilation before the next meeting. The next day. Chair Collins emailed this grid to the 
Committee, offering them the option to submit their completed form back to him 
electronically to "compile and share with [Committee member] Bill Conley" and create a 
summary of the results to "re-send to each of you." 
All 13 Committee members sent their voting sheets to Chair Collins prior to the 
Committee's next meeting, held on December 28, 2015. Three members handed their 
forms back to Chair Collins at the December 7, 2015 meeting; three members individually 
dropped off their forms at Chair Collins' office; and seven members emailed their forms 
back to him. On December 9, 2015, Chair Collins followed up with an email to seven 
Committee members, attaching the voting sheet. Chair Collins stated, "Please review and 
vote in your column and send back to me [sic] the others on the committee have already 
submitted their votes."1 Of the seven members who emailed their forms, only one 
member, Dennis Cloherty, included the Committee in his response. In a December 15, 
2015 email to the Committee, Mr. Cloherty stated, "If I had a chance to vote I would vote 
for "restore natural high water mark and unblock feeder streams." This email prompted an 
exchange between Mr. Cloherty, Mr. Conley, and Chair Collins, copied to the rest of the 
Committee, concerning Mr, Cloherty's opinion on the voting options. 
This complaint was filed by email with Chair Collins later that evening. Upon 
receiving this complaint, Chair Collins stopped the voting process. He compiled the 
results into a summary sheet, which he has shared only with Mr. Conley, and plans to 
discuss the completed grid sheets and the composite at a future meeting. Chair Collins 
sent an email to the Committee on December 22, 2015, attaching this complaint and a 
' Chair Collins sent another email to some of those same Committee members the next day, reiterating his 
request. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
revised agenda to notify them of a planned discussion about the complaint during its 
meeting of December 28, 2015. In his email, Chair Collins stated, 
"Per review of the complaint and the Open Meeting Law the only acceptable form 
of voting for our selection of the recommended approach(s) to Lake Quannapowitt 
is for members to be asked and respond to their individual vote on each approach in 
view of the Committee and any public who should attend. Thus so far we do not 
have a valid form of voting performed. No external completing/signing/emailing, 
etc., it must be done at a convened public meeting. Next Monday if we have a 
quorum.. .hope to discuss if we should have further review of the alternatives and 
vote at a later convened Committee meeting." (emphasis included) 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly 
noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy 
surrounding deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. 
School Committee of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A "meeting" is defined, in 
relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. BOA, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or 
written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among 
a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, 
however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, 
scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of 
reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a 
member is expressed." IdL (emphasis added) 
The complainant challenges the process by which the Committee planned to 
formulate its recommendation to the Board of the best solution to control the Lake's blue-
green algae problem. With the exception of a single email sent by Chair Collins to the 
Committee on November 3, 2015, which attached the grid for discussion at a meeting and 
did not otherwise include Chair Collins' opinion, every other email we reviewed between 
Chair Collins and the rest of the Committee between October and December 2015 
concerning the grid and voting process constituted improper deliberation. The Open 
Meeting Law requires communication between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction to take place during a meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§18. The Law does afford a limited exception to the definition of "deliberation" for the 
distribution of certain administrative documents, such as a meeting agenda or scheduling 
in formation, provided that no opinion of a public body member is expressed. Id. (emphasis 
added). This exception applies only if the public body member sending the document does 
not otherwise include an opinion. See OML 2016-31. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
First, Chair Collins' emails to his fellow Committee members included both his 
opinions and proposals for the draft grid and the voting process. Chair Collins invited 
further deliberation by asking members to submit revisions for the grid to him for 
compilation and re-distribution to the Committee. While submitting individual revisions to 
Chair Collins for compilation and discussion at an upcoming meeting would have been 
appropriate, sharing those revisions with the rest of the Committee outside of a meeting is 
not. See OML 2013-29. In addition, Chair Collins expressed his opinion to the 
Committee by sharing his own completed grid sheet ("i.e., his vote) with the Committee in 
his November 5, 2015 email. See OML 2013-29 (expression of an opinion on matters 
within the body's jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no 
other public body member responds). In sum, Chair Collins' emails contained his opinion 
on the draft grid and the voting process — topics squarely within the Committee's authority 
— and, therefore, should have been reserved for discussion at a meeting. 
Second, Mr. Cloherty, Mr. Conley, and Chair Collins should not have engaged in 
an email exchange on December 15, 2015 that included the rest of the Committee 
concerning Mr. Cloherty's opinion on the voting options and process. Third, Chair 
Collins' email to the Committee about this complaint went beyond the mere distribution of 
a document to be discussed at a meeting, which alone would have been permissible, but 
also included his thoughts on the Committee's actions that triggered the complaint, a topic 
he should have saved for the upcoming meeting. See OML 2013-136. 
Finally, the voting process itself, as originally planned by the Committee, would 
have violated the Open Meeting Law as it would have constituted an improper polling of 
the Committee outside of a meeting. See OML 2013-75; OML 2013-76; see also G.L. 
c. 30A, § 22(b) ("No vote taken at an open session shall be by secret ballot."). We 
commend the Committee, however, for halting the process upon the filing of this 
complaint. As a consequence, only two of the Committee members. Chair Collins and Mr. 
Cloherty, shared their individual completed grids with the entire Committee outside of an 
email. While these two emails constituted improper deliberation because they shared their 
opinion with the rest of the Committee, see above, we find no violation in the attempted 
voting process itself. We are confident that the Committee understands its missteps as it 
moves forward with this process in the future. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating by 
electronic mail. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, 
and caution that future similar conduct may be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
Law. Additionally, we order the Committee to disclose the contents of the emails at issue 
during a properly posted meeting. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
4 
===PAGE 5===
Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if 
you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Daniel Lieber 
Wakefield Lake Quannapowitt Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
5 