===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
May 7, 2013 
OML 2013 — 57 
James Toomey, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
Crown Colony Plaza 
300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410 
Quincy, MA 02169 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Toomey: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Ronan of The Patriot Ledger, dated 
October 9, 2012, alleging that the Scituate Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or 
about September 6, 2012, and the Board responded to the original complaint by letter dated 
October 3, 2012. In his complaint, Mr. Ronan alleges that during its September 4, 2012 
executive session, the Board discussed a draft letter to state representatives and proposed 
legislation that was not appropriate for executive session. 
We reviewed the September 6, 2012 complaint; your October 3, 2012 response on behalf 
of the Board; the October 9, 2012 complaint filed with our office, requesting further review; and 
the notices for and the open and executive session minutes from the August 7 and September 4, 
2012 meetings. We also listened to portions of the recordings from both open session meetings. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
during its September 4, 2012 executive session. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. Because the 
Board has not released the executive session minutes, we do not recount their content in full. 
Maryanne Lewis, a member of the Scituate Housing Authority (the "Authority"), refused 
to sign three certification forms required by the Department of Housing and Community 
Development ("DHCD") because she disagreed with the language requiring her to certify certain 
financial information "under the pains and penalties of perjury." On February 3, 2012, the 
DHCD notified the Authority that due to the certifications' defects, they had frozen money 
allocated for the maintenance of tenants' apartments. The Authority subsequently attempted to 
0 
===PAGE 2===
resolve the issue with both Ms. Lewis and the DHCD, but was unsuccessful. On July 12, 2012, 
Patricia Butler, Chair of the Authority, sent a written request to the Board to conduct a hearing 
regarding complaints against a member of the Authority, and to remove said member from the 
Authority. On July 19, 2012, Chairman Joseph Norton sent a letter to Ms. Lewis notifying her of 
a hearing scheduled for August 7, 2012, to be held in executive session pursuant to Purpose 1. 
During its August 7, 2012 meeting, the Board convened in executive session and 
conducted a hearing pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 121B, § 6.1  The Board 
heard testimony regarding Ms. Lewis' refusal to sign the three certification forms, as required by 
the DHCD. The Board then discussed its various options in resolving the complaint against Ms. 
Lewis. The Board ultimately approved a motion to temporarily suspend Ms. Lewis from the 
Authority, which was then announced in open session. In the days that followed this vote, 
DHCD informed Attorney Toomey that a temporary suspension was not acceptable, thus the 
Board decided to reconvene the hearing to discuss the issue further. 
On August 16, 2012, Chairman Norton sent a certified letter to Ms. Lewis notifying her 
that that the Board would continue the hearing under executive session Purpose 1 on August 21, 
2012, though the hearing was ultimately postponed, at Ms. Lewis' request, until September 4, 
2012. 2  Ms. Lewis indicated to Attorney Toomey that she would not attend the meeting, 
however. The meeting notice, filed with the clerk on August 29, 2012, listed among the items to 
be discussed the following topic: "Executive Session: To Discuss the Discipline or Dismissal of 
or Complaints or Charges Brought Against a Public Officer, Employee, Staff Member or 
Individual on the Scituate Housing Authority." On September 4, 2012, the Board convened in 
open session. Before entering into executive session, Chairman Norton announced that the 
Board would enter executive session "to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or 
charges brought against a public officer, employee, staff member or individual on the Scituate 
Housing Authority" and the Board would then reconvene in open session. The Board approved a 
roll call vote to enter into executive session. 
During the executive session, Attorney Toomey explained that he had engaged in 
discussions with Ms. Lewis for several days before arriving at a possible resolution. Attorney 
Toomey distributed a draft resignation letter from Ms. Lewis indicating that she would resign 
from the Authority contingent upon the Board's agreement to file legislation "prohibiting DHCD 
from requiring Housing Authority Board members from certifying 'under the pains and penalties 
of perjury' financials and budgets." Attorney Toomey also distributed a draft letter from the 
Board to state representatives and a proposed legislative bill for the Board's consideration. 
Before reconvening in open session, the Board approved a motion that "subject to receipt of a 
resignation from Maryanne Lewis, the Board of Selectmen will (a) send the letter to the Town's 
legislative delegation, (b) rescind the temporary suspension of Ms. Lewis, and (c) terminate this 
hearing on receipt of the letter of resignation by the Town Clerk." According to the meeting 
minutes, upon reconvening in open session, Chairman Norton stated, "[a] tentative resolution has 
I  Pursuant to G.L. c. 121B, § 6, the Board of Selectmen "may make or receive written charges against, and...may 
accept the resignation of, any member of a housing authority... appointed or elected by such city or town or may, 
after hearing, remove any such member because of inefficiency, neglect of duty or misconduct in office..." 
2  In an August 21, 2012 email from Ms. Lewis to Kimberly Donovan, the Board's Executive Assistant, she stated 
that she was unable to attend that evening's meeting and requested "that the matter be continued to a mutually 
convenient date and time." 
2 
===PAGE 3===
been reached between Maryanne Lewis, Housing Authority member, and the Board of 
Selectmen. The subject of the resolution is being finalized and the Selectmen will attempt to 
have a public statement on this matter for the media, and otherwise, as soon as possible." 
On September 6, 2012, Maryanne Lewis submitted her letter of resignation from the 
Authority, and Chairman Norton mailed the letters with the proposed bill to the Town's 
legislative delegation. That same day, Chairman Norton issued a public statement regarding the 
negotiated resolution. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, provided 
that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for the executive 
session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3). 
One permissible reason for executive session is Purpose 1, "[t]o discuss the reputation, 
character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an 
individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, 
a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The individual 
to be discussed in such an executive session must be notified in writing by the public body at 
least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session. Id. The individual must also be afforded 
the right to be present during deliberations that involve that individual, the right to speak on his 
or her own behalf, the right to have counsel present to advise but not participate, and the right to 
have an independent record of the meeting made at the individual's own expense. Id. 
The Board followed the requisite procedures for entering executive session pursuant to 
Purpose 1, including providing Ms. Lewis with the appropriate 48 hour written notice.3  The 
Board's discussion generally fit within the parameters of executive session Purpose 1. 4  The 
Board's discussion surrounding Ms. Lewis' proposed resignation was appropriate under 
executive session Purpose 1, as it related to resolving a complaint against a public officer. 
Attorney Toomey's proposal to the Board regarding the negotiated resolution to the complaint 
included the Board's review of a draft letter and legislation proposed in return for Ms. Lewis' 
resignation. The Board did not engage in a discussion regarding the language of the proposed 
legislation, or any other topic that deviated from the stated purpose of the executive session. 
Accordingly, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law during its September 4, 2012 
executive session. See OML 2012-43. Moreover, the Board promptly released the details of the 
negotiated settlement to the public two days later upon the submission of Ms. Lewis' resignation 
letter. 
3  The Board provided Ms. Lewis with the notice required by Purpose 1 in advance of the scheduled August 21, 2012 
meeting, however that meeting was postponed. While we are satisfied that Ms. Lewis knew about the September 4, 
2012 meeting, the Board should have sent her another notice, pursuant to Purpose 1, prior to the new hearing date. 
4  At one point, Chair Norton agreed with a comment by Town Administrator Patricia Vinchesi concerning recent 
research on the certification requirement. We do not find that there was any substantive discussion of the issue by 
the public body, however. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
During its December 4, 2012 meeting, the Board voted to continue to withhold its August 
7 and September 4, 2012 executive session minutes from public release. Executive session 
minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public "as long as publication may defeat the 
lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). When the 
purpose for a valid executive session has been served, however, the minutes and any documents 
or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or an 
exemption to the public records law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, from 
disclosure. See id. Because Chairman Norton issued a statement to the public on September 6, 
2012 describing the settlement between the Board and Ms. Lewis and providing Ms. Lewis' 
resignation letter and the Board's letter to the Legislative delegation, which were both filed with 
the Town Clerk on that same day, the purpose for entering executive session to discuss the 
complaint against Ms. Lewis concluded at that time. See  OML 2011-18. Accordingly, the 
Board should now review and publicly release those minutes and any documents or exhibits used 
at the executive session, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public 
Records Law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, from disclosure.5  See  G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(f). 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this 
letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Patrick Ronan, The Patriot Ledger 
Scituate Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
5 
 We note that while the Board attached a copy of the documents used during the meeting to its meeting minutes, the 
minutes do not include "a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). We 
remind the Board that such a list is an independent requirement of the Law. Id. 
4 