===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATToiusrEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.govlago 
March 20, 2012 
OML 2012 - 22 
Fred E. Turkington, Jr. 
Town Administrator 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Turkington: 
This office received a complaint from Ms. Linda Segal, dated July 20, 2011, alleging 
violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by the Wayland Public Safety 
Building Advisory Committee ("PSBAC" or the "Committee"). Specifically, the complaint 
alleges that the PSBAC violated the Open Meeting Law when it failed to post notice of its 
meeting held in the Wayland Town Building on April 28, 2011, at which time the PSBAC 
appeared as an applicant before the Wayland Historic District Commission (HDC) for a 
Certificate of Appropriateness. The complaint was originally filed with the PSBAC on May 27, 
2011. The PBSAC responded to the complaint by letter dated June 21, 2011. 
In making our determination, we reviewed the May 27, 2011 complaint to the 
Committee, the June 21, 2011 letter sent by the Committee in response to the complaint, and the 
minutes of the April 28, 2011 meeting. We also reviewed the PSBAC's Charge and the HDC's 
Rules and Regulations. Finally, we reviewed a transcript of the April 28, 2011 HDC meeting 
provided by the complainant. Following our review, we find that the PSBAC violated the Open 
Meeting Law. We find the April 28, 2011 gathering included deliberation by a quorum of the 
PSBAC on a matter within its jurisdiction, and therefore qualified as a meeting. Accordingly, 
the PSBAC should have posted notice for this meeting.' 
FACTS 
1  We acknowledge your June 14, 2011 request for an advisory opinion on this matter. Where there is an Open 
Meeting Law complaint pending, we will not issue an advisory opinion arising from the same set of facts. 
1 
0 
===PAGE 2===
On April 28, 2011, the PSBAC appeared before the HDC during a properly noticed 
meeting of the HDC. The PSBAC appeared in the role of applicants for a Certificate of 
Appropriateness for alterations to a structure at 38 Cochituate Road in Wayland. The PSBAC's 
application sought approval for a small addition to the building that would allow utilities to be 
moved out of a basement prone to water damage, and that required the waste disposal dumpster 
pad be moved and enclosed. The HDC has the authority to grant a Certificate of 
Appropriateness for proposed changes to buildings within its jurisdiction. PSBAC members 
Kevin Crowley, Doug Goddard and Brad Carver attended the HDC meeting, along with non-
voting ex officio members Fred Turkington and John Moynihan. 
The PSBAC has three voting members, therefore a quorum of the PSBAC was present at 
the meeting. According to the PSBAC's June 21, 2011 letter, all five PSBAC members were 
seated together before the HDC to present its application. All five members introduced 
themselves to the HDC. According to the transcript of the meeting provided by the complainant, 
at least three members of the PSBAC spoke during the discussion with the HDC 
According to the minutes of the HDC's April 28, 2011 meeting, the 38 Cochituate Road 
matter was the first item of business discussed at the meeting. During the meeting, Mr. 
Moynihan "explained that the dumpster area [was] not shown on the submitted drawings" and, 
while not visible to one road, would be visible to a neighbor. The notes then reflect that there 
"was discussion about making the fencing around the new dumpster location reflect the fences in 
the [Historical District] across Route 20." Meaghan Winokur, a member of the HDC present for 
the meeting, circulated her phone showing a picture of the fence located at 18 Winthrop Road.2  
The record then states that "there was agreement that the enclosure fence should replicate the 
wooden fence at 18 Winthrop Road; and it should be painted the same color as the PSB [Public 
Safety Building]. The fence would have 3 sides, and be connected to the generator building." 
Then, the minutes note, "a second application would include fence and bollards." The PSBAC 
and the HDC also discussed a correction to be made to the signature line of the application to 
accurately identify the owner of the property. 
Chris Hagger, a member of the HDC, then moved that the hearing be closed and the 
application be accepted with amendments, including an amendment regarding the fence. Mr. 
Hagger, "made a motion to accept the application as amended," which was seconded and 
approved unanimously. 
2 We caution public bodies that distributing an image on a cellphone during a meeting may trigger requirements 
under the Open Meeting Law that the image be listed in the minutes as an exhibit used by the public body, and that 
the image be retained and made available as a public record. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 22(a),(d). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of any meeting at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). For meetings of a local public body, "notice 
shall be filed with the municipal clerk and posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public 
at all hours in or on the municipal building in which the clerk's office is located," unless the 
municipality has adopted an alternative method for posting notices, such as posting to a website. 
Id. at § 20(c); 940 CMR 29.03. 
A "meeting" is defined as "deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter 
within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. However, "meeting' shall not include... 
attendance by a quorum of a public body at a meeting of another public body that has complied 
with the notice requirements of the open meeting law, so long as the visiting members 
communicate only by open participation in the meeting on those matters under discussion by the 
host body and do not deliberate..." Id. For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, "deliberation" is 
defined, in part, as "an oral or written communication though any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id. A "quorum" is defined as "a simple majority of the members of the public 
body." Id. 
The HDC, according to its Rules and Regulations, Section IV.A.1, reviews changes made 
to "exterior architectural features which are portions of the exterior of a building or structure, 
open to view from a public street, public way, public park or public body of water, including but 
not limited to the architectural style and general arrangement and setting, the kind, color and 
texture of exterior building materials, the color of paint or other materials applied to exterior 
surfaces and the type and style of windows, doors, lights, signs (excluding real estate signs) and 
other appurtenant exterior fixtures." Under IV.A.1.b, a "structure" includes a "fence." 
The PSBAC is a public body charged with advising "the Board of Selectmen, other town 
boards and committees, the Town Administrator and the Public Buildings Director on all issues 
related to the repair and restoration of the Public Safety Building including the structural 
integrity of the building, restoration of the basement for dry storage; relocation of heating, 
ventilation and cooling systems and telecommunications systems; and restoration of elevator 
access." 
The PSBAC argues that the HDC has sole jurisdiction over the matters discussed at the 
April 28, 2011 meeting, therefore, even if the PSBAC did communicate between and among a 
quorum of its members during that meeting, it did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to post notice of the meeting. The PSBAC further contends that any discussion was "conducted 
as open participation" and therefore was specifically exempt from statutory the definition of 
meeting found at G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
We disagree, and find that the PSBAC's discussions during the meeting of the HDC 
constituted a meeting of the PSBAC, one which required the PSBAC to notify the public 48 
hours in advance. A quorum of the PSBAC was present at the meeting of the HDC, and the 
quorum engaged in deliberation because the discussion of the enclosure for the waste disposal 
dumpster pad fell within the Charge of the PSBAC. Committee members were not merely taking 
part in "open participation," rather members of the HDC and the PSBAC together discussed the 
relevant application and decided how some incomplete details on the application should be filled 
out in order to move the process forward. The style of fence that would be installed was debated 
by the HDC and PSBAC, and an image of how it should be styled was circulated to members of 
the PSBAC and HDC, resulting in an agreement. The PSBAC quorum therefore communicated 
about a topic of public business within its jurisdiction, constituting a deliberation. 
We acknowledge that the PSBAC took steps to act transparently by participating in a 
public meeting. For the future, if the PSBAC anticipates that its members may deliberate at the 
meeting of another public body, then the PSBAC should post notice and convene a concurrent 
meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the PSBAC violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post notice for its 
April 28, 2011 meeting. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, and offer this letter as guidance for future conduct. We now consider this complaint 
resolved and this matter closed. Please contact me if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
/Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
cc: Linda Segal 
4 