===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
October 14, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 189 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Carolyn M. Murray, Esq. 
KP Law 
cmurray@k-plaw.com 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Murray: 
 
This letter resolves a complaint filed by Jill Mann alleging that the Hubbardston Select 
Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on August 31, 2022,
1 and you responded on behalf of the Board 
by letter dated September 20. We understand the complaint to allege that the minutes of the 
Board’s August 15 executive session meeting are insufficient.
2   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by creating 
insufficiently detailed meeting minutes for its executive session held on August 15. In reaching 
this determination we reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, 
the request for further review, and the minutes of the Board’s August 15 executive session.  
 
FACTS 
 
This matter stems from a complaint that Ms. Mann filed with the Town of Hubbardston 
on August 5 against the Interim Police Chief, a police officer, and the Town Administrator (the 
“Police Complaint”). The Board met in executive session on August 15 to discuss the Police 
Complaint. On August 16, Ms. Mann requested the minutes for the August 15 executive session. 
On August 22, the Board met in executive session and voted to approve the minutes for its 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 Ms. Mann subsequently raised additional allegations regarding additional sets of meeting minutes. As we have 
explained to Ms. Mann, we decline to review allegations that were not raised in an original Open Meeting Law 
complaint filed with the Board. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); OML 2012-92; OML 2013-177; OML 2019-65; OML 
2022-179. Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
August 15 executive session and release them to Ms. Mann. Thereafter, Ms. Mann filed her 
complaint alleging that the minutes of the August 15 executive session are insufficient.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See 
OML 2017-104; OML 2013-64. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should 
contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 
2019-145; OML 2012-106. Although a transcript of the discussions is not required, and the 
minutes need not include every remark or opinion presented, minutes must include a substantive 
summary of the discussion on each topic. See OML 2020-18. Minutes of executive sessions must 
include the same level of detail as is required for open sessions. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 
2020-53. 
 
Ms. Mann’s Open Meeting Law complaint specifically alleges that the minutes of the 
Board’s August 15 executive session are insufficient because “[t]here was no mention as to who 
the [Police Complaint] was filed against or what the nature of the [Police Complaint] was.” The 
Open Meeting Law does not dictate the content of a discussion at a meeting; rather, it requires 
that meeting minutes accurately summarize what was actually discussed. See OML 2015-155 
(explaining that minutes should reflect what was actually discussed at a meeting, not matters that 
were not discussed). Therefore, we review whether the minutes accurately summarize the 
discussions that took place, not whether any particular information was documented in the 
minutes. Moreover, we note that the minutes clearly identify that the Police Complaint was filed 
against Interim Chief of Police Ryan Couture, an Officer Halkola, and the Town Administrator.  
 
After review, we find the minutes to be insufficient. Specifically, we find the minutes 
insufficient where they state “[t]he Select Board discussed the complaint and did not have any 
additional questions about the details,” without summarizing the substance of that discussion. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes include more than a statement that a 
public body held a discussion about a specified topic; the Law requires that the minutes 
summarize the substance of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2020-53; OML 2019-167; 
OML 2018-8. Although we understand that the meeting lasted approximately 12 minutes and so 
any discussion the Board had regarding the Police Complaint may have been brief, the Board 
was still required to summarize the substance of the discussion.  
 
The Board asserts in its response that the information discussed during the August 15 
executive session is exempt from disclosure under G.L. c 41, § 97D, “and therefore, the minutes 
contained a limited discussion to preserve the confidentiality of that information.” We do not 
opine as to whether G.L. c 41, § 97D is applicable to the information discussed during the 
Board’s executive session. Regardless, G.L. c 41, § 97D does not relieve the Board of its 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
obligation under the Open Meeting Law to create and maintain accurate meeting minutes. If the 
Board believes that information contained in its executive session minutes must be withheld 
from the public in accordance with G.L. c 41, § 97D, then it may redact such information 
pursuant to the attorney-client privilege or 1 or more of the exemptions under the Public Records 
Law before releasing the minutes to the public. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f) (“When the purpose for 
which a valid executive session was held has been served, the minutes, preparatory materials and 
documents and exhibits of the session shall be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or 1 
or more of the exemptions under [the Public Records Law] apply to withhold [the] records, or 
any portion thereof, from disclosure.”). The Board may not, however, choose to create 
insufficient meeting minutes as a means to protect information that it believes might be exempt 
from disclosure.  
 
We order the Board, within 30 days of the date of this letter, to amend the minutes of its 
August 15 executive session to accurately summarize its discussion of the Police Complaint. If, 
thereafter, the Board determines that its amended minutes may be released to the public subject 
to redactions, it may make such redactions. If Ms. Mann disputes the validity of any redactions 
made, she may file an appeal with the Supervisor of Records in the Secretary of the 
Commonwealth’s Office.  
 
Next, we also find that the August 15 minutes are insufficient where they do not include a 
list of the documents used at the meeting. The Board concedes that the minutes do not include a 
list of the documents used but asserts that the minutes are sufficient because the documents used 
are referenced within the body of the minutes. The Open Meeting Law specifically requires that 
meeting minutes include a list of all documents and exhibits used by the public body during the 
meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2017-200; OML 2018-70. Therefore, we additionally 
order the Board to amend its August 15 executive session meeting minutes to include a list of the 
documents used at the meeting.  
 
Finally, although not raised in the complaint, we note our concern with the Board’s 
discussion in executive session of a topic—Ms. Mann’s contact with municipal staff and whether 
to pursue a no trespass order—that was not one of the stated reasons for which the executive 
session was convened.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
creating insufficiently detailed minutes for its August 15 executive session meeting. We order 
the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that 
similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. Furthermore, 
we order the Board, within 30 days of the date of this letter, to amend the minutes for its August 
15 executive session meeting to summarize the discussions held regarding the Police Complaint 
and to include a list of documents used at the meeting. 
===PAGE 4===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Jeffrey Williams, Chair, Hubbardston Select Board (via e-mail: 
jwilliams@hubbardstonma.us) 
Jill Mann (via email: )  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
