===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 19, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 166 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
John Foskett, Esq. 
Valerio Dominello & Hillman  
   
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Foskett: 
This office received a complaint from David Matson on July 12, 2021,1 alleging that the 
Andover School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on May 12, and you responded on 
behalf of the Committee by letter dated June 1. The complaint alleges that a portion of the 
Committee’s April 12 meeting was not accessible to the public. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law where 
a portion of its April 12 meeting was inaccessible to the public. In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response, the request for further 
review, the notice for the Committee’s April 12 meeting, an April 12 post made to the 
Committee’s Facebook page, and a video recording of the Committee’s April 12 meeting.2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held 
on April 12. The notice provided the following location information for the meeting: “Virtual 
Meeting Broadcast by AndoverTV: Comcast Channel 99, Verizon Channel 43 or streamed 
@andovertv.org.” The notice also indicated that individuals who wished to participate live via 
video during the public input portion of the meeting could register in advance and would be 
 
1 All dates are in 2021 unless otherwise stated. 
2 A recording of the April 12 meeting can be found at https://andovertv.org/sites/default/files/videos/School-
Committee-1618272537_720web.mp4. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
allowed to access that portion of the meeting via WebEx. The notice included one substantive 
topic: “New Business: Superintendent Selection: Public Input, Deliberation and Vote.”3  
 
The Committee held its meeting on April 12 with all members participating remotely. 
The meeting was broadcast and streamed live by AndoverTV - Andover Community Access & 
Media (“AndoverTV”), the local access television station. The Committee began a discussion 
regarding school superintendent candidates, with each Committee member in turn sharing views 
on the candidates. At some point during the comments of the first two Committee members, the 
livestream and broadcast of the meeting were disrupted due to technical problems. When the 
Committee learned of the disruption, it paused the meeting to allow the technical problems to be 
addressed. Once the technical problems were addressed, the Committee resumed its meeting and 
the next Committee member provided comments about the superintendent candidates. At the end 
of these comments, the Chair explained that she had learned that there again were technical 
problems with the broadcast and livestream of the meeting. The Chair explained that it was her 
understanding that AndoverTV was still recording the meeting and would be able to broadcast it 
later. The Chair expressed her desire to continue with the meeting rather than pausing again. An 
AndoverTV employee joined the meeting and explained that they could not estimate how long it 
might take to fix the technical problems and confirmed that the meeting was still being recorded 
and could be broadcast later as well as posted online. The Committee decided to continue with 
the meeting rather than wait for the technical problems to be resolved. The remaining Committee 
members shared their thoughts on the superintendent candidates and the Committee then voted to 
appoint Doctor Magda Parvey as superintendent, subject to negotiations. Doctor Parvey was later 
hired as superintendent.   
 
As the meeting experienced technical problems, the Committee’s Facebook page was 
updated to inform the public of the technical issues. At one point the Facebook post was updated 
with the following statement: “FURTHER UPDATE: Unfortunately, the technical issues are 
recurring. The recording will be broadcast as soon as they are resolved.” Approximately one 
hour after the meeting ended, a video recording of the meeting was posted as a comment to the 
Committee’s Facebook post. The following day the video recording of the meeting was also 
posted to AndoverTV’s website.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement 
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except 
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”). 
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as 
to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2020-100; 
 
3 Although not raised in the complaint, we note that when a public body anticipates discussing specific individuals 
for appointment or employment, the meeting notice must identify those specific individuals. See OML 2020-80; 
OML 2012-113. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54.4 In order for a meeting to be truly open to the public, the 
meeting venue must be accessible to the public for the duration of the meeting. See OML 2014-
118; OML 2017-172; OML 2018-51. 
 
On March 12, Governor Baker issued an executive order temporarily suspending certain 
provisions of the Open Meeting Law during the state of emergency created by the outbreak of 
the 2019 novel Coronavirus. See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting 
Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”). Relevant here, the Executive 
Order suspended the requirement that meetings be physically accessible to members of the 
public, but only if a public body provides adequate, alternative means for the public to access its 
meetings. The Executive Order provides that “[a]dequate, alternative means of public access 
shall mean measures that provide transparency and permit timely and effective public access to 
the deliberations of the public body . . . [enabling] the public to clearly follow the proceedings of 
the public body while those activities are occurring.” Executive Order at ¶ 1 (emphasis added). 
These measures include “providing public access through telephone, internet or satellite enabled 
audio or video conferencing or any other technology.” Id. Our office has published guidance 
explaining that “‘[a]dequate, alternative means of access’ could include Zoom, a high-capacity 
telephone conference line, Facebook Live, YouTube Live, and broadcasting on live TV, 
including local cable access television.” See Attorney General’s Updated Guidance on Holding 
Meetings During the COVID19 State of Emergency.5  
 
The Executive Order includes an exception to the requirement to provide real-time access 
to a public body’s proceedings, but only in cases where, due to economic hardship and despite 
best efforts, a public body is unable to provide real-time access. Executive Order at ¶ 1. In these 
cases, the Executive Order states that “a public body may instead post on its municipal website a 
full and complete transcript, recording, or other comprehensive record of the proceedings as soon 
as practicable upon the conclusion of the proceedings.” Id. 
 
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law on April 12 when, despite 
learning that technical problems prevented the meeting from being streamed or broadcast live, 
the Committee proceeded with the meeting. When the Committee became aware that, due to 
technical problems, the meeting would not be streamed or broadcast live, it should have 
adjourned the meeting and rescheduled the meeting for a future date. See OML 2021-63; OML 
2021-17; OML 2020-107. The Committee explains that it posted a full recording of the April 12 
meeting on Facebook later that evening and the next day on AndoverTV’s website. Although the 
Executive Order includes an exception to the requirement that a public body provide real-time 
access to its proceedings, this exception only applies where a public body is unable to provide 
real-time access to its meetings due to both economic hardship and despite best efforts. See OML 
2020-107. Here, the Committee has not asserted that it was unable to provide real-time access 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 The Attorney General’s Updated Guidance on Holding Meetings During the COVID-19 State of Emergency, 
updated June 16, 2021, is available here: https://www mass.gov/service-details/updated-guidance-on-
holdingmeetings-during-the-covid-19-state-of-emergency. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
due to economic hardship.6 Although we appreciate the speed with which the Committee and 
AndoverTV worked to post a recording of the meeting online, the public was entitled to real-time 
access to the deliberations. Therefore, we find that the Committee violated the Law when it did 
not provide real-time access to the entirety of its April 12 meeting.  
 
The Complainant requests as a remedy for this violation that the Committee, among other 
things, conduct the deliberations and vote held on April 12 again at an accessible meeting. 
Although we do at times order such remedies, we decline to do so here, where a full video 
recording of the deliberations and vote that took place on April 12 was made available shortly 
after the meeting. We do, however, caution the Committee that similar violations in the future 
may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law and could result in the imposition of 
a civil penalty.    
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
on April 12 when, despite learning that technical problems prevented the meeting from being 
streamed or broadcast live, the Committee proceeded with the meeting. We order the 
Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and note that future 
similar violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
 
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
6 In its response the Committee quotes a portion of The Attorney General’s Updated Guidance on Holding Meetings 
During the COVID-19 State of Emergency which states that “[s]hould the public body encounter technical problems 
while meeting remotely, the person chairing the meeting may decide how to address the technical difficulties, but is 
encouraged wherever possible to suspend discussion while reasonable efforts are made to correct any problem that 
interferes with a remote participant’s ability to hear or be heard clearly.” This guidance comes from the Attorney 
General’s Open Meeting Law Regulations and pertains to technical problems affecting a public body member’s 
ability to hear or be heard clearly during a meeting, not the public’s ability to clearly hear the deliberations of the 
public body. See 940 CMR 29.10(6)(d).   

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
cc: Susan McCready, Chair of the Andover School Committee (via e-mail: 
) 
David Matson (via email: ) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
