===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL:(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
February 4, 2015 
OML 2015-19 
Ms. Kimberly Wetherell 
Peru Conservation Commission 
3 East Main Rd. 
Peru, MA 01235 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Wetherell: 
This office received a complaint from Kim Leach, dated November 7, 2014, alleging that 
the Peru Conservation Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on October 6, 2014, 
and the Commission responded by letter dated October 15, 2014. In her complaint, Ms. Leach 
alleges that the Commission approved meeting minutes outside of a meeting and that the 
Commission created minutes that lacked certain required details. 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Committee's 
response; the request for further review filed with our office; and the minutes from a meeting of 
the Committee held on July 29, 2014. We also interviewed Ms. Wetherell by phone on January 
We find the facts as follows. The Commission is a three-member public body which held 
its first and, so far, only meeting on July 29, 2014. Immediately following this meeting, the 
Commission created a draft set of meeting minutes. The draft minutes state that, during the 
meeting, the Committee elected a Chair, and that the Commission discussed one other order of 
business. The draft minutes do not list the location of the meeting. Ms. Wetherell knew that the 
Commission was not likely to meet again for a substantial amount of time, yet she wanted there 
to be some record of the meeting in case citizens wished to obtain information on what the 
Commission had discussed. Thus, immediately following the July 29, 2014 meeting, Ms. 
Wetherell asked the other members to sign the draft minutes, and she filed the draft minutes with 
the Town Clerk. She did not intend these draft minutes to be the final approved version of the 
minutes for the July 29, 2014 meeting. 
1 For the sake of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
6, 2015. 
FACTS 
SEIU 
===PAGE 2===
On September 8, 2014, the Peru Board of Selectmen held a meeting at which all three 
Commission members were present. The Board of Selectmen discussed with the Commission its 
responsibilities under the Open Meeting Law, including the requirement that meeting minutes 
should be approved during a meeting. Ms. Wetherell replied that she did not believe that it was 
necessary to approve minutes during a meeting if all members were in agreement. Following the 
September 8, 2014 meeting, Ms. Leach requested a copy of the draft minutes for the July 29, 
2014 meeting and filed her Open Meeting Law complaint based on Ms. Wetherell's assertion 
that minutes may be approved outside of a meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body must create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings containing, at a 
minimum, "the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including a record of all votes." G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a). Minutes of all open sessions shall be approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(c). The Open Meeting Law does not provide a definition of "timely manner," but we have 
recommended that minutes be approved at the next meeting whenever possible. See OML 2013-
173; OML 2013-37; OML 2012-91. 
Here, the complaint asserts that the Commission approved the minutes from its July 29, 
2014 meeting outside of a meeting. As evidence, the complaint points to the signatures on the 
bottom of the draft minutes. Ms. Wetherell stated to our office that the draft minutes were never 
intended to be the final approved version of the July 29, 2014 meeting minutes. While it is 
irregular that all three Commission members would have signed a draft, we do not have 
sufficient evidence to find that the Commission members intended the minutes in their current 
form to be the final approved minutes of the July 29, 2014 meeting. Ms. Wetherell has stated to 
our office that the Commission plans to hold its next meeting sometime in February. During that 
meeting, Ms. Wetherell intends to submit for approval a final set of minutes for the July 29, 2014 
meeting. Because the minutes provided to Ms. Leach were draft minutes, we find that the 
Commission did not violate the law by approving minutes outside of an open meeting. 
Furthermore, because these were draft minutes, we find that the Commission did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law by failing to include required details, such as the meeting location. We take 
this opportunity, however, to remind the Commission that the final minutes must include the 
meeting location. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The Open Meeting Law does not specify in what 
manner minutes must be approved. See OML 2014-126. We note that, when a quorum of the 
members of a public body chooses to approve meeting minutes collectively, such approval 
should take place during a properly noticed meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(a)-(b), 21. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Kim Leach 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3 