===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 28, 2023  
  
OML 2023 – 213  
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
Lisa E. Herrington, Esq. 
General Counsel  
Boston Planning & Development Agency 
One City Hall Square 
Boston, MA 02201 
 
lisa.herrington@boston.gov  
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Attorney Herrington:  
 
This office received a complaint from Rosemary Macero on January 26, 2023, alleging 
that the Boston Planning and Development Authority [sic] 1 violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board of the Boston 
Redevelopment Authority d/b/a Boston Planning & Development Agency (“the Board”) on 
November 17, 20222, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated January 26, 2023.  
The complainant alleges that (1) the Board failed to timely notice its meeting of November 17, 
2022; (2) at the November 173 meeting, the Board improperly met in executive session to adopt 
Mayor Michelle Wu’s executive order relative to streamlining the approval of affordable 
housing; and (3) the Board improperly amended timeframes set forth in the Boston Zoning 
Ordinance.     
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters.  Following 
our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, 
the notice of the November 17 meeting, and the complainant’s request for further review. 
 
1 The complaint is directed to the “Boston Planning and Development Authority .”  However, the public body whose 
actions are alleged to be in violation of the Open Meeting Law is the Board of Directors of the Boston 
Redevelopment Authority d/b/a Boston Planning and Development Agency. 
2 The complaint is dated November 17, 2022, but the Board maintains that it did not receive a copy of it until it was 
forwarded by our office on December 28, 2022.  We granted the Board an extension to January 27, 2023 to respond. 
3 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
  
FACTS 
  
We find the facts as follows.  On November 15 at 3:08 p.m., the Clerk of the City of 
Boston posted the notice for the Board’s meeting scheduled for 3:30 p.m. on November 17.  The 
November 17 meeting commenced at 3:30 p.m., as scheduled.  The Board did not enter into 
executive session during the November 17 meeting.   
DISCUSSION 
  
I. Notice of the November 17 meeting was timely posted 
 
Pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, “[e]xcept in an emergency ... a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be “printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and shall contain the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  Id.  For meetings 
of a local public body, unless an alternative posting method has been adopted, the notice must be 
filed with the municipal clerk and posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all 
hours in or on the municipal building in which the clerk’s office is located.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c);  
940 CMR 29.03(2).  The Law allows for alternative methods of posting meeting notices as 
prescribed by the Attorney General.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c).  The Attorney General’s Open 
Meeting Law regulations allow the Chief Executive Officer of a municipality to adopt the 
municipality’s website as the official posting location for meeting notices.  See 940 CMR 
29.03(2)(b).  Once the municipal website has been adopted, “the municipal clerk ... shall file 
with the Attorney General written notice of adoption of the alternative method, including the 
website address where applicable, and any change thereto, and the most current notice posting 
method on file with the Attorney General shall be consistently used.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(c).  On 
October 28, 2016, the Boston City Clerk notified our office by letter that the city had adopted its 
municipal website as its official notice posting location effective December 1, 2016.  See OML 
2018-25.4 
 
The meeting was posted on the City of Boston’s official posting location, its municipal 
website, at 3:08 p.m. on November 15, 48 hours in advance of the November 17 meeting, which 
opened at 3:30 p.m., as scheduled.  Therefore, the meeting was timely noticed.   
 
II. The Board did not meet in executive session on November 17 or otherwise 
deprive the public of access 
 
The complainant claims that the Board improperly met in executive session to discuss 
Mayor Wu’s Executive Order.  The Board has denied that there even was an executive session at 
the meeting of November 17.  The notice for that meeting shows no anticipated executive session 
and the complainant has not presented any evidence of one.  The complainant appears to confuse 
a lack of public participation with executive session.  However, the Open Meeting Law does not 
 
4 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-m eeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
guarantee the public the right to participate in a public body’s meeting.5   At the core of the Open 
Meeting Law is the requirement that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the 
public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a 
public body shall be open to the public.”)  Generally, access to a meeting must include the 
opportunity to be physically present as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the 
members of the public body.  See OML 2020-100; OML 2018-75; OML 2016-54.  The Open 
Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow public participation during its meetings, 
but rather provides that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body without permission 
of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.”  G.L. c. 30A § 20(f).  The 
public was not denied access to the November 17 meeting at any time, and we find no violation 
of the Open Meeting Law on those grounds.  
 
III. We decline to review any allegation that the Board acted outside the scope of its 
authority  
 
The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law.  The complainant alleges that the Board improperly amended timelines established by the 
Boston Zoning Ordinance.  Such an allegation falls outside the Open Meeting Law.  We offer no 
opinion on whether any actions taken by the Board could be a violation of any other law or 
regulation pertaining to public hearings.  See OML 2014-31; OML Declination 10-30-20 
(Billerica Zoning Board of Appeals); OML Declination 6-25-18 (Rowley Planning 
Commission).   
  
 
5 The Board notes in its response that certain items discussed at the November 17 meeting were subject to testimony 
by members of the public, pursuant to Article 80 of the Boston Zoning Code.  The Division of Open Government is 
tasked specifically with enforcing the Open Meeting Law; we make no finding as to whether the Board  complied 
with any other laws or rules outside of our purview that may have required an opportunity for public participation.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the ways alleged.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have 
any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
 
   
Matt
hew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
  
 
cc: Rosemary Macero (via e-mail: )  
 Board of the Boston Planning and Development Agency, via Chair Priscilla R ojas  
(via e-mail: Priscilla.Rojas@boston.gov) 
 Boston City  Clerk (via e-mail: cityclerk@boston.gov) 
  
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
