===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
Brian W. Riley, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
September 22, 2014 
OML 2014- 117 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
This office received two related complaints from Kimberly Wetherell and Robin 
Wadsworth, both dated June 2, alleging that the Peru Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaints were originally filed with the 
Board on or about April 17, and the Board responded by letter dated May 4. In their complaints, 
Ms. Wetherell and Ms. Wadsworth allege that during an April 14 meeting the Board discussed 
employee contracts that were not listed on the agenda. The complainants also allege that two 
Board members left the same meeting without adjournment. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating on matters that were anticipated but not listed on the agenda. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the original complaints filed with the Board; the Board's response; 
and the complaints filed with our office. We also reviewed the minutes from certain Board 
meetings held between February and May of this year, and we conducted an interview with 
Board member Verne Leach via telephone on August 28. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three member public body, thus two 
members constitute a quorum. The Board holds regular meetings, typically on Monday 
evenings, at which time matters of town governance are discussed. One such matter is the 
negotiation and execution of contracts with municipal employees. It is the Board's practice to 
hold discussion of municipal contracts in reserve so that any unused time during the meeting can 
be filled with those discussions. At issue here are the renewals of contracts with two employees. 
Discussion of these contracts was listed on the agendas for meetings held on February 3, 10, and 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
24, as well as on March 3. Due to time constraints, however, discussion of these contracts was 
tabled each time for a later date. 
On April 14, the Board held its weekly meeting. The agenda for that meeting contained 
nine items; the discussion of contracts was not among the topics listed. Item 6 on the April 14 
agenda reads "BPHA suggested price list for services." Due to an unexpected cancellation. Item 
6 was not discussed. The Board opted to use this additional, unforeseen time to finally discuss 
the outstanding contracts. Being unprepared for this discussion, two Board members. Jay Jewell 
and Doug Haskins, left the meeting to retrieve documents relating to the discussion of these 
contracts. Upon their return, the Board undertook discussion of the two contracts. The 
employees, who regularly work in the building during meeting hours, were called in. Both 
employees agreed to the terms, and signed the contracts during the meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
We address the specific allegations in turn. 
L The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Discussing Topics Not Listed on 
the Agenda 
A public body, such as the Board, is required to post notice of a meeting 48 hours in 
advance, including a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice 
with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2014-47; OML 2012-34.2 While public bodies may 
discuss topics not listed on the meeting notice if they were not anticipated 48 hours in advance of 
the meeting, we encourage postponement of discussion on such items whenever possible. See 
OML 2013-87; OML 2013-13; OML 2012-3. 
Here, during its April 14 meeting, the Board was faced with an unforeseen cancellation 
and resulting extra time. The Board chose to use that extra time to go back through its 
previously-undiscussed backlog of items. While recognizing that administrative housekeeping is 
a worthy goal, we conclude that the Open Meeting Law forbids such practice when the items 
discussed were reasonably anticipated by the public body. Members of the public who may have 
been interested in the discussion of these contracts did not have proper notice that they would be 
discussed. Here, the discussion of the two contracts was a longstanding issue, rather than an 
emergency that arose on the day of the meeting. The matter did not need to be resolved 
immediately.3 The Board was aware that discussion of the contracts should be included in a 
meeting notice; indeed, the topic had been listed on at least four prior notices. Accordingly, the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing the contracts. See OML 2014-74, OML 
2014-47. 
While aspects of this violation are similar to those found in a previous determination, we 
do not find that the violation here was intentional. Since our decision in OML 2014-54 was 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 The deadline for negotiating the contracts was June 30. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
issued on May 27, a quorum of the Board's membership has changed 4 While we therefore do 
not find an intentional violation of the law, we wish to impress upon the new Board members the 
importance of familiarizing themselves with prior determinations in order to prevent similar 
violations in the future. 
IL The Board Members Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Leaving the 
Room Without Adjourning the Open Session 
Generally, meetings of a public body must be noticed and open to the public. G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(a), (b). A meeting is "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within 
the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A deliberation is "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. A quorum is generally a simple majority of the 
members of the public body. Id. 
The complaint alleges that two Board members violated the Open Meeting Law by 
leaving the room during the meeting. It is not, in and of itself, a violation of the law for members 
of a public body to leave a meeting room without formal adjournment. However, it would be a 
violation if two members of a three-member board left the room and deliberated outside the open 
meeting. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(b); OML 2013-194; OML 2011-43. Here, we find that while the 
Board members did leave the room to retrieve relevant documents, there is no evidence that any 
deliberation took place outside of public view. We therefore find that the Board actions in this 
respect did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we conclude that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by deliberating on an anticipated topic not listed in the notice for its April 14 meeting. We order 
the Board to review the Open Meeting Law Guide available on the Attorney General's website 
and to certify to our office within thirty (30) days of this decision that all Board members have 
reviewed the Guide and this determination. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
4 Board members Jay Jewell and Doug Haskins have stepped down. They have been replaced by Bruce Cullett and 
Dale Weeks. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
cc: Ms. Kimberly Wetherell 
Ms. Robin Wadsworth 
Peru Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or 
any member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be 
filed in Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
4 