===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass . gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
October 11, 2011 
OML 2011 - 38 
Chris Wings 
Chair 
Wendell Board of Assessors 
Town Office Building 
Wendell, MA 01379 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Wings: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Theodore Lewis, dated April 1, 2011, alleging 
that the Wendell Board of Assessors (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board held "unposted decision making 
meetings" prior to a vote to reorganize the Board, a vote which resulted in removing the 
complainant as chair of the Board. The complaint additionally alleges that the notice for the 
Board's March 2, 2011 meeting was not posted in accordance with the Open Meeting Law. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about March 9, 2011. The Board 
responded to the complaint in a letter dated March 23, 2011. 
We fmd that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when a quorum of the Board 
engaged in deliberations sometime before March 2, 2011, outside of a posted meeting. The 
Board also failed to post sufficiently detailed notices for its regular meetings. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the March 9, 2011 and April 1, 2011 
complaints, as well as the Board's March 23, 2011 response. We reviewed the meeting notices 
for the Board's February 2, February 15, and March 2, March 16, and March 23, 2011 meetings. 
We reviewed the minutes from the Board's March 2 and March 16, 2011 meetings. We also 
reviewed pictures of the Town of Wendell Bulletin Board provided by the complainant. Finally, 
we interviewed by telephone the complainant, Theodore Lewis, on May 10, 2011; Board 
member Stephen Broll on May 12 and May 13, 2011; and Board member Chris Wings' on May 
For the sake of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person. 
1 
===PAGE 2===
13, 2011. 
FACTS 
The Wendell Board of Assessors is a three-person Board composed of members 
Theodore Lewis, Stephen Broll and Chris Wings. Prior to March 2, 2011, the complainant, 
Theodore Lewis, was chair of the Board. Stephen Broll and Theodore Lewis had engaged in 
disputes on a number of policy and personal matters prior to March 2, 2011. 
On Monday February 28, 2011, Mr. Broll received a call from the Town Treasurer, who 
also serves as the Town's personnel administrator. In an interview with our office, Mr. Broll 
explained that the Town Treasurer informed him that Mr. Lewis had refused to sign a time sheet 
for the assistant assessor, who was an employee of the Board. According to Mr. Broll, Mr. 
Lewis disputed the hours listed in the assistant assessor's timesheet. IVIr. Broll stated that he felt 
that the Town employee needed to be paid because she relied on her paycheck. 
Following this conversation, Mr. Broll contacted Dan Keller, a member of the Wendell 
Board of Selectmen, and asked him whether the Board of Assessors could reorganize its 
leadership. According to Mr. Broll, Mr. Keller reported back to him that Town Counsel had 
advised that the Board of Assessors could reorganize its leadership at any time. 
Mr. Broll then contacted Board member Chris Wings by telephone. This conversation 
occurred sometime between Monday February 28, 2011 and March 2, 2011. Mr. Broll recounted 
the incident where Mr. Lewis refused to sign the Board employee's time sheet. He then asked 
Ms. Wings if she would be willing to serve as chair of the Board. Mr. Broll explained to our 
office that he felt a responsibility to the assistant assessor and he felt there was a time constraint 
to resolve this ahead of the regular Board meeting scheduled for March 2, 2011. Ms. Wings 
agreed to serve as the new chair, a vote which would take place at the March 2, 2011 meeting. 
In an interview with our office, Ms. Wings stated that she agreed to serve as chair because the 
Board meetings were very tense and at times dysfunctional because of the conflicts between Mr. 
Lewis and Mr. Broll. Mr. Broll explained to our office that, at the time, his understanding of the 
Open Meeting Law was limited and that it never occurred to him that his conversation with Ms. 
Wings might run afoul of the law. 
On March 2, 2011, the Board of Assessors met for its regular meeting. A notice for the 
meeting was posted, though never filed with the municipal clerk. At the beginning of the 
meeting, Ms. Wings made a motion to reorganize the Board. In her interview with our office, 
Ms. Wings stated that she explained at the meeting that the Board was not working well, and that 
it might ease the conflict between Mr. Broll and Mr. Lewis if someone else chaired the meeting. 
She did not want the responsibility, but was willing to accept it. Mr. Lewis disagreed with the 
reorganizing. By a vote of two to one, the Board voted to reorganize, with Ms. Wings as the new 
chair. 
Mr. Lewis filed his complaint with the Board on March 9, 2011. Following the 
complaint, the Board agreed to hold a new meeting and re-vote on all the items from the March 
2, 2011 meeting, including re-organization. That meeting was held on March 16, 2011. A 
meeting notice was posted March 14, 2011 with a listing of topics, including "Reorganization of 
2 
===PAGE 3===
the Board." In its response to the complaint and the specific allegation that members of the 
Board met outside of a posted meeting to plan the reorganization, the Board wrote that "no such 
meetings took place." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge,  376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Except in an emergency, "a public body shall post notice 
of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Notices shall 
contain "the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." The listing of topics "shall have sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 
CMR 29.03(b). 
A "meeting" is "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction; however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting [material] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. A "quorum" is "a simple majority of 
the members of the public body, unless otherwise provided in a general or special law, executive 
order or other authorizing provision." Id. 
When Stephen Broll contacted Chris Wings to discuss reorganizing the leadership of the 
Board of Assessors, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. There are three members of the 
Board; thus two members constitute a quorum. Stephen Broll and Chris Wings engaged in a 
deliberation because they constituted a quorum of the Board and communicated on matters of 
"public business within [the Board's] jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The organization of the 
Board is a matter of public business, and should have been discussed in a public meeting. 
Mr. Broll explained to our office that, at the time of the violation, his understanding of 
the Open Meeting Law was limited and that it never occurred to him that his conversation with 
Ms. Wings might be prohibited. Ignorance does not excuse the violation. We expect all public 
body members to make reasonable efforts to educate themselves about the Open Meeting Law. 
Indeed, deliberate ignorance of the law's requirements may be grounds for finding an intentional 
violation. That does not, however seem to be the case here. We understand that Mr. Broll and 
Ms. Wings thought that their discussion to reorganize the leadership of the Board was an 
administration matter akin to a scheduling conversation, which is exempt from the definition of 
"deliberation." See G. L. c. 30A, § 18 ("deliberation' shall not include the distribution of a 
meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting [material] 
...provided that no opinion of a member is expressed"). Discussions by public body members 
regarding a meeting time or location are not deliberations, nor are the distribution of a meeting 
agenda or items to be considered at a meeting. However, discussions of other procedural or 
administrative matters are deliberations, such as the organization and leadership of the public 
body, committee assignments, rules or bylaws for the body, and discussions of whether the body 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Sincerely, 
should consider or take action on specific topics at a future meeting. The Board's interpretation 
of deliberation in this instance was wrong therefore, but we believe it reflects a lack of 
understanding of the requirements of the law, rather than an intent to evade it. 
Moreover, after Mr. Lewis filed his complaint with the Board, the Board responded by 
properly posting notice of another meeting, at which it held new votes on all matters considered 
at the March 2, 2011 meeting. The fact that the Board attempted to cure the violation is 
significant because its gets to the heart of what the law is meant to accomplish—transparency in 
government. In addition, both Mr. Broll and Ms. Wings have now attended a training on the 
Open Meeting Law, demonstrating a commitment to better understand and fully implement the 
law. 
In a similar vein, we find that the Board failed to post sufficiently detailed notices for its 
meetings on several occasions prior to March 2, 2011. The meeting notices often contained 
topics that failed to provide any level of specificity. In its March 23, 2011 response to the 
complaint, the Board wrote that "it was agreed that the agenda planned and posted for this 
meeting should have contained a greater degree of detail when listing topics to be discussed." 
Again, the Board failed to adequately educate itself on the requirements of the Open Meeting 
Law. However, we credit the Board's response to the complaint as a commitment to begin 
posting meeting notices containing sufficiently detailed agenda topics. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by engaging in deliberation 
outside of a posted meeting. Additionally, we find that the Board failed to post meeting notices 
containing a sufficiently detailed listing of topics. We order: 
1 Immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§18-25. 
Any future similar violation may be considered an intentional violation; and 
2. Attendance at a training on the Open Meeting Law and certification to this Office that 
every member of the Board has attended that training. The trainings are to be 
conducted by an attorney or organization familiar with the requirements of the Law 
and approved by this Office. The Board members may certify to this Office if they 
have attended trainings since the complaint was first filed. 
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this 
determination, or believe any of the facts presented to be inaccurate, please do not hesitate to 
contact me at the number below. 
cc: Theodore Lewis 
Yonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
4 