===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 29, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 95 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Fred Dupere, Esq. 
Dupere Law Offices 
94 North Elm Street, Suite 307 
Westfield, MA 01085 
 
 
 RE: 
Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Dupere: 
This office received two complaints from Craig Swinson on March 5, 2020, alleging that 
the Richmond School Committee (the “School Committee”) and the Richmond Superintendency 
Advisory Committee (the “Advisory Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the School Committee and the Advisory 
Committee on January 27 and 29 respectively, and your office responded on behalf of the School 
Committee by letters dated February 14 and 18 respectively.1 In his complaints, Mr. Swinson 
alleges that the Advisory Committee failed to post notice for a joint meeting with the School 
Committee on January 9, and moved the meeting location without sufficient public notice. 
Finally, Mr. Swinson also alleges that the School Committee failed to provide Open Meeting 
Law materials to the Advisory Committee and that Advisory Committee members failed to 
certify their receipt of Open Meeting Law materials.2  
Following our review, we find that that the Advisory Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to post notice for the January 9 meeting. We also find that the School 
Committee failed to provide Open Meeting Law materials to all members of the Advisory 
Committee in a timely manner. We find no violations regarding the other allegations. In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the School Committee’s and Advisory 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 The complaint also alleges that the Advisory Committee members failed to read the Open Meeting Law or any 
recent determinations in which our office found an Open Meeting Law violation by the Committee. We note that, 
even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Open Meeting Law only 
requires that public body members certify receipt of the materials. See 940 CMR 29.04 (1). Accordingly, we decline 
to review these allegations. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Committee’s responses to the complaints, and the complainant’s requests for further review. We 
also reviewed the School Committee’s January 9 meeting notice and December 4 and 10, 2019 
meeting minutes. We also emailed with you on several occasions in July 2020.  
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. At a December 10, 2019, meeting, the School Committee 
officially appointed the fourteen-member Advisory Committee. None of the Advisory 
Committee members were School Committee members. On January 1 at approximately 9:45 
a.m., the School Committee submitted notice with the Clerk’s Office of a meeting to be held on 
January 9 at 4:30 p.m. The Clerk then posted the meeting notice on both the Town’s website and 
in a glass-enclosed case outside of the Town Building. It is the Clerk’s practice to post all notices 
in both locations. The only discussion topic on the meeting notice was “Superintendency 
Advisory Committee” which included several subtopics: “Introductions,” “Review of guiding 
document from the School Committee, including objective,” “Selection of Chairperson,” and 
“Discussion.” The header of the meeting notice specified that the meeting notice was for a 
meeting of the School Committee, and did not indicate that the meeting would be a joint meeting 
with the Advisory Committee. The notice listed the meeting location as the Richmond 
Consolidated School cafeteria.  
Shortly before the meeting began on January 9, the School Committee moved the 
meeting location to another room in the Richmond Consolidated School because the cafeteria 
became unavailable due to a student event. Prior to the start of the meeting, the School 
Committee posted a notice on the School’s single front door indicating the room change. A 
quorum of the Advisory Committee was present at the January 9 meeting. During the meeting, 
the Advisory Committee took many initial organizational steps and effectively held its first 
meeting.  
On January 24, Advisory Committee Co-Chair Lauren Broussal emailed members of the 
Advisory Committee a copy of the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law Guide.  
DISCUSSION 
I. The Advisory Committee failed to post notice for its January 9 joint meeting with the 
School Committee.  
 The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice of a meeting at least 48 
hours in advance of a meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). “Public body” is defined, in relevant part, as 
“a multiple-member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or 
legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, 
appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
 The municipal clerk must post not ice of meetings in a manner conspicuously visible to 
the public at all hours in or on the municipal building in which the clerk's office is located. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(c). Alternatively, the Chief Executive Officer of the municipality may authorize the 
adoption of the municipal website as the official method of posting notice. 940 CMR 
29.03(2)(1).  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 Here, the Advisory Committee concedes that it is a public body and that it failed to post 
notice for its January 9 meeting. The Advisory Committee has already taken remedial action by 
holding its discussion from this meeting over again in another open meeting. Therefore, we order 
no further remedial action. The School Committee, on the other hand, posted notice for its 
January 9 meeting, and we therefore find that the School Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  
 We take this opportunity to remind the School Committee and Advisory Committee that 
the Town of Richmond has not adopted the town website as its official notice posting location 
and therefore the official notice posting location for meeting notices for all Richmond public 
bodies is the glass-enclosed case outside the Town Building. If the Town wishes to formally 
adopt its website as the official notice posting location for all town public bodies, it may do so in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in 940 CMR 29.03(1).  
II. The School Committee permissibly changed the meeting location of its January 9 
meeting. 
 A public body must post notice of  every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must be 
printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the 
meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. Id. 
Meetings of a public body must be open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21.  
 The School Committee moved its January 9 meeting to another ro om in the Richmond 
Consolidated School because the cafeteria became unavailable at the last minute due to a student 
event. The School Committee posted notice on the front door of the school indicating the room 
change such that anyone who entered the school would have seen the sign on their way to the 
meeting. Where, as here, a public body provides conspicuous and timely signage to indicate to 
the public that a meeting has been moved within the same building, we do not find an Open 
Meeting Law violation. See OML 2017-152.3  
III. The School Committee failed to provide Open Meeting Law materials to all members of 
the Advisory Committee in a timely manner.  
 The Open Meeting Law requires that “within 2 weeks of qualification for office” all 
persons serving on a public body shall certify that they have received a copy of the Open 
Meeting Law, the Attorney General’s regulations and the Attorney General’s Guide to the Open 
Meeting Law from the public body’s the appointing authority, executive director, or other 
appropriate administrator or their designees. See G.L. c. 30A § 20 (h). In addition, the new 
members must receive a copy of any Open Meeting Law determinations issued to that public 
body by the Attorney General within the last five years in which the Attorney General found a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. See 940 CMR 29.04 (1).  
 In addition, according to the Atto rney General’s Regulations, within two weeks after 
receipt of the Open Meeting Law materials, local public body members shall certify, on the form 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
prescribed by the Attorney General, receipt of such materials. 940 CMR 29.04 (1). An individual 
serving on multiple public bodies must sign a certification for each public body on which he or 
she serves. However, a public body member does not need to sign a separate certification when 
joining a subcommittee of the public body. See 940 CMR 29.04 (4). The municipal clerk shall 
maintain the signed certification for each such person, indicating the date the person received the 
materials. Id; see also OML 2019-28. 
Here, the School Committee concedes that, as the Advisory Committee’s appointing 
authority, the School Committee failed to provide members of the Advisory Committee with 
Open Meeting Law materials within two weeks of their appointment. Rather, on January 24, over 
a month after their appointment on December 10, members of the Advisory Committee received 
from one of the Advisory Committee’s co-chairs only the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law 
Guide. The School Committee has since provided the required materials to all Advisory 
Committee members and updating its procedures to ensure that the materials are delivered in a 
timely manner to all future subcommittees or advisory committees. 
 Finally, we note that all members  of the Advisory Committee were required to file Open 
Meeting Law certifications. The Advisory Committee had received certifications from all of its 
members by the time of its response on February 18 and, therefore, we find that any violation 
that may have occurred has been remedied.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, w e find that that the Advisory Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to post notice for the January 9 joint meeting with the School 
Committee. We also find that the School Committee failed to provide Open Meeting Law 
materials to all members of the Advisory Committee in a timely manner. We order the School 
Committee’s and Advisory Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law and caution that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future 
may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this  determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
School Committee or Advisory Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 
2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Chase 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Craig Swinson (via e-mail:  )   
 Richmond School Committee c/o Chairperson Dewey Wayatt (via e- ma il: 
  ) 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 