===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
May 2, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 88 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
John Robidoux 
Superintendent of Schools 
  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Superintendent Robidoux: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on September 22, 2021,1 alleging 
that the Swansea School Committee’s Policy Subcommittee (the “Subcommittee”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed on August 18, 
and you responded on behalf of the Subcommittee by letter dated September 22. The complaint 
alleges that the Subcommittee’s August 18 meeting was inaccessible to the public.   
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a) and find that the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged 
in the complaint. In reaching this determination we reviewed the original Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Subcommittee’s response, and the request for further review. Additionally, we 
communicated with the Complainant by email and followed up with the Superintendent via 
email as well.2  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be open and 
accessible to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). 
Access to a meeting generally must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as to 
see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2015-38; 
OML 2014-3; OML 2013-189; OML 2012-66.3 In order for a meeting to be “open to the public,” 
the meeting venue must be accessible to the public for the duration of the meeting. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(a); OML 2012-46; OML 2014-118. Ideally, doors necessary to access meeting 
 
1 All dates are in 2021, unless otherwise noted. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
locations should not be locked. However, we have found that a meeting in a locked building is 
sufficiently accessible where members of the public can promptly access the building by 
notifying personnel or knocking on a window. See OML 2011-52. In addition, for a meeting to 
be truly “open to the public” it must be held at a location that is accessible to persons with 
disabilities. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); see also OML 2012-49 (stating that meetings of public 
bodies must be held in locations that are compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act). 
 
The Subcommittee held a meeting on August 18 at 3:00 p.m. at the Swansea School 
Administration building at One Gardners Neck Road in Swansea. The Complainant alleges that 
he was unable to attend the Subcommittee’s August 18 meeting because the accessible entrance 
to the building was locked and he was unable to gain entry to the building. The Complainant 
further explains that there were no signs providing instructions for gaining entrance to the 
building, and that he twice rang a doorbell—at 2:45 p.m. and again at 3:00 p.m.—but there was 
no response. Finally, in subsequent communications with our office, the Complainant asserted 
that the front entrance of the building was locked as well.  
 
Although the Subcommittee asserted in its response that “[t]here was equitable access at 
both the main and handicap accessible doors to the building” and that six members of the public 
attended the August 18 meeting, the Subcommittee did not deny that the accessible entrance was 
locked. Instead, the Subcommittee explained that “access during business hours is via security 
buzzer and camera system which is answered by administrative assistants.” In response to further 
questioning from our office, the Superintendent did not dispute the Complainant’s assertion that 
he twice rang a doorbell at the accessible entrance and received no response. Furthermore, the 
Subcommittee did not deny that there were no signs informing the public how to gain entrance to 
the building; the Subcommittee committed to adding such signage going forward. Based on the 
above facts, we conclude that the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law when a member 
of the public was denied access to its August 18 meeting.  
 
We commend the Subcommittee for committing to posting signs in the future that will 
instruct the public how to gain entrance to the building. We also advise the Subcommittee that if 
it continues to hold meetings in a locked building it must ensure that members of the public can 
gain timely access to the meeting for the entire duration of the meeting, including via accessible 
entrances.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Subcommittee’s August 18 meeting was 
inaccessible to a member of the public, in violation of the Open Meeting Law. We order the 
Subcommittee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that 
similar future violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Subcommittee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Thomas Rodrigues, Jr., Chair, Swansea School Committee (via e-mail: 
  
Patrick Higgins (via e-mail:  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
