===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
October 6, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 126 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Jason Piques, Esq. 
Assistant City Attorney 
City of Somerville 
jpiques@somervillema.gov 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Piques: 
 
This office received a complaint from Osnat Hoffman on December 19, 2025,
0F
1 alleging 
that the Somerville City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about November 16, and 
you responded, on behalf of the Council, by letter dated December 8. The complaint alleges that 
the Council discussed a topic during its November 13 meeting that was not included in the notice 
for the meeting. 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Council’s 
response, the request for further review, as well as the notice, minutes, and recording of the 
Council meeting held on November 13.
1F
2 In addition, we communicated with you via email 
between July 22 and 27, 2026.2F
3 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A recording of the November 13 meeting can be found at https://citizenportal.ai/source/6899925/city-council-on-
2025-11-13-700-pm); notices and minutes of Council meetings can be found at  
https://somervillema.legistar.com/Calendar.aspx. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On November 10 at 3:15 P.M., the Council posted 
notice of a meeting to be held on November 13 at 7:00 P.M. The notice listed 10 main topic 
headings, under which more specific item descriptions were listed that further advised the public 
of the topics to be discussed under those main headings.   
 
At 5:01 P.M. on November 10, City Councilor Willie Burnley Jr. emailed the Somerville 
City Clerk’s office,
3F
4 requesting that two additional topics be included in the notice for the 
November 13 meeting. Neither Council President Lance Davis nor any other members of the 
Council were included on this email to the Clerk’s Office. The two additional items requested to 
be added by Councilor Burnley included a citation and a resolution. The citation stated: “Be it 
hereby known to all that the Somerville City Council offers its sincerest commendation to 
Somerville for Palestine For their uncompromising pursuit of justice, tireless civic engagement, 
and steadfast solidary with the Palestinian people locally and in the diaspora.” The resolution 
stated that the “Council commits to work towards passing an ordinance within a year that 
implements the will of the majority of Somerville voters to boycott and divest in accordance with 
the language of Ballot Question 3,
4F
5 and in a manner that is practicable and legally feasible.” 
 
The Clerk’s Office closed at 4:30 P.M. on November 10, and was closed the next day, 
November 11, for the Veterans Day legal holiday. On November 12 at 12:15 P.M., the Council 
revised the notice to include the citation and resolution under the main topic heading 
“SUPPLEMENTAL ITEMS.” According to the Council, this topic heading is routinely used for 
items not reasonably anticipated by the Chair. 
 
 The November 13 meeting was held as planned. During the meeting, Councilor Burnley 
spoke about the importance of honoring the effort by the residents of Somerville to make the city 
a better place and highlighted the efforts of Somerville for Palestine (“SFP”)
5F
6 to create an 
environment of love following a tragedy. Councilor Burnley explained that the purpose of the 
citation was to honor SFP for “creat[ing] an environment of joy, of community, and of civic 
engagement” within Somerville. Councilor Burnley then invited Mia Haddad, a SFP 
representative, to speak on the citation. Ms. Haddad remarked that SFP is a beautiful community 
and “has taught me hope, showed me true humanity, and made me feel like Palestinian liberation 
is possible within my lifetime.” She highlighted the scale of SFP’s impact within Somerville, 
commenting that “[SFP has] over 300 people who spent every night and weekend for the past 
several months out on the streets of Sommerville […] making sure people exercise their right to 
vote for question 3.” After Ms. Haddad concluded her remarks, President Davis announced that 
 
4 Councilor Burnley sent the email to “orders&resolutions@somervillema.gov.” Attorney Piques explained that 
emails sent to that address automatically forwarded to several officials in the City Clerk’s office, including former 
City Clerk Kimberly Wells, who was also Clerk for the Council. 
5 Ballot Question 3 refers to an initiative petition that was placed on the 2025 Somerville Municipal Ballot. Its 
language read, “Shall the Mayor of Somerville and all Somerville elected leaders be instructed to end all current city 
business and prohibit future city investments and contracts with companies as long as such companies engage in 
business that sustains Israel’s apartheid, genocide, and illegal occupation of Palestine?” Over 50% of voters 
approved the petition.   
6 SFP is a community-led activist group that advocates for Palestinian liberation and local municipal divestment. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
the citation “is approved” and the resolution “is laid on the table.” There was no further 
discussion of either matter by members of the Council. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in 
emergencies, public bodies must “post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays,” and that the “[n]otice shall be 
printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time and place of 
such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35.
6F
7 
 
The complaint alleges that the Council discussed a topic, Ballot Question 3, that was not 
listed on the November 13 meeting notice when it allowed Ms. Haddad to speak during the 
meeting about SFP and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, which issues related to Ballot Question 3. 
A public body may discuss a topic that was not included in the meeting notice if the chair did not 
reasonably anticipate discussion of that topic at least 48 hours before the meeting. See OML 
2023-203; OML 2012-3. Where the chair of a public body has designated some other individual 
to create  meeting notices, we look to what the chair and the other individual responsible for 
creating the meeting notice reasonably anticipated, within 48 hours, would be discussed at the 
meeting. See OML 2022-167; OML 2021-146. Here, the Council had designated then City Clerk 
Kimberly Wells to create and post meeting notices. Therefore, we must determine what President 
Davis and Ms. Wells anticipated would be discussed at the November 13 meeting. 
 
On November 10 at 3:15 P.M., the Council posted notice of a meeting to be held on 
November 13 at 7:00 P.M.; this notice did not include a topic related to the citation, resolution or 
Ballot Question 3. On November 10 at 5:01 P.M., still more than 48 hours prior to the November 
13 meeting, Councilor Burnley emailed the Somerville City Clerk’s office requesting that two 
additional topics be included in the notice. Although Councilor Burnley’s email was sent more 
than 48 hours prior to the November 13 meeting, Ms. Wells did not see the email until 
November 12 because the Clerk’s Office was closed at the time the email was sent on November 
10 and also closed the next day on November 11 for the Veterans Day legal holiday. At 12:15 
P.M. on November 12, the Council amended the notice to include the citation commending SFP 
and the resolution which sought to pass an ordinance in accordance with the language of Ballot 
Question 3. 
 
We find here that neither President Davis nor Ms. Wells reasonably anticipated 
discussion of the citation, resolution or Ballot Question 3 48 hours prior to the November 13 
meeting. First, Councilor Burnley’s email requesting the addition of two topics, the citation and 
resolution, was sent to the City Clerk’s Office and not to President Davis. See OML 2019-117 
 
7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
(refusing to charge public body chair with notice of a topic that was emailed to municipal staff 
three days before a meeting, where the town staff failed to forward the email to the Board). 
Moreover, President Davis asserts that he did not anticipate discussion of either the citation or 
resolution until November 12, when he saw the two topics on the amended notice. As such, we 
find that President Davis did not reasonably anticipate discussion of the matters 48 hours before 
the Thursday, November 13 meeting. 
 
 Second, based  on our communications with Attorney Piques, we find that Ms. Wells did 
not see Councilor Burnley’s email until Wednesday, November 12. We have previously declined 
to find that a public body reasonably anticipated discussion of a topic that was emailed to an 
administrative assistant several days before a meeting, but where the administrative assistant was 
on vacation and returned one day before the meeting. See OML 2011-53. Moreover, we have 
found that an email including the names of recommended applicants “likely was not seen until 
Monday” where it was sent to a public body on a Friday afternoon, after the Town Hall had 
closed for the day. See OML 2021-69. We find here that Ms. Wells could not have reasonably 
anticipated discussion of the citation or resolution 48 hours prior to the November 13 meeting 
where the Clerk’s Office was closed at the time Councilor Burnley emailed his request and also 
closed the following day such that the Councilor’s request to add the citation and resolution to 
the notice was not seen until the day before the meeting. Where neither President Davis nor Ms. 
Wells reasonably anticipated discussion of the citation, resolution or Ballot Question 3 until the 
day before the November 13 meeting, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We commend the Council for following our recommended best practice of amending its 
meeting notice to include topics that arise fewer than 48 hours before a meeting, so that members 
of the public are given advance notice of agenda items. See OML 2021-49; OML 2015-111; 
OML 2015-76. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the way alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Council or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by Ian Harvey, Legal Intern 
 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
cc: Osnat Hoffman (via email:  
Somerville City Council c/o Council President Lance Davis (via email: 
ldavis@somervillema.gov)  
Somerville City Clerk (via email: cityclerk@somervillema.gov) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
