===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
June 3,2019 
OML 2019-61
John J. Clifford, Esq.
Clifford & Kenny, LLP 
31 Schoosett Street, Suite 405 
Pembroke, MA 02359
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Attorney Clifford:
This office received three complaints from Patrick Higgins on July 23, alleging that the 
Rockland Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§
18-25.1 The complaints were originally filed with the Board on or about June 23 and June 24, 
and you responded to the complaints, on behalf of the Board, by separate letters dated July 16. 
The first complaint alleges that the Board’s May 7 meeting notice lacked sufficient detail 
because it failed to identify the name of the individual to be considered for a committee 
appointment at that meeting. The second complaint alleges that the Board’s May 15 meeting 
notice lacked sufficient detail because it failed to identify the nonunion personnel to be discussed 
in executive session. The third complaint alleges that the Board’s May 29 meeting notice i) 
lacked sufficient detail because it did not identify the litigation matter to be discussed in 
executive session, and ii) failed to include the date and time it was amended.
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters. Following 
our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting a notice for its 
meeting on May 15 that provided insufficient detail about a topic to be discussed. We further 
find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to record with the amended notice 
for the May 29 meeting the date and time that the original notice had been posted. We find that 
the Board did not violate the law in the other ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s responses to those complaints, and the complaints 
filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notices and open session 
minutes of Board meetings held on May 7, May 15 and May 29, as well as the executive session 
minutes of the Board’s May 29 meeting. Finally, we spoke with you2 and Attorney Daniel
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018, unless otherwise indicated.
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter.

===PAGE 2===
Amelang by telephone and email on various dates in December 2018, January 2019, and May 
2019.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. On May 3 at 3:22 P.M., the Board posted notice for a 
meeting to be held on Monday, May 7 at 6:30 P.M. The notice listed two topics: “Appointment 
to the Capital Planning Committee” and “Action prior to the Town Meeting to address issues and 
articles on the STM/TM warrant.”
The May 7 meeting was held as planned. Town Administrator Allan Chiocca told the 
Board it needed to appoint someone to the vacant position on the Capital Planning Committee. 
Board member Michael O’Loughlin made a motion to appoint Larry Ryan to the vacant position, 
and the Board unanimously voted to appoint Mr. Ryan. The Board then discussed certain 
articles listed on the Town Meeting warrant.
On May 11 at 12:39 P.M., the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on Tuesday, 
May 15 at 7:00 P.M. The notice listed fifteen topics, including an “Executive Session for 
contract negotiations.”
The May 15 meeting was held as planned. The Board approved several sets of meeting 
minutes and the sale of a municipal bond; discussed a grant, road work, the dissolution of the 
Teen Center Advisory Board, a draft open space and recreation plan, a host community 
agreement, and standard operating procedures for the Board and School Committee; established 
a Storm Water Committee; and received updates from the Town Administrator. Board member 
Larry Ryan then moved to enter into executive session “for contract negotiations.” The Board 
approved a unanimous vote by roll call to convene in executive session. During the executive 
session, the Board discussed contract terms for the Town Administrator.
On May 24 at 4:12 PM, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on May 29 at 
7:00 P.M. The notice listed two topics: “Convene Open Session” and “Executive Session.” 
Specifically, the notice included two executive session topics: to consider complaints or charges 
against public officers and to discuss strategy with respect to litigation. On May 25 at 9:19 AM, 
the Board amended the notice to include two additional executive session topics: negotiations 
with non-union personnel and strategy for negotiations with non-union personnel.
The May 29 meeting was held as planned. The Committee first convened in open session 
and Chair Edward F. Kimball stated that the Board would not convene in executive session “for 
the purposes of litigation strategy for negotiations with non-union personnel.” Board member 
Ryan then moved to enter into executive session “for the the purpose of considering complaints 
or charges against public officers.” The Board approved a unanimous vote by roll call to 
convene in executive session and announced that it would reconvene in open session following 
the executive session. During the executive session, the Board discussed allegations of 
misconduct against two Town officials and placed Town Administrator Chiocca on paid 
administrative leave.
The Board reconvened in open session at 7:15 P.M. Town Legal Counsel John Clifford 
stated that the Board was “aware of serious allegations regarding potential misconduct by certain 
town officials.” Attorney Clifford announced that the Board hired an attorney to conduct an
2

===PAGE 3===
independent investigation of the allegations and placed Town Administrator Chiocca on paid 
administrative leave.
DISCUSSION
The complaints allege that the notices for the Board’s May 7, May 15, and May 29 
meetings lacked sufficient detail. The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the 
secrecy surrounding deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. 
School Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires 
that a public body post notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting and include a “listing of topics 
that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with “sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public 
could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See 
OML 2011-44.3
I. The Notice for the May 15 Meeting was Insufficiently Detailed, but We Find No
Violation with Respect to the Sufficiency of the May 7 and May 29 Notices.
The first complaint alleges that the notice for the Board’s May 7 meeting failed to 
identify the individual who was to be appointed to the Capital Planning Committee. The Open 
Meeting Law requires that public bodies describe meeting notice topics with specificity. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). Although the May 7 notice indicated that the Board 
would make an appointment to the Capital Planning Committee, it did not include the name of an 
individual. During the May 7 meeting, Board member Michael O’Loughlin nominated Larry 
Ryan to the Capital Planning Committee and the Board unanimously approved the nomination. 
To the extent that the Board knows the name of the specific individual to be appointed to a 
committee, such information should be included in the meeting notice. See 2015-196; OML 
2014- 155; OML 2011-11. Here, Mr. Ryan’s name was not mentioned until Mr. O’Loughlin 
recommended him as a candidate during the May 7 meeting. As such, we find that the chair did 
not reasonably anticipate that Mr. Ryan would be nominated at the meeting and thus the Board 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law by not including his name on the May 7 meeting notice. 
See OML 2017-170.
The second and third complaints allege that the notices for the Board’s May 15 and May 
29 meetings lacked sufficient detail because they did not adequately describe the topics to be 
discussed in executive session. Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting 
notice and in an announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm, of Wayland. 455 Mass. 561, 
567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary 
... because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct 
business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was 
proper or improper”). Although we generally defer to a public body's assessment of whether the
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
inclusion of such information would compromise the purpose for the executive session, a public 
body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for such a claim if challenged. See OML 
2015-14.
A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a). One such purpose permits a public body to meet in executive session to 
“conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct 
collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.” G.L. c. 30A,
§21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”). Another permissible reason for entering executive session is “[t]o 
discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”). When convening in executive session under 
Purpose 2 or Purpose 3, a public body must identify the nonunion personnel with whom it will be 
negotiating or the litigation matter it will discuss, if doing so will not compromise the lawful 
purpose for secrecy. See OML 2017-53; OML 2016-43; OML 2016-12; OML 2013-151.
Here, the May 15 meeting notice indicated that the Board would convene in executive 
session to discuss contract negotiations. The Board suggests that “identifying the Town 
Administrator by name or by position would have compromised the legal purpose for which the 
Board entered into executive session.” However, the Board does not demonstrate a reasonable 
basis for withholding the identity of the Town Administrator and we fail to see how listing Mr. 
Chiocca’s name or position on the notice would have compromised the Board’s negotiating 
position. Thus, we find that the May 15 meeting notice was not sufficiently detailed and should 
have identified the non-union personnel with whom the Board was negotiating under Purpose 2. 
This additional detail would have provided the public with an understanding of the specific 
subject of the executive session discussion, and its omission violated the Open Meeting Law.
See OML 2017-69; OML 2014-133.
Because the Board did not convene in executive session on May 29 to discuss litigation 
under Purpose 3, we find no violation with respect to the sufficiency of that executive session 
topic listed on the notice. When a public body does not actually deliberate on a noticed topic, the 
public body cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to that topic, even if it would 
have been insufficiently detailed had the public body proceeded with its deliberation. See OML 
2015-63; OML 2014-81.
II. The May 29 Revised Meeting Notice Failed to Include the Date and Time that the
Notice was Originally Posted.
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies “post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A,
§ 20(b). “The date and time that the notice is posted shall be conspicuously recorded thereon or 
therewith.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(d); See OML 2011-45. Notices that are revised within the 48 
hours before the meeting must conspicuously record both the date and time that it was posted and 
the date and time that the notice was originally posted. See 940 CMR 29.03(l)(d); OML 2017- 
183; OML 2013-44.
Here, the Board originally posted notice of its May 29 meeting on May 24 at 4:12 PM.
On May 25 at 9:19 AM, the Board amended that notice. The amended notice included the date
4

===PAGE 5===
and time that it was posted. The complaint alleges that it should have also included the date and 
time that the original notice had been posted. We agree. Because of the Memorial Day holiday, 
the notice was revised within the 48 hours prior to the meeting. Therefore, the Board should 
have included with the revised notice not only the date and time that it was posted, but also the 
date and time that the original notice was posted. Because the amended notice failed to include 
the date and time of the original posting, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
See OML 2015-43.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently detailed notice for its May 15 meeting and by failing to conspicuously 
record with the revised May 29 notice the time and date that the original notice was posted. We 
order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution 
that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Patrick Higgins
Rockland Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
5
