===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www. mass .gov/ago 
June 1,2016 
OML 2016-44 
Bruce Assad, Esq. 
16 Bedford Street, Suite 3 A 
PO Box 1268 
Fall River, MA 02722 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint- Amended 
Dear Attorney Assad: 
This office received a complaint from CJ Ferry on November 29, 2015, alleging that the 
Fall River School Committee (the Committee) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about October 15, 2015, 
and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, to the complaint by letter dated November 24, 
2015.1 In his complaint, Mr. Ferry alleges that the Committee "regularly goes into executive 
session without a description of why and what matters will be discussed" and its "agendas 
regularly just list names," as evidenced by the notices for meetings held on September 14, 2014 
and October 13, 2015.2 Additionally, Mr. Ferry alleges that the Committee convenes in 
executive session "to conduct regular evaluations of contract employees." 
On March 30, 2016, we issued a determination in which we found that the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to provide sufficient detail about an October 13, 2015 
executive session, both on the meeting notice and in the chair's verbal statement during the 
meeting. In April 2016, you provided our office with additional information about the topic at 
issue and based on that information, you requested that our office reconsider our finding. 
1 Our office approved the Committee's request for an extension of time to respond to the complaint by November 
27,2015. 
2 We find the allegation regarding the September 14, 2015 meeting untimely filed with the Board. Complaints 
alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the alleged 
violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged violation could not reasonably have been known at the time it 
occurred, then the complaint must be filed within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered. 
940 CMR 29.05(3). When an alleged violation occurs in open session, the alleged violation can reasonably be 
discovered at the time it occurs. Because the allegation regarding the September 14, 2015 meeting notice could 
have been discovered by the time the meeting occurred, a complaint containing this allegation should have been 
filed by October 14, 2015. Accordingly, we find this allegation untimely and decline to review it. 
3 Our office does not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations, thus our review is 
limited to the specific meeting dates alleged in the complaint. See OML 2015-128. 
o 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
Following a further review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
This determination supersedes the letter we issued on March 30, 2016. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response to the complaint, 
and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notice 
of, and open and executive session minutes from, the Committee's October 13, 2015 meeting. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On October 13, 2015, the Committee held a meeting, in 
part, to convene an executive session to discuss several employment contracts. The meeting 
notice, posted on October 8, 2015, listed the executive session topic as, "Request for Executive 
Session M.G.L. c30A Section 21 (a) (2) and (3) [t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
all litigation or grievances, as well as negotiations with custodians, paraprofessionals, clerical, 
FREA, FRAA, and non-union personnel including John Gomes- Behavior Therapist; Pamela 
Nickerson- Writer/Producer for FRED-TV & FRG-TV; and Meg Mayo-Brown- Superintendent 
of Schools." 
During the meeting, the Committee stated the puipose as written in the notice, along with 
the additional statement that an open discussion of matters to be discussed under Puipose 3 "may 
have a detrimental impact on the position of the School Committee" and that the Committee 
intended to reconvene in open session following the executive session. The Committee then 
approved a vote by roll call to convene in executive session. During the executive session, the 
Committee discussed the terms of two non-union personnel contracts, including the 
superintendent's contract, as well as the approval of a collective bargaining contract with the Fall 
River Educators Association (FREA). Upon reconvening in open session, the Committee 
executed employment contracts with the FREA, as well as with its employees, John Gomes and 
Pamela Nickerson. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, provided 
that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the puipose for the executive 
session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the puipose for which 
the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for 
N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 ("[a] precise statement of the reason for 
convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only 
notification given to the public that the school committee would conduct business in private, and 
the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper."). This 
level of detail about the executive session topic should also be included in the meeting notice. 
See G.L. e. 30A, §§ 20(b). One purpose for executive session is "[t]o conduct strategy sessions 
in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (Puipose 2). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The complainant challenges the sufficiency of the description of the executive session 
topic, "Request for Executive Session M.G.L. c30A Section 21 (a) (2) and (3) [t]o conduct 
strategy sessions in preparation for all litigation or grievances, as well as negotiations with 
custodians, paraprofessionals, clerical, FREA, FRAA, and non-union personnel including John 
Gomes- Behavior Therapist; Pamela Nickerson- Writer/Producer for FRED-TV & FRG-TV; and 
Meg Mayo-Brown- Superintendent of Schools," on the Committee's October 13, 2015 notice. 
The Committee's executive session discussion largely concerned strategy with respect to 
negotiation with two non-union employees- a behavioral therapist and the superintendent- who 
were properly identified in the notice and in the announcement prior to the executive session. 
The only other topic the Committee briefly discussed in executive session was about the 
approval of a contract with the FREA, a collective bargaining unit. We conclude that the 
substantive executive session topics, read as a whole, are sufficiently detailed so that members of 
the public could understand that the Committee planned to discuss strategy sessions in 
preparation for the negotiation of contracts with certain union and non-union personnel, as 
identified. Therefore, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. However, we note that 
our office generally discourages the use of abbreviations or acronyms, such as FREA, on 
meeting notices, particularly where the acronym used is not widely understood by members of 
the public. See OML 2015-154.4 The Committee pledges to refrain from the use of acronyms 
on its meeting agendas going forward. 
The notice identified other matters that the Committee did not, in fact, discuss during the 
executive session. See OML 2016-4 (because a topic was not actually discussed during the 
meeting, the Open Meeting Law was not violated with respect to the sufficiency of those topics 
on the meeting notice). Accordingly, we find no violation with respect to the rest of the 
executive session topics listed on the notice. 
The complaint also alleges that the Committee conducted a performance evaluation 
"of contract employees" in executive session. We find that the Committee did not perform a 
performance evaluation of any employee during its October 13, 2015 meeting. To the extent that 
the Superintendent's performance was discussed, we find that it related directly to the renewal of 
her contract and had already been discussed several times over the previous year in open 
session.5 The metrics used to consider the renewal of her evaluation had been discussed during 
these open meetings. Additionally, some of the discussion directly related to terms that had been 
negotiated in the prior contract. Accordingly, the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in this regard. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this amended determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 The Committee conducted the Superintendent's performance evaluation during its September 8, 2014 meeting; 
discussed her goals during its March 2, 2015 meeting; and discussed her mid-year progress report during its August 
24, 2015 meeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: CJ Ferry 
Fall River School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 