===PAGE 1===
  THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
1 
 
July 29, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 93 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Ryan Ferrara 
Boxborough Town Administrator  
rferrara@boxborough-ma.gov 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Mr. Ferrara: 
 
This office received a complaint from Steven Ballard on January 14, 2020, alleging that 
the Boxborough Policy Advisory Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about 
November 5, 2019, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated November 18, 
2019.
1 The complaint alleges that the Committee deliberated outside of a properly posted 
meeting during the Boxborough Select Board’s (the “Board”) November 4 meeting.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when 
it deliberated at the Board’s November 4 meeting without first posting notice. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint; the Committee’s response; the 
request for further review; the meeting notice for the Board’s November 4 meeting; the meeting 
minutes and video recording of the Board’s November 4 meeting;
2 the Board’s meeting minutes 
of July 8, 2019, and February 10, 2020; and the Committee’s meeting minutes of January 22, 
2020.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 Hereinafter, all dates are in 2019, unless otherwise stated.  
2 The recording may be accessed at https://boxborough.vod.castus.tv/vod/?video=b9ec6b5c-729c-4261-aa9a-
0c10c45bcc93. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
  
FACTS  
 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a three-member public body; thus, two 
members constitute a quorum. The three members of Committee include Susan Bak, who is also 
a member of the Board; John Fallon, the Town Moderator; and Jennifer Campbell.  
 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on November 4. The meeting notice 
included the topic “Policy Advisory Committee Progress Update. A Quorum of the Policy 
Advisory Committee may be present.” The notice then listed six policies the Board anticipated 
discussing under this topic. The November 4 meeting was not posted as a joint meeting of the 
Board and Committee, and the Committee did not post its own meeting notice for November 4.  
 
All three members of the Committee were present at the November 4 meeting. Ms. Bak 
sat at the front of the room at a table with the rest of the Board. At the time the Board was ready 
to turn to the Committee’s update, Mr. Fallon had not yet arrived. The Board discussed waiting 
for Mr. Fallon to arrive before beginning the discussion of the policies; Mr. Fallon arrived 
shortly thereafter and sat with Ms. Campbell in the audience. The Board then proceeded to 
discuss the policies listed on the meeting notice. 
 
Discussion between and among the Board and the Committee regarding the various 
policies under consideration continued for approximately 45 minutes. During this discussion 
members of the Board and the Committee discussed the Committee’s work, the proposed 
changes, and brainstormed additional changes to various policies. All three members of the 
Committee participated in this discussion, and Ms. Bak, in her capacity as a member of the 
Board, moved to approve some of the policies. The discussion of the policies was free flowing, 
with Ms. Campbell and Mr. Fallon speaking freely without waiting to be recognized by the 
Board Chair.   
     
In response to this complaint, the Committee began posting its own meeting notices 
whenever it was scheduled to present to the Board. At its January 22, 2020, meeting, having 
completed its work, the Committee voted to disband. On February 10, 2020, the Board voted to 
disband the Committee as well.  
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in limited 
circumstances, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public” and that deliberations 
occur only during the public body’s properly noticed meetings. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a)-(b). The 
Open Meeting Law defines a “meeting” as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any 
matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Open Meeting Law excludes from 
the definition of “meeting,” however, the “attendance by a quorum of a public body at a meeting 
of another public body that has complied with the notice requirements of the open meeting law, 
so long as the visiting members communicate only by open participation in the meetings on 
those matters under discussion by the host body and do not deliberate.” Id. “Deliberation” is 
defined, in relevant part, as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
===PAGE 3===
3 
  
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction.” Id. The Open Meeting Law does not carve out an exception to the definition of 
“deliberation” for discussions that do not result in a decision or vote. See OML 2019-140.3 
Expression of an opinion on matters within a body’s jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is 
deliberation, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 2012-15; OML 2012-8. 
Finally, a “quorum” is defined as a simple majority of the members of the public body, unless 
otherwise provided. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
 
The Committee argues that its attendance at the Board’s November 4 meeting falls under 
the exception to the definition of meeting that allows the “attendance by a quorum of a public 
body at a meeting of another public body that has complied with the notice requirements of the 
open meeting law, so long as the visiting members communicate only by open participation in 
the meetings on those matters under discussion by the host body and do not deliberate.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. The Committee further argues that it did not deliberate during the November 4 Board 
meeting, but rather that Committee “members presented policies, provided information and 
answered questions.”4 
 
In evaluating whether members of a public body deliberated at another public body’s 
meeting, we look for indicia of deliberation such as whether the visiting body members were 
seated with the general public and whether they participated by open participation. See OML 
2020-18; OML 2016-117. Here, two of the three Committee members sat together in the 
audience and were clearly present at the meeting in their official capacity as Committee members 
to discuss the work of the Committee; they were not speaking in an individual capacity as 
members of the general public. See OML 2019-103; OML 2013-38; OML 2016-117; OML 
2011-16 (“When members of a public body attend a meeting or forum of another public body 
and participate as members of the public, communicating openly and not between or among a 
quorum of the public body, such communications do not constitute deliberation.”). In fact, the 
presence of a quorum of the Committee was anticipated and noted on the Board’s meeting 
notice, and the Board waited to begin its discussion of the policies under review until the full 
Committee was present to participate in the discussion. Moreover, the Committee did not merely 
present to the Board on matters that had been discussed and decided at a prior public meeting of 
the Committee, but rather engaged in active discussion about matters within the Committee’s 
jurisdiction. Overall, notwithstanding that two Committee members sat in the audience, the 
Committee members’ active participation lent the appearance and feel of a joint meeting of the 
Board and Committee. For these reasons, we find that the Committee deliberated at the 
November 4 meeting without first posting notice, in violation of the Open Meeting Law. See 
OML 2020-18; OML 2019-103; OML 2011-16; OML 2012-22.  
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 In the Committee’s response, the Town Administrator notes that, after the meeting at issue here, he spoke with an 
Assistant Attorney General in the Division of Open Government on its Open Meeting Law hotline and was told that, 
based on the facts he provided, it did not seem that a violation had occurred. During this discussion, our office 
explained that the definition of deliberation is broad. Our office further explained that, although it would depend on 
the specific facts, if the Committee was simply reporting on a discussion that had already taken place in a previous 
open meeting, this might not constitute deliberation. The Open Meeting Law hotline is offered as a service to the 
public to provide general guidance on the requirements of the Law; our office does not render advisory opinions 
outside of the complaint process.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
  
 
We acknowledge that in response to this complaint the Committee began posting its own 
meeting notices when it was scheduled to appear before the Board, and commend the Committee 
for pledging to comply with the notice posting requirements of the Open Meeting Law going 
forward.  
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged. Although the Committee has since disbanded, we order that, should the Committee be 
reconstituted, it shall comply with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future 
conduct may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the law. Although the Committee has 
since disbanded and we therefore do not order it to create its own meeting minutes for the 
November 4 meeting, we note that the Committee’s discussions are captured in detail in the 
Board’s minutes from that meeting. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Steven Ballard (via e-mail: ) 
 Wes Fowlks, Chair Boxborough Select  Board (via e-mail: wfowlks@boxborough-
ma.gov.) 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
