===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
December 20, 2022 
 
OML 2022 – 232  
 
    
BY EMAIL 
 
Donna Flaherty, Ed.D.  
Executive Director 
Accept Education Collaborative 
dflaherty@accept.org 
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Dr. Flaherty: 
 
This office received a complaint from Judy Brasier on June 15, 2022, alleging that the 
Accept Education Collaborative (the “Collaborative”) Board of Directors (the “Board”) and 
Finance Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 9, and you responded, on behalf of the 
Board and Committee, by letter dated May 25.1  The complaint alleges that Board and 
Committee did not post notice of their meetings; the Committee did not post minutes of its 
meetings; the complainant was given a fee estimate for responding to a public records request; 
and minutes of Board meetings were not timely posted online.
2   
 
After reviewing this matter, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting notice of its meetings to the Collaborative’s website only, without having first complied 
with the procedures in 940 CMR 29.03(1)(c) and (3) for adoption of an alternate posting method, 
and that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post notice of its meetings.  
We find that the Board and Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board and 
Committee’s response, and the complaint filed with our office for further review.  We also 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 202 2. 
2 The complaint requests a hearing “[b]ecause these are more than 5 complaints.”  Nothing in the Open Meeting 
Law entitles a complainant to a hearing when a complaint includes five allegations, nor when a complainant files  
five separate complaints, and we do not find that a hearing is necessary or appropriate in this case.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
reviewed meeting notices and minutes posted to the Collaborative’s website, and reviewed 
records on file with our office regarding adoption of an alternate notice posting method.  
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  The Collaborative is an “education collaborative” formed 
pursuant to General Laws Chapter 40, section 4E, to provide shared programs and services to the 
member school districts.  The members of the Collaborative include 14 public school districts: 
Ashland, Dover-Sherborn, Framingham, Franklin, Holliston, Hopkinton, Medfield, Medway, 
Millis, Natick, Needham, South Middlesex Regional Vocational Technical, Sudbury, and 
Wellesley.  The Board posts notice of its meetings as well as meeting minutes to the 
Collaborative’s website, https://accept.org/governance/.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, and include the date, time and place of the meeting, and a listing of topics 
that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  For 
meetings of a regional or district public body, notice shall be filed and posted in each city or 
town within the region or district in the manner prescribed for local public bodies of each such 
city or town.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c).  Alternatively, a regional or district public body may, by 
majority vote, adopt the regional or district public body's website as its official notice posting 
method.  940 CMR 29.03(3).  If a regional or district public body adopts a website as the 
alternative posting method, the public body must notify the Attorney General of adoption of the 
alternative method, including the website address where notices will be posted, and the most 
current notice posting method on file with the Attorney General must consistently be used.  940 
CMR 29.03(1)(c).  The Attorney General maintains a publicly available spreadsheet listing the 
websites used by public bodies that have notified the Attorney General of adoption of an 
alternative posting method.
3  Although public bodies are welcome to post notice of their 
meetings in multiple locations, each public body has one official notice posting location for 
purposes of complying with the Open Meeting Law.  See 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b)(3) & (c); OML 
2021-94; OML 2020-20. 4 
 
The complaint alleges that neither the Board nor the Committee publicly posted how the 
public could attend their meetings, whether remotely or in person.  Although we find that the 
Board posted notice of its meetings to the Collaborative’s website, under a “Meeting Agendas” 
link on the website’s “Governance” page, we have no record of ever receiving notice from the 
Board in accordance with 940 CMR 29.03(1)(c) that the Board adopted its website as an 
alternative posting method.  In the absence of such adoption and notification, the Board should 
have posted notice of each meeting in each of the 14 cities and towns it serves, in the manner 
used for public bodies within each such city and town.  The Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by posting notice of its meetings only to the Collaborative’s website.  We acknowledge that 
the Collaborative’s website likely is a more intuitive location for the public to look for the 
 
3 The spreadsheet is available on the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -open-meeting-law. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations are available on the Attorney General’s website, https://www mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Board’s meeting notices rather than on the individual municipalities’ websites or bulletin boards, 
and we recommend that the Board promptly vote to adopt the Collaborative’s website as its 
official notice posting method and notify our office that it has done so.   
 
With regard to notices for meetings of the Committee, the Committee acknowledges that 
until recently the Committee was not aware that it is a public body subject to the Open Meeting 
Law and had not posted notice of its meetings in accordance with the Open Meeting Law.  
Therefore, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post notice 
of its meetings.
5  We order the Committee to create minutes for as many meetings as it deems 
possible to the best of its ability, through whatever means are available, including the notes and 
recollections of the attendees.  In addition, to the extent the Committee engaged in email 
deliberation,
6 contrary to the requirements of the Open Meeting Law that all deliberation take 
place only during noticed meetings, it must publicly release all such emails, either by reading 
them aloud at an open meeting, or by attaching the emails to the minutes of an open meeting.  
See OML 2022-149; OML 2022-3. 
 
Finally, we decline to review the remaining allegations contained in the complaint.  The 
Divi
sion of Open Government’s statutory authority concerns compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The Open Meeting Law governs requests for meeting minutes, 
only.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22.  Requests for other types of documents, such as communications 
between Committee members, are governed by the Public Records Law.  See G.L. c. 66, § 10.  
Concerns about compliance with the Public Records Law should be directed to the Public 
Records Division in the Office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth.  Because the allegation in 
the complaint regarding a request for communications concerns compliance with the Public 
Records Law rather than the Open Meeting Law, we decline to review it.  See OML 2015-17; 
OML Declination 7-16-20 (Greater Lowell Technical School Committee); OML Declination 3-
11-15 (Wayland School Committee); OML Declination 8-9-13 (Southwick Board of Selectmen).  
Similarly, we decline to review allegations that the Board and Committee did not post their 
meeting minutes to a website.  The Open Meeting Law does not require that public bodies post 
their minutes to a website or elsewhere, but only that minutes be approved in a timely manner 
and made available within 10 days of a request.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); see also OML 2017-
98; OML 2017-25.  Because the allegations regarding a failure to post meeting minutes to the 
Collaborative’s website, if true, would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law, we 
 
5 We note that as a subcommittee of the Board, the Committee is not required to separately vote to adopt a website 
as its official notice posting method and to notify the Attorney General; we consider a public body’s adoption of a 
website as its official notice posting method to apply to all its subcommittees, even those later created.  Therefore, if 
the Board chooses to vote to adopt a website as its official notice posting location and notify our office that it has 
done so, such adoption will apply for notices of Committee meetings as well.  
6 The Open Meeting Law defines deliberation broadly to include any “oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling 
information or distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be 
discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.”   G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Open Meeting 
Law does not carve out an exception to the definition of “deliberation” for discussions that do not result in a 
decision or vote.  See OML 2020-93; OML 2020-160.  Likewise, a one-way communication from one public body 
member to a quorum on business within a body’s jurisdiction is deliberation, even if no other members respond.  See 
OML 2020-136. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
decline to review these allegations.  See O ML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority 
Board of Commissioners). 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board and C ommittee violated the Open 
Meeting Law.  We order the Board’s and Committee’s immediate and future compliance with 
the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board and Committee that a determination by our office 
of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We also order the Committee to create minutes for as many meetings as possible 
and to publicly release any emails in which Committee members deliberated outside of a noticed 
meeting, in accordance with the guidance provided above.  The Committee shall certify to our 
office within 90 days of the date of this letter that it has complied with this order.  See 940 CMR 
29.07(4). 
 
We now cons
ider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board or Committee.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
cc: Judy Brasier (via e- mail ) 
Susan Kustka, Chair, Accept Education Collaborative (via email: 
kustkas@holliston.k12.ma.us) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
