===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 20, 2016 
OML 2016-8 
Ellen Grieco 
Chair, Wayland School Committee 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Grieco: 
This office received a complaint from George Harris, dated October 27, 2015, alleging 
that the Wayland School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Committee deliberated outside of a 
noticed meeting between 2010 and 2013 to discuss litigation.1 The complaint was originally 
filed with the Committee on August 11, 2015. The Committee responded by letter dated 
September 9, 2015, following an extension of time granted by our office. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Committee, the 
Committee's response, and the complaint filed with our office. We also reviewed a letter from 
Committee Chair Ellen Grieco, addressed to our office, dated November 16, 2015.2 We 
reviewed letters from George Harris addressed to our office, dated December 1, 2015 and 
December 3, 2015. We reviewed an email from Committee member Donna Bouchard, addressed 
to our office, dated December 2, 2015. Finally, we spoke with former Committee Chair Barbara 
Fletcher by telephone on January 11, 2016. 
1 Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body that is alleged to have 
violated the law within 30 days of the alleged violation, or within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have been 
discovered. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3). Mr. Harris filed his complaint within 30 days of the response 
to his request for the minutes of the executive session during which the Committee discussed this particular 
litigation. Because Mr. Harris filed his complaint within 30 days of that response, we consider this complaint to be 
timely. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On May 17, 2010, the Superintendent of Wayland Public 
Schools met with the Committee in executive session to discuss possible legal action stemming 
from a complaint by former Athletic Director Martha Jamieson. The Committee discussed the 
possible litigation again in executive session on May 24, 2010. On June 8, 2010, the Town of 
Wayland received acknowledgment from its insurer, Massachusetts Interlocal Insurance 
Association (MIIA), of receipt of correspondence regarding possible legal action. Ms. Jamieson 
commenced a lawsuit against the Wayland Public Schools and the Committee on July 27, 2011. 
MIIA retained an outside law firm to defend the lawsuit against the Town and the Committee. 
MIIA determined that a settlement was more cost effective than defending the lawsuit. MIIA's 
attorney, in consultation with the Wayland Town Administrator, negotiated the settlement with 
Ms. Jamieson's attorney. The case settled on December 29, 2012. The Committee Chair at the 
time, Barbara Fletcher, signed the settlement agreement on behalf of the Committee. 
Aside from the two 2010 executive sessions, the Committee did not discuss the Jamieson 
lawsuit. In his complaint filed with our office, Mr. Harris writes that, "I have asked all 
[Committee] members, other than [former Chair Barbara Fletcher], when they first learned of the 
lawsuit. They have all said (by phone or in writing) that they do not recall the Jamieson lawsuit 
while they were members of the Committee." In her November 16, 2015 letter to our office, 
Committee Chair Ellen Grieco writes that, "all persons who might have been at such [private] 
meetings have stated unequivocally that they do not recall any such meetings being held." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines "meeting" as "a deliberation by a public body 
with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is 
defined, in relevant part, as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id. A "quorum" is defined as "a simple majority of the members of the public 
body, unless otherwise provided in a general or special law, executive order or other authorizing 
provision." Id. 
The Committee members deny that they discussed the Jamieson lawsuit outside of a 
noticed meeting. The Committee discussed the lawsuit at issue twice in 2010 while in executive 
session. The lawsuit defense was handled by outside counsel, in consultation with the Town 
Administrator. When the Town reached a settlement, former Chair Barbara Fletcher signed the 
agreement on behalf of the Committee.3 In the absence of evidence to the contrary, we credit the 
Committee's explanation of events and find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
3 We make no finding as to whether the Chair was authorized to act on behalf of the Committee. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We now consider 
this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve any other complaints that 
may be pending with this office or with the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at 
617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
onathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: George Harris 
Mark Lanza, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 