===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
April 24, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 61  
 
 
Patrick J. Costello, Esq. 
Louison, Costello, Condon & Pfaff, LLP 
Ten Post Office Square, Suite 1330 
Boston, MA 02109 
 
By email only: pcostello@lccplaw.com  
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Costello: 
 
This office received a complaint from Meredith Kilpatrick on September 26, 2022, 
alleging that the Mashpee Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Commission 
on August 31, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Commission, by letter dated 
September 23.  The complaint alleges that the Commission discussed a topic that was not 
sufficiently detailed on the notice for its August 25 meeting. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Commission’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review.  We also reviewed the notices and video recordings of the Commission meetings 
held on August 25 and September 8.
2  
 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2022. 
2 A video recording of the Commission meeting held on August 25 is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=98cGchdW164; a video recording of the Commission meeting held on 
September 8 is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hLVCC5Hf8-g. 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Commission posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
August 25 at 6:00 P.M.  The notice listed three main topic headings – “Call Meeting to Order,” 
“Pre/Post-Hearing Agenda” and “Hearings.”  Three additional topics were listed under 
“Pre/Post-Hearing Agenda,” including “Approval of Minutes,” “Updates” and “Additional 
Topics.”  The notice then listed seven specific item descriptions that further advised the public of 
the topics to be discussed under “Updates,” one of which was Bylaw Review subcommittee.   
 
The August 25 meeting was held as planned.  The Board approved two sets of meeting 
minut
es and then held five public hearings.  At the conclusion of the hearings, the Conservation 
Agent provided updates to the Commission on the replacement of the Red Brook Road culvert, 
the restoration of the upper Quashnet River, the treatment of milfoil aquatic plants at Johns and 
Santuit ponds, and the conversion of Chop Chaque bog to wetlands.  The Conservation Agent 
stated that the next meeting of the Bylaw Review Subcommittee would be on September 1 and 
asked if any Commission members would like to join the Land Acquisition Subcommittee.  
Finally, the Conservation Agent talked about the proposed amendments to the Chapter 172 
wetland bylaw and explained that the amendments increased the wetland buffer zone and 
restricted the use of fertilizer containing nitrogen and phosphorous.  The Board discussed the 
proposed amendments for approximately ten minutes and authorized the Conservation Agent to 
provide comments and clarification language to the Select Board with respect to the Chapter 172 
bylaw article for inclusion on the Town Meeting warrant. 
 
The C
ommission posted notice for a meeting to be held on September 8 at 6:00 P.M.  
Once again, the notice listed “Updates” as a topic header under which ten specific item 
descriptions were listed that further advised the public of the topic to be discussed.  One topic 
listed under this header was “Bylaw Review subcommittee/Updates on proposed Ch. 172 
amendments for the October 2022 Town Meeting.” 
  
The September 8 meeting was held as planned and the Commission received updates 
from
 the Conservation Agent on various ongoing projects including the replacement of the Red 
Brook Road culvert, the restoration of the upper Quashnet River, the treatment of milfoil aquatic 
plants at Johns and Santuit ponds, and the conversion of Chop Chaque bog to wetlands.  The 
Conservation Agent again discussed the proposed amendments to the Chapter 172 wetland bylaw 
including the increase to the wetland buffer zone and the restriction on the use of fertilizer 
containing nitrogen and phosphorous.  In addition, the Commission discussed the Open Meeting 
Law complaint at issue here and voted to refer the complaint to town legal counsel for response. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notic
e of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Id.  The list of topics 
shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35; OML 2013-39.
3   
 
The complaint alleges that the notice for the Commission meeting held on August 25 was 
insu
fficiently specific because it did not reference the wetland bylaw article that the Commission 
planned to discuss.  The Commission suggests that the “Bylaw Review subcommittee” topic 
listed under “Updates” provided sufficient specificity and advised the public of the 
Commission’s anticipated discussion regarding the warrant article.  When reviewing a meeting 
notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting 
notice standing alone.  See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155.  Rather, we review what was 
actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently detailed to make the 
public aware of the discussion topics.   
 
Although we disagree that the notice topic “Bylaw Review subcommittee” reasonably 
notif
ied the public of the Commission’s discussion of the Chapter 172 wetland bylaw article, we 
do not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law because the Commission maintains that the 
Commission Chair did not anticipate the discussion of the bylaw article during the August 25 
meeting.  A public body may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not 
reasonably anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting.  See OML 2017-2; OML 
2013-87.  Here, the Conservation Agent brought up the proposed amendments to the Chapter 172 
wetland bylaw as his final update to the Commission.  As such, we find that the notice was 
sufficiently specific to inform the public of the Commission’s anticipated discussions during the 
August 25 meeting.   
 
We take this opportunity to note that while a public body may consider a topic at a 
meetin
g that was not listed in the notice if it was not reasonably anticipated at least 48 hours 
before the meeting, we encourage public bodies to postpone discussion of topics that were not 
listed in the meeting notice until the topic may be included in a meeting notice, unless the 
circumstances demand immediate action by the public body.  See OML 2011-23; OML 2013-
197.   
 
We note that the Commission specifically included the Chapt
 er 172 wetland bylaw article 
on its September 8 meeting notice and again discussed the proposed amendments to the wetland 
bylaw during this meeting.  See OML 2013-8; OML 2011-7 (where a public body anticipates 
discussing specific Town Meeting warrant articles, it must specifically list them in its meeting 
notice).  Ultimately, the wetland bylaw article was removed from the warrant for the Fall Town 
Meeting in order to refine the proposed article with greater detail and explanation.  
 
With respect to the concerns raised in the complaint that the Commission did not allow 
for publ
ic participation during the August 25 meeting, the Open Meeting Law does not require 
that a public body allow public participation in its meetings, but rather provides that “[n]o person 
shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at 
the request of the chair, be silent.”  G.L. c. 30A § 20(f); see also OML 2021-27; OML 2020-161; 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https: //www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
OML 2017-189; OML 2014-23; OML 2012-78.  As such, the law gives the chair of the public 
body discr
etion to decide who may speak or otherwise participate during a meeting.  See OML 
2017-189; OML 2014-23; OML 2012-78.  Thus, it is not a violation of the Open Meeting Law if 
the chair decides not to allow any public participation during a meeting.  Moreover, it is not a 
violation of the law for a public body to discuss or vote on a topic without first taking comments 
from the public.  See OML 2022-109; OML 2019-2.  We do, however, encourage public bodies 
to allow for as much public participation as time and circumstances permit.  See OML 2015-12; 
OML 2014-129; OML 2012-59.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Commission or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Meredith Kilpatrick – By email only:   
Mashpee Conservation Commission c/o Andrew McManus, Conservation Agent – By 
email only: amcmanus@mashpeema.gov 
 Mashpee Town Clerk – By email only: ddami@mashpeema.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
