===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 3, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 192 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Cheryl Bogle  
Chair, Swansea Historical Commission  
integracrete2@gmail.com 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Bogle: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on March 21, 2023,
1 alleging that 
the Swansea Historical Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on or about March 3, 
and you responded on behalf of the Commission by letter dated March 20. The complaint alleges 
that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to identify on the notice for its 
February 28 meeting the specific meeting minutes to be reviewed. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, 
the Commission’s response, the request for further review, and the notice and minutes for the 
Commission’s February 28 meeting.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting” and that every notice include “the date, time and place of such 
meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics on a notice with 
“sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35.2 
 
Here, notice for the Commission’s February 28 meeting included the topic “Review 
meeting minutes from Last Meeting.” The Commission’s previous meeting was held on February 
11. During the Commission’s February 28 meeting it reviewed and approved the minutes of its 
February 11 meeting. We find that the topic listed on the notice with respect to the approval of 
minutes provided the public with sufficient information where it identified the specific minutes 
that the Council anticipated approving during the meeting, that is, the minutes from its last 
meeting. See OML 2021-57. Although we find no violation here, we commend the Commission 
for committing to including the date of the minutes it will review on its meeting notices going 
forward. 
 
We note that OML 2021-57 cited above resolved another complaint filed by the 
Complainant raising, in part, the same allegation as was raised here. Where this office has 
previously explained in another determination to the Complainant that such circumstances as 
were present here do not violate the Open Meeting Law, we discourage the complainant from 
filing Open Meeting Law complaints containing such allegations. Filing complaints containing 
frivolous allegations wastes both municipal and Commonwealth resources. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Commission 
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,     
   
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Diane Pelland, Town Clerk (via email: dpelland@swanseama.gov)  
Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
