===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 9,2016 
OML 2016-102 
Nancy E. Glowa 
City Solicitor 
City of Cambridge 
795 Massachusetts Avenue 
Cambridge, MA 02139 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Glowa: 
This office received a complaint from Don Warner Saklad, dated June 15, alleging that 
the Cambridge Broadband Task Force (the "CBTF") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the CBTF on May 24, and the CBTF 
responded by letter dated June 10. In his complaint, Mr. Saklad alleges that the CBTF violated 
the Open Meeting Law by failing to create or provide minutes of its open meetings. 
Following our review, we find that the CBTF is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, and that it violated the Law by failing to create or provide meeting minutes. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the CBTF's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. In addition, we reviewed copies of the minutes 
from the Cambridge City Council's meetings held on January 27, 2014 and March 24, 2014. We 
also reviewed a letter from the City Solicitor dated July 15, 2016.2 
We find the facts as follows. On March 24, 2014, the Cambridge City Council held a 
meeting where it ordered the City Manager "to appoint a task force composed of experts, 
residents, the Cambridge Housing Authority, and representatives from the local universities" to 
develop "a municipal broadband proposal for Cambridge." Moreover, the City Council ordered 
the City Manager "to confer with the task force to hire necessary consultants" to aid in 
"feasibility research" as part of the municipal broadband proposal. On October 22, 2014, the 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letterreferto the year2016, 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
City Manager created the CBTF and appointed fourteen individuals from the education, 
technology, civic, and business communities to examine and evaluate various aspects of 
broadband service and access in the City. 
The CBTF serves as an advisory body to the City Manager. It has no quorum 
requirements for its meetings and it has never taken formal votes. No CBTF member acts as a 
chair. Instead, an employee from the City Manager's office opens and conducts the meetings. 
The CBTF is responsible for collecting information and data on the City's broadband service and 
providing a final report to the City Manager, but it has no authority to make official decisions for 
the City or to make recommendations to the City Council. The City Manager will present any 
information or recommendations regarding the final municipal broadband proposal to the City 
Council at his discretion, but does so upon the advice and input of the CBTF and hired 
consultants. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to "create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). A "public body" is defined in relevant part as any 
"multiple-member board, commission, committee or subcommittee . . . however created, elected, 
appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose." Id. at § 18. To 
determine whether a multi-member entity is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, 
there are three factors we consider which apply to all public bodies: 
1. The entity must be "within" government and not excluded from the definition of 
"public body"; 
2. The entity must be a "body" empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a "public purpose." 
See OML 2012-20; OML 2011-42; OML 2010-1.3 
Here, the CBTF is within government because it was created by the City Manager at the 
direction of the City Council. It also serves a public pmpose: gathering and analyzing 
information on the City's broadband service. With respect to the final prong, the CBTF contends 
that it is not a body empowered to act collectively, and thus is not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law. We disagree. The CBTF shares similarities with some informal focus 
groups that we have previously held are not public bodies, such as a lack of a quorum 
requirement, a lack of formal votes, and the absence of formal recommendations to a public 
body. See OML 2013-56; OML 2012-20. But unlike these informal focus groups, the CBTF is 
structured for collective action. Specifically, the CBTF is tasked with compiling and analyzing 
information and then working collaboratively to provide a final written report on the City's 
broadband service. In the past, we have held that similar conduct constituted collective action by 
a public body. See OML 2015-46. While the CBTF does not take votes and reports only to the 
City Manager, rather than to the City Council, the CBTF provides information and policy 
recommendations on a matter within the City Council's jurisdiction. The CBTF satisfies all 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
three factors for being a public body, and thus we find that the CBTF is subject to the Open 
Meeting Law. Therefore, because the CBTF is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, 
we find that it violated the law by failing to create or provide meeting minutes. 
The CBTF also contends that it is not a public body because it is a body appointed by the 
City Manager "solely for the purpose of advising" him. We note the existence of a judicially-
recognized exception to the definition of "public body" under the Open Meeting Law. The 
Supreme Judicial Court held in Connelly v. School Committee of Flanover, 409 Mass. 232, 235 
(1991), that where an individual public official creates a committee to advise that person on a 
decision that the official has the sole authority to make, that committee is not subject to the Open 
Meeting Law. Had the City Manager created the CBTF of his own volition, then the body would 
likely have fit within the Connelly exception because it would have been created by an 
individual public official to advise him in a decision that he retained the sole authority to make— 
that is, creating a final municipal broadband proposal to present to the City Council. See OML 
2015-93; OML 2014-56. The distinction here, however, is that the City Manager did not create 
the CBTF of his own volition, but was rather ordered by the City Council to create the body for a 
specific purpose. Therefore, because a public body ordered the creation of the CBTF, rather than 
an individual public official, the CBTF does not fall within the Connelly exception. 
We take this opportunity to remind the CBTF of its obligations under the Open Meeting 
Law going forward. Notice of every meeting must be posted "at least 48 hours prior to such 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays" and every notice shall include "the 
date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed at the meeting." G.L c. 30A, § 20(b). A public body is also required to "create 
and maintain minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time 
and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and actions taken at each 
meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Finally, all members of a 
public body must review the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Guide and certify in writing 
that they have reviewed the Guide.4 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the CBTF is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, and thus violated the Law by failing to comply with its requirements. We order 
immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar future 
violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Further, we order the CBTF 
to create minutes for all previous meetings to the best of its ability, through whatever means are 
available, including the memories and individual notations of the attendees. Compliance with 
this order should occur within sixty (60) days of the CBTF's receipt of this letter. 
4 The Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Guide can be found here: 
http://w\vw, mass.gov/ago/docs/governnient/oml/oml-guide.pdf. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
CBTF. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Don Warner Saklad 
Cambridge Broadband Task Force 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 