===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 2, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 53 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Mark R. Reich, Esq. 
KP Law 
mreich@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Reich: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick McPhee on December 29, 2022, alleging 
that the Ashby Cable Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or around November 
25, 2022.
1  The Committee did not formally respond to the complaint as all members had 
resigned several months before the complaint was filed; however, the Committee’s former chair 
and the town clerk provided information regarding the complaint.  The complaint alleges that the 
Committee held several meetings without posting notices or creating minutes. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint and the complainant’s request 
for further review.  In addition, we reviewed email correspondence from the Committee’s former 
chair Garry Baer, Town Clerk Angela Jack, and Administrative Assistant to the Town 
Administrator Jill Blood.  We also reviewed a posting for a February 17 Committee meeting.  
Finally, we spoke with the complainant by phone.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  In or around February 2022, the Ashby Select Board 
appointed three members to the Committee for the purpose of overseeing negotiations of the 
Town’s cable television license with Comcast.  Around the same time, the Select Board hired 
Christine Lindberg as its town administrator.  On February 14, the Committee posted notice of a 
meeting to take place on February 17.  The Committee convened the February 17 meeting as 
scheduled with all three members present; the complainant attended the meeting.  At the start of 
 
1 All dates refer to the year 2022. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
the meeting, then-Town Administrator Lindberg explained that in her experience working in 
other towns, the town administrator typically oversees negotiations of the cable agreement.  She 
requested that the Committee hold off on taking action while she gets settled in her new position 
and considers the appropriate approach.  After some discussion, the Committee agreed and 
adjourned its meeting without taking any formal action.  The Committee did not hold any 
additional meetings or take any other action.  In May, all three members of the Committee 
resigned though the Select Board did not formally disband the Committee.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
 
In a
ddition, the Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain 
accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and 
place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The meeting minutes 
must be reviewed and approved in a timely manner.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  The Open Meeting 
Law itself does not define “timely manner.”  However, the Attorney General’s Open Meeting 
Law regulations provide that “timely manner” means “within the next three public body 
meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for 
further delay.” 940 C.M.R. 29.11(2).  “The minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether 
approved or in draft form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 
days.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).   
 
The Open Meeting Law defines a “meeti
 ng” as “a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction,” with limited exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  
“Deliberation” is further defined as “an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business 
within its jurisdiction,” with limited exceptions.  Id. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee did not post notices or minutes of any 
meetings.  After review and based on further communications with the complainant, the 
Committee’s former chair, and staff members, there is no dispute that the Committee indeed 
posted notice for the February 17 meeting.  The complainant has not asserted that any other 
meetings took place.  Therefore, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law with respect to 
meeting notices. 
 
There also is no dispute that the Committee did not create or approve minutes for the 
February 17 meeting.  The Committee’s former chair explained that he did not believe a 
===PAGE 3===
"meeting" took place that required the creation of meeting minutes, since, at the request of the
town administrator, the Committee took no action during the February 17 meeting. Although we
have previously explained that a public body that calls a meeting to order and then immediately
adjourns without discussion or action did not hold a "meeting" necessitating the creation of
minutes, see OML 2022-159,2 that is not what occurred here. Rather, the Committee engaged in
discussion with the town administrator regarding the cable contract, including discussion of
possibly retaining legal counsel, before agreeing not to take any action while the town
administrator considered a course of action. Therefore, we find that the Committee held a
meeting on February 17.
Nonetheless, we do not find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by
failing to create and approve minutes for the February 17 meeting. The Open Meeting Law and
regulations require that meeting minutes be approved within the later of the public body's next
three meetings or 30 days. 940 C.M.R. 29.11(2). Although over two years have passed since the
meeting in question, because the Committee never held another meeting we are constrained to
find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We recommend, to the extent
possible, that the Committee or the Select Board create and approve minutes for the Committee's
February 17 meeting, and we remind the Committee that even draft minutes must be made
available upon request, if they exist.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or
the Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any
questions.
Sincerely,
Carie Benedon
Carrie Benedon
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
cc:
Patrick McPhee (via email:
Garry Baer (via email:
Ashby Town Clerk (via email: tclerk@ashbyma.gov)
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website,
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3 The complainant contends that Jason Baer, a former Committee member, took notes during the February 17
meeting that may constitute draft meeting minutes. Handwritten notes, depending on the condition they are in, may
be considered draft minutes that need to be made available upon request. See OML 2018-117; OML 2013-131;
OML 2013-64; OML 2013-31. Furthermore, "notes... or other materials used in the preparation of minutes" are
public records in their entirety. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e).
3
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 