===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 3, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 153 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Robert Hanson 
Town of Ashby Administrator 
   
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Hanson: 
This office received two complaints from Patrick McPhee on December 2 and 8, 2020,1 
alleging that the Town of Ashby (the “Town”) Selectboard (the “Board”) and the Ashby Public 
Safety Building Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaints were originally filed on November 9 and December 2, and you responded 
on behalf of the Board and Committee by email on December 2.2 We understand the complaints 
to allege that 1) the Board posted insufficient notices for meetings held on October 14, October 
28, and December 2; and 2) the Committee posted insufficient notices for meetings held on 
November 9 and December 2.3 
 
1 All dates are in 2020, unless otherwise stated. 
2 It is unclear whether the Board or the Committee met to review the complaints at issue here and delegate authority 
to the Town Administrator to respond to those complaints. We remind the Board and the Committee that a public 
body has 14 business days from the receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint to meet to review and respond to the 
complaint. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). A public body may delegate authority to respond to a 
complaint to legal counsel or other individual such as a town administrator, but the public body must first meet to 
review the complaint. OML 2020-164 (“The Board may review the complaint at a meeting and then authorize the 
Administrator to prepare and send the response, or the Administrator may receive the complaint and draft a response 
for the Board to review at a meeting, but the Board may not remove itself entirely from the process.”). Whether a 
public body decides to delegate authority to respond or decides to respond on its own behalf, the response is due 
within 14 business days after receipt of the complaint. If a public body anticipates needing additional time to 
respond, it can request an extension of time from our office prior to the expiration of the 14 business days. G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(6).     
3 To the extent the November 9 complaint alleges that the Board did not provide enough information during its 
meeting with respect to vendor invoices prior to approving them, we decline to review this allegation as it does not 
 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters. Following our 
review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by including an 
insufficiently specific topic on the notice for its December 2 meeting. We find that the Board and 
the Committee did not otherwise violate the Law. In reaching this determination we reviewed the 
Open Meeting Law complaints; the responses submitted on behalf of the Board and Committee; 
the requests for further review; video recordings of the Board’s October 14 and 28 meetings; a 
video recording of the Board and Committee’s December 2 joint meeting; the minutes of the 
Committee’s November 9 meeting; the notices for the Board’s October 14, October 28, and 
December 2 meetings; and the notices for the Committee’s November 9 and December 2 
meetings.4 We also communicated with the Town Clerk and the Assistant Town Administrator. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. 
 
The Board’s October 14 and 28 Meetings 
  
The Board posted notices for meetings to be held on October 14 and 28.5 Relevant here, 
the notices each included the topic “Selectmen Approve and Sign on Payroll and Vendor 
Warrants.” Payroll and vendor warrants are processed every two weeks by the Town’s 
Accounting Department. All payments are reviewed and approved by the Town’s Certified 
Accountant, and then approved at the Board’s next regularly scheduled meeting. Each payroll 
warrant contains numerous payments to multiple Town employees, and each vendor warrant 
contains numerous payments to multiple vendors for any invoices that were submitted for 
payment in that warrant period. 
 
During the Board’s meetings held on October 14 and 28, under the topic “Selectmen 
Approve and Sign on Payroll and Vendor Warrants,” the Chair moved to approve payroll and 
vendor warrants, referring to each warrant by a number and amount. Aside from the Chair 
announcing the warrant number and amount, the Board did not discuss any of the warrants 
before voting to approve them.6 
 
allege a violation of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2020-27; OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing 
Authority Board of Commissioners). For the same reason, to the extent the December 2 complaint alleges that the 
Board or the Committee did not have authority to take certain action, we decline to review this allegation. Likewise, 
to the extent the December 2 complaint alleges that, in general, the Board and Committee fail to post sufficiently 
specific meeting notices, we decline to review this allegation. See OML 2021-89 (“Complainants must allege 
violations with a degree of specificity, as our office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on 
generalized allegations.”).   
4 Recordings of the Board’s meetings may be found at https://ci.ashby.ma.us/departments/selectboard/selectboard-
meeting-agendas-and-minutes/#2020. 
5 We note that the notices for the Board’s October 14 and 28 meetings, and the notice for the Committee’s 
November 9 meeting did not include the date and time they were posted, and that the Committee’s notice for the 
December 2 joint meeting did not include the time it was posted. We remind the Board and the Committee that the 
Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations require that the date and time that a meeting notice is posted be 
conspicuously recorded on or with the notice. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(d).   
6 We note that when one or more members of a public body participates in a meeting remotely, all votes must be 
taken by roll call. 940 CMR 29.10(7)(c); see also OML 2021-9. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The Committee and Its November 9 Meeting 
 
At the May 5, 2018, Town Meeting, the Town voted to raise and appropriate the sum of 
$540,000 for the purpose of providing final planning, final design, construction plans, and bid 
services for the development of a public safety building. The Committee, acting through the 
Board, is responsible for the selection and oversight of design and construction professionals to 
study, design, bid, and construct the public safety building.  
 
The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on November 9. Relevant here, the 
notice included the following topics, “Invoices, Payments, Contracts” and “Special Town 
Meeting Preparations.” During the Committee’s November 9 meeting, the Committee did not 
discuss any invoices, payments, or contracts. Under the topic “Special Town Meeting 
Preparations,” the Committee discussed that the special town meeting was the result of a 
citizens’ petition; that the Committee should be prepared to speak at the special town meeting 
but would not make a formal presentation; who should answer questions regarding specific 
topics; and that design meetings should continue in the meantime.  
 
The Board and Committee’s Joint Meeting on December 2 
 
 At some point after the May 5, 2018, Town Meeting, the Town contracted with various 
vendors to prepare plan drawings and take steps necessary to prepare for the bidding process. 
The contracts for these services allowed the services to be completed up to 90%. On November 
30, the Board and the Committee each posted separate notices for a joint meeting to be held on 
December 2 to discuss the possibility of accelerating the drafting and bidding process by 
allowing the contracted services to be completed up to 100%, rather than the 90% originally 
contracted for. Among other topics, the Board’s notice included the topic “3. Public Safety 
Building - discussion re: amending existing contract(s) to reflect change from 90% to 100% of 
drawing preparation, as well as preparation for the bidding process. (PSBC will also be 
present).” The Committee’s notice included the statement “At the request of the Selectboard the 
Public Safety Building Committee will meet to discuss the project schedule and activities 
planned over the next few months,” and included one substantive topic—“Design & Bidding 
Schedule.” 
 
During the December 2 meeting, the Board, the Committee, the project architect, and 
various members of the public, including the Complainant, discussed at length the pros and cons 
of allowing the contractors to move forward to complete the plan drawings and preparations for 
the bidding process to 100%. After over an hour and a half of discussion, the Board voted to 
amend the contracts to allow the plan drawings and preparations for the bidding process to be 
completed 100%. After the Board passed its motion, the Committee adjourned its meeting, and 
the Board proceeded with the remainder of its meeting.  
 
At the Town’s Special Election held on January 12, 2021, voters authorized the Town to 
raise the funds necessary for the public safety building project.  
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Meeting notices must 
contain the date, time, and place7 of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The list of topics shall have 
“sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35.8 Generally, “generic item[s] will typically fail 
to meet the specificity standards of the Open Meeting Law.” OML 2019-92. When reviewing a 
meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a 
meeting notice standing alone. See OML 2016-149; OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155. Rather, we 
review what was actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently 
specific to make the public aware of the discussion topics. See OML 2016-149. 
 
Two or more public bodies may hold a joint meeting. However, each public body 
participating in the meeting must provide notice pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 20. The public bodies 
must provide independent notice of their meetings, or if posting a single notice, must clearly 
state that each public body will be meeting.  
 
I. The Board and the Committee Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law When They 
Held Votes Without Specifying on Their Meeting Notices That Votes May Be Taken.  
 
Both the November 9 and December 2 complaints allege that the Board and the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to indicate on their meeting notices that 
votes may be taken. Although it is good practice for a notice to specify that a vote will be taken 
when a vote is indeed anticipated, the Open Meeting Law does not require this. See OML 2015-
66. It is reasonably foreseeable that a public body may take action and hold a vote following 
discussion of a topic listed on a meeting notice. See OML 2019-36; OML 2015-66; OML 2012-
75. Therefore, we find that the Board and the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
when they held votes without specifying on their meeting notices that votes may be taken.  
 
II. The Notice Topic “Selectmen Approve and Sign on Payroll and Vendor Warrants” 
Included on the Notices for the Board’s October 14 and 28 Meetings Was Sufficiently 
Specific.   
 
The November 9 complaint alleges that the notices for the Board’s October 14 and 28 
meetings were insufficient where they did not identify the specific vendors to be paid under the 
notice topic “Selectmen Approve and Sign on Payroll and Vendor Warrants.” We find that the 
 
7 We note that the meeting notices at issue here do not include access information for the meetings. We remind the 
Board and the Committee that if for security reasons a public body chooses not to include access information on its 
meeting notice, then the meeting notice must include clear contact information instructing members of the public 
how they can obtain the meeting access information, and members of the public must be able to obtain the access 
information up to and throughout the duration of the meeting. See OML 2020-102.   
8 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
notice topic “Selectmen Approve and Sign on Payroll and Vendor Warrants” was sufficiently 
specific to comply with the Law. In general, the approval of payroll and vendor warrants (i.e., 
approving the payment of expenses) is a standard administrative task that municipal governments 
engage in. Additionally, during the October 14 and 28 meetings the Board did not discuss the 
payroll or vendor warrants in detail, but rather the Chair read out the warrant numbers and 
amounts, and then the Board voted to approve the warrants. In these ways, the approval of the 
payroll and vendor warrants was akin to the approval of a consent agenda, which we have said 
does not need to identify the specific bills to be paid. See OML 2019-161; OML 2019-69. We 
find here that the notice topic “Selectmen Approve and Sign on Payroll and Vendor Warrants” 
reasonably informed the public of what was anticipated to occur at the meeting.     
 
III. The Topics Listed on the Notice for the Committee’s November 9 Meeting Were 
Sufficiently Specific in Relevant Respects. 
 
The November 9 complaint alleges that the notice for the Committee’s November 9 
meeting was insufficient where it did not include more detail with respect to the notice topics 
“Invoices, Payments, Contracts” and “Special Town Meeting Preparations.” First, we find that 
the Committee did not actually discuss any invoices, payments, or contracts during the 
November 9 meeting. Where a public body does not actually engage in any deliberation on a 
particular topic, it cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the sufficiency of the 
meeting notice. See OML 2016-76; OML 2018-22. 
 
Second, we find that during the Committee’s November 9 meeting, the Committee 
engaged in a general discussion of the upcoming Special Town Meeting and the Committee’s 
role at the Special Town Meeting. We find that the notice topic “Special Town Meeting 
Preparations” was sufficiently specific to notify the public that the Committee would hold a 
general discussion about the Special Town Meeting and the Committee’s preparation for the 
same. We note that if the Committee Chair had anticipated, and the Committee had engaged in, 
discussion of particular aspects of Town Meeting, such as discussion regarding the merits of 
particular Town Meeting warrant articles under consideration, the notice may have been required 
to include such additional specificity. Here, however, when reviewing the sufficiency of the 
meeting notice in light of what was actually discussed at the meeting, we find that the topic 
“Special Town Meeting Preparation” was sufficiently specific, and the Committee did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law with respect to this notice topic. 
 
IV. The Board and the Committee Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law When They 
Posted Separate Notices for a Joint Meeting to Be Held on December 2, But the 
Committee’s Notice Was Insufficiently Specific.   
 
We understand the December 2 complaint to allege that 1) the Board and the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law by posting sperate notices for a joint meeting held on December 
2, and 2) the topic “Design & Bidding Schedule” included on the Committee’s notice was 
insufficiently specific. When two public bodies will meet jointly, they may either post separate 
notices for the meeting that comply with G.L. c. 30A, § 20, or they may post a single notice that 
makes clear the two bodies will meet jointly. See OML 2021-120. Here, the Board and the 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
Committee decided to post separate notices for the December 2 meeting. We find no violation of 
the Open Meeting Law in this regard. 
 
Because the Board and the Committee opted to post separate notices for the joint 
December 2 meeting, each notice was required to include the detail and specificity required by 
the Law. We find that the Board’s notice was adequate, but the Committee’s notice was not. 
With respect to the Committee’s notice for the December 2 meeting, we find that the description 
“At the request of the Selectboard the Public Safety Building Committee will meet to discuss the 
project schedule and activities planned over the next few months . . . Design & Bidding 
Schedule” was insufficiently specific to fully inform the public of the nature of the Committee’s 
anticipated discussion for the December 2 meeting. Therefore, the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently specific notice for its December 2 meeting. On the 
other hand, the corresponding topic on the Board’s notice for the December 2 meeting, “Public 
Safety Building - discussion re: amending existing contract(s) to reflect change from 90% to 
100% of drawing preparation, as well as preparation for the bidding process,” was sufficiently 
specific.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by including an insufficiently specific topic on the notice for its December 2 meeting. We order 
the Committee’s immediate and future compliance, and caution that similar future violations 
may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. We find that the Committee did not 
otherwise violate the Law, and that the Board did not violate the Law.  
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board, the 
Committee, or our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Dave Nadeau, Chair of the Ashby Selectboard (via email:  
Mike Reggio, Chair of the Ashby Public Safety Building Committee (via email: 
) 
Jennifer Collins, Ashby Assistant Town Administrator (via  
Angela Jack, Ashby Town Clerk (via email:  
Patrick McPhee (via e-mail:  

===PAGE 7===
7 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 