===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 18, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 125 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
J. Elliott Koch, Esq. 
Driscoll & Driscoll, P.C. 
Post Office Box 301457 
Boston, MA 02130 
 
Elliott@Drilaw.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Koch: 
 
This office received a complaint from John Adams on April 21, 2025, alleging that the 
Mashpee Housing Authority Board of Commissioners (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 21, 
and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated March 11.  The complainant alleges 
that he has been denied access to Board meetings in violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by barring 
the complainant from attending open meetings in person without providing an alternative means 
of attendance.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed 
notices of Board meetings held on March 13 and April 10, and Mashpee Police incident reports 
and call logs forwarded by Mr. Adams.  Finally, we communicated with you and with the 
complainant by email.  We also spoke with Mr. Adams by telephone. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  There is a history of friction between the complainant and 
the Mashpee Housing Authority (the “Housing Authority”), including its Executive Director, 
Kimberly Conn.  The Housing Authority alleges threatening or destructive behavior on the part 
of Mr. Adams, including slashing the tire of a Housing Authority employee and throwing 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2025. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
furniture.  The complainant denies these allegations and maintains that he has never been violent 
at the Housing Authority and has never threatened staff or residents.  For example, he has 
explained to us that he was breaking down a bookshelf to throw it in the dumpster when he was 
accused of throwing furniture.  The Board also asserts that on May 25, 2023, the complainant 
became upset at the main office of the Housing Authority, when Executive Director Conn was 
not available to speak with him.  As a result of the interaction that day between the complainant 
and the Housing Authority, Executive Director Conn called the Mashpee Police Department and 
a no trespass notice was issued.  The no trespass notice prohibits Mr. Adams from entering 
Housing Authority properties, including Asher’s Path apartments where Board meetings are 
held.  In September 2024, Executive Director Conn reported to the police that during an 
encounter at a gas station, the complainant said to her “people are coming for you,” which she 
interpreted as a threat.  Mr. Adams has denied these allegations; no charges were filed.   
 
On two occasions, after issuance of the no trespass notice, Mr. Adams arrived at an open 
meeting of the Board but was unable to attend because Board members told him to leave and 
called the Mashpee Police Department or threatened to do so.  He left the meetings when told to 
do so, before police arrived.
2  In its response to the complaint, dated March 11, the Board 
committed that at its next meeting, it would discuss adding a video option so that members of the 
public, including Mr. Adams, could attend meetings remotely.  However, notices of the Board’s 
next two meetings, held on March 13 and April 10, did not include the topic of remote access.  
Those meetings were held in-person only, according to the notices.  The Board has never 
communicated with Mr. Adams about remote attendance. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.  
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  Access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be 
physically present, as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the 
public body.  See OML 2025-68; OML 2023-52; 2017-135.
3   
 
There is no more basic requirement of the Open Meeting Law than that meetings be open 
to the
 public.  See OML 2024-178; OML 2022-143; OML 2020-7.  Nonetheless, a public body 
must be able to take reasonable steps to ensure the safety and good order of public meetings.  By 
“good order,” we mean protection against violent, threatening or abusive behavior, and not 
merely behavior that may disrupt a meeting.  See OML 2022-41; OML 2019-87; OML 2015-92.  
Disruptive behavior should be addressed by removing the person from the meeting.  See G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(g).  Exclusion of individuals from an open meeting must be based on specific 
 
2 These two meetings were held in 2023.  If Mr. Adams alleged that it was only th ese meetings he was unable to 
attend, his complaint would be untimely, as it was filed more than 30 days after the alleged violations .  See G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(b).  However, the complainant alleges, and the Board does not dispute , that he continues to be denied 
access to meetings. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website,  
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
incidents of physical aggression, violence, actual threats of harm, or other conduct that could 
reaso
nably place public body members or attendees in imminent fear for their personal safety.  
See OML 2018-77. 
 
Mr. Adams does not allege that Board meetings are inaccess
 ible to the general public.  
Instead, we review to determine whether Mr. Adams individually has been able to access the 
meetings.  The complainant alleges that he has been unable to attend Board meetings because the 
Board has issued a no trespass notice prohibiting from entering the location where the Board 
meetings are held.  It is not within our purview to determine whether issuance of the no trespass 
notice was warranted.  See OML 2019-87 (noting that “we do not second guess the 
Commission’s judgment in issuing the Notice of No Trespass generally”).  The Board has 
described specific incidents (although strongly disputed by the complainant) to support its 
concern that the complainant’s personal attendance may pose a threat to public safety.  That 
concern satisfies the Law’s requirement that exclusion from a meeting occur only in the face of a 
reasonable and imminent fear for personal safety.  However, the Board has made no effort to 
provide remote access to the complainant, even after committing to discuss such alternative 
access at a meeting.  For this reason, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.  See 
OML 2019-87 (finding that public body violated Open Meeting Law where it made no effort to 
resolve security concerns in manner that would allow complainant to attend public meetings until 
several months after denying access).
4 
 
Finally, we emphasize that the c
 omplainant may not be deprived indefinitely of the 
opportunity to attend Board meetings in person.  The Board must reassess circumstances 
regularly and decide whether ongoing prohibition from meetings is warranted.  A no trespass 
order must be “drawn as narrowly as possible to avoid unnecessarily excluding individuals from 
posted meetings of public bodies.”  See OML 2019-14.  Once good order is no longer at risk, the 
complainant must be allowed to attend meetings in person.  See OML 2019-87 (noting that 
remote access is contrary to the Law’s guaranty to be “physically present” absent special 
circumstances). 
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
denied John Adams physical access to its meetings without providing alternative access.  We 
order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar 
violations in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law.  940 CMR 
29.02. We also order the Board to provide remote access to the complainant to all open Board 
meetings held more than 30 days after the date of this letter.
5  The complainant shall be provided 
with comparable access to the meetings as those attending in person, including the ability to 
participate in public comment if public comment is available to those attending in person.     
 
 
4 We decline to review allegations that fall outside of the Open Meeting Law, including the allegation that Executive 
Director Conn has “weaponized” security cameras at the Housing Authority. 
5 We do not order the Board to provide remote access to the public at large, as public bodies are not required to 
provide multiple means of access to their meetings.  Nonetheless, we encourage public bodies to provide multiple 
means of access when possible.  See OML 2025-68; OML 2023-293; OML 2021-148. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
       Sincerely, 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
cc: John Adams (via email: ) 
 Mashpee Town Clerk (via email: jcolpitts@mashpeema.gov) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
