===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACI-IUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATroRNEY GENERAL 
October 19, 2011 
OML 2011- 40 
D. M. Moschos 
Mirick O'Connell 
100 Front St. 
Worcester, MA 01608 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Mochos: 
This office received a complaint from Ms. Paula Melville dated April 6, 2011 alleging 
that the Adams Board of Selectmen (the "Board") and the Adams Town Administrator' violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that on 
February 28, 2011, the Board "improperly held an open meeting and improperly discussed 
certain matters in open session," and that the Board and Town Administrator, "conducted Town 
business without notice of and without an open meeting and/or executive session." Her 
complaint was filed with the Board on March 6, 2011, and the Board responded to the complaint 
on March 25, 2011. 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the March 6, 2011 complaint and attached documents filed with the 
Board, the Board's March 25, 2011 response to the complaint, and the April 6, 2011 complaint 
filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed the meeting notice and the minutes of the 
Board's February 28, 2011 emergency meeting. We also reviewed an undated letter from the 
AFSCME Council 93 Staff Representative to the Town's labor counsel. Finally, we reviewed 
written statements provided by the Board members (other than the complainant) to our office in 
response to a June 14, 2011 request. 
FACTS  
We note that the Town Administrator is not a member of the Board, and is thus not subject to the Open Meeting 
Law. We only consider the allegations against the Town Administrator to the extent they charge that he facilitated 
unlawful deliberations between and among a quorum of Board members. 
1 
===PAGE 2===
The facts are mostly undisputed, though we note where the complainant and the Board 
disagree. The members of the Board at the time the complaint was filed include Chairman 
Michael Ouellette, Vice-Chairman Arthur Harrington, Jason Hnatonko, Scott Nichols, and the 
complainant, Paula Melville. 
On or about February.  25, 2011, the Adams Town Administrator, Jonathan Butler, 
provided courtesy copies of his proposed annual budget to the members of the Board of 
Selectmen. The proposed budget was provided to the Board members fof their review ahead of 
the regularly scheduled March 1, 2011 Board meeting. At that meeting, the budget would be 
officially presented to the Board and would become public. Until that time, the Town 
Administrator considered the budget to be a confidential document. 
On the morning of February 28, 2011, Ms. Melville visited the Town's Council on Aging 
Department and Social Day program located at the Adams Community Center. What exactly 
occurred during this visit remains a point of contention. The Board asserts that Ms. Melville 
informed the Council on Aging director and two administrative assistants of the collective 
bargaining contents of the proposed budget relevant to their department. The Board further 
asserts that Ms. Melville informed the two administrative assistants that they would be laid off if 
the proposed budget was approved. Both administrative assistants are members of a collective 
bargaining unit represented by AFSCME, Council 93, AFL-CIO, Local 204 (the "Union"). The 
Board notes that on February 16, 2011, the Town and the Union specifically agreed that the 
Town Administrator would meet, in the presence of a union representative, with any individuals 
in the bargaining unit who might be laid off as a result of the Town Administrator's proposed 
budget, prior to the budget's public release. 
In her complaint, Ms. Melville acknowledges that she visited the Town's Council on 
Aging Department and Social Day program the morning of February 28, 2011. She denies that 
she informed any employees that they would be laid off Ms Melville states that she was there 
to, "confirm with the department head that the department's budget proposed cutting one part-
time position and two full-time positions at the same time another full-time position be created." 
Ms. Melville explains that she asked a part-time staff member whether she had seen the proposed 
town budget. When the staff member responded "no," Ms. Melville told her, "You won't be 
happy. I know I'm not." After that exchange, Ms. Melville states that she spoke with the 
Council on Aging director and a full-time staff member, and explained that "sweeping changes 
are recommended in the budget and that she found them totally unacceptable." 
Following Ms. Melville's visit to the Adams Community Center, the Director of the 
Council on Aging immediately called the Town Administrator, Jonathan Butler, and relayed to 
him what had occurred. Mr. Butler was concerned that Ms. Melville's actions may have violated 
the Town's February 16, 2011 agreement with the Union. Mr. Butler then notified Board 
Chairman Michael Ouellette and Vice-Chair Arthur Harrington as to what had been reported by 
the Council on Aging director. The two Board members met at Town Hall with the Town 
Administrator that afternoon to discuss Ms. Melville's alleged actions and the possible 
consequences to the Town. They consulted outside counsel, and were advised to hold an 
emergency meeting to address the issue. Chairman Ouellette and Vice-Chairman Harrington 
decided to convene an emergency meeting for that evening at 6:30 p.m. The Town's outside 
2 
===PAGE 3===
counsel was asked by either the Chair or the Town Administrator to prepare documents for the 
emergency meeting. 
The Town Administrator then informed each Board member of the time and location of 
the emergency meeting, and the general purpose for the meeting. The Board states that it tried to 
contact Ms. Melville by email to inform her of the emergency meeting that evening but did not 
receive a response. It is unclear whether the Town Administrator or any other Town Officials 
tried to reach Ms. Melville by telephone. 
The Board posted notice at 3:33 p.m. on February 28, 2011 for a 6:30 p.m. emergency 
Board meeting. A deputy from the Berkshire County Sheriff's Office served Ms. Melville with a 
copy of the emergency meeting notice at her home at approximately 4:25 p.m. The Deputy 
Sheriff certified that he delivered the notice to her in person. 
The Board convened its emergency meeting at 6:35 p.m. on February 28, 2011. Ms. 
Melville was not present for the meeting. The entire meeting occurred in open session. The 
Board considered four issues relating to Ms. Melville's alleged conduct and proposed actions, 
which included publicly disavowing her statements, referring her to the State Ethics 
Commission, directing her not to discuss Town business with Town employees without 
permission of the Town Administrator, and directing Ms. Melville not to enter Town department 
premises without express prior permission of the Town Administrator. Written motions covering 
each issue were prepared by outside counsel in advance of the meeting. The Board discussed 
and approved each motion. The signed resolutions were publicly released at the end of the 
meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
Ms. Melville makes a number of allegations against the Board, and we will address each 
in turn. It appears, however, that the Board acted very carefully and deliberately to quickly 
address a situation that required immediate attention and action by the Board. The Board Chair 
acted appropriately once notified by the Town Administrator of a potential problem that could 
have resulted in legal action against the Town. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, "except in an emergency...a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays," and every notice shall include, "the date, time and place of such meeting and 
a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b). An "emergency" is defmed as "a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set 
of circumstances demanding immediate action." Id. at § 18. In an emergency, "a public body 
shall post notice as soon as reasonably possible prior to such meeting." Id. at § 20(b). 
The Open Meeting Law further requires that a public body conduct all deliberations 
during a properly posted meeting. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(a). A "deliberation" is defmed in 
relevant part as, "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; 
provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, [or] 
scheduling information." Id. at §18. A "meeting" is defined in relevant part as "a deliberation 
3 
===PAGE 4===
by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." Id. A "quorum" is 
defined as, "a simple majority of the members of the public body, unless otherwise provided in a 
general or special law, executive order or other authorizing provision." 
Ms. Melville alleges that the Board, "could not have properly convened to take any 
action, including investigation of the allegations" against her at its February 28, 2011 meeting. 
She additionally alleges that the information which formed the basis of the allegations against 
her was "conveyed to the four named individual Board members by the Town Administrator and 
not in a convened meeting in closed session but in individual or group meetings and/or 
communications between and among the four named Board members and the Town 
Administrator," and asserts that it was improper to discuss "certain matters in open session." 
She further alleges that the Board "hired an outside attorney who prepared documents making 
charges against Melville." She alleges that the Board members discussed and approved directing 
the Berkshire County Sheriff to serve Ms. Melville with the emergency meeting notice. Finally, 
she alleges that the Board members approved disseminating documents to local news media prior 
to the February 28, 2011 emergency meeting. 
1. The Board Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Convening an Emergency 
Meeting on February 28, 2011. 
Ms. Melville's complaint essentially alleges that the Board members engaged in an 
unlawful deliberation by discussing the allegations made against her prior to holding a properly 
noticed meeting. We find no evidence to support this allegation. Board Chairman Michael 
Ouellette made the decision to call the emergency meeting after conferring with special counsel, 
with Town Administrator Jonathan Butler, and with Board Vice-Chairman Arthur Harrington. 
This discussion occurred between two of the five Board members. A "deliberation" is "an oral 
or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a 
quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, §18. A 
"quorum" is a simple majority of the Board, in this case three out of five members. Id. Because 
Chairman Ouellette conferred with only one other Board member prior to making the decision to 
hold an emergency meeting, the discussion did not reach a quorum, and thus was not a 
deliberation. The other Board members confirmed in written statements that they were not part 
of this discussion prior to the meeting. 
Once Chairman Ouellette made the decision to convene an emergency meeting, Town 
Administrator Jonathan Butler called the other Board members with the scheduling information. 
Ms. Melville accuses the Town Administrator of essentially facilitating a serial deliberation 
among a quorum of the Board members. However, the definition of "deliberation" specifically 
excludes communications involving "scheduling information." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Here, it was 
appropriate for the Town Administrator to contact the Board members, tell them details of the 
meeting including the time and location, as well as the general purpose. 
Ms. Melville claims that the Board "improperly held an open meeting" on February 28, 
2011. It is not clear from the complaint whether Ms. Melville alleges that there was no valid 
emergency to justify the February 28, 2011 meeting. Assuming that was her concern, we find 
that, whether or not the allegations against Ms. Melville were true (and we make no finding 
regarding those allegations) the Board was justified in taking immediate action because of the 
4 
===PAGE 5===
harm that could result if the allegations were true.2  The emergency meeting was the result on a 
generally unexpected occurrence, namely the alleged incident at the Council on Aging 
Department that very morning. An emergency meeting was, therefore, appropriate. 
2. The Board did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Holding its Deliberations at 
the February 28, 2011 Meeting in Open Session. 
Ms. Melville claims that the Board "improperly held an open meeting and improperly 
discussed certain matters in open session." Ms. Melville goes on to charge that the "Board did 
not discuss sensitive issues in closed session, and it had no waiver from Melville to allow the 
discussion to be in open session." 
Ms. Melville objects to the meeting being held in open session. The Open Meeting Law 
states that a public body "may meet in executive session" for one of 10 enumerated purposes. 
G.L. c. 30A, §21(a) (emphasis added). A public body is never required by the Open Meeting 
Law to enter executive session. Other state laws may require a public body to consider a matter 
in executive session, but we provide no opinion about the applicability of any other statute in this 
matter. The Board did not need a waiver or consent from Ms. Melville to discuss allegations 
against her in open session. The Board would only need a waiver from Ms. Melville had they 
voted to enter executive session under Purpose 1 without providing Ms. Melville 48 hours 
written notice. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). However, the Board never entered executive 
session. 
3. We Find No Evidence that the Board Engaged in Deliberations Outside of its Posted 
Meeting on February 28, 2011. 
Ms. Melville alleges that the Board engaged in communications between and among the 
quorum to hire outside counsel, direct counsel to produce documents for use at the February 28, 
2011 emergency meeting, direct a Berkshire County Sheriff to serve her with notice, and to 
release certain documents to the local news media. After reviewing statements by the Board 
members provided to this office, we find no evidence that any deliberations occurred outside of 
the posted February 28, 2011 emergency meeting. The Board Chairman and Vice-Chairman did 
meet with the Town Administrator, and together they decided to contact outside counsel. 
Counsel had already been retained for ongoing labor matters, therefore the Board Chairman did 
not act unilaterally to retain outside counsel. The other decisions that Ms. Melville alleges were 
made between and among the quorum appear to have been made by the three officials (Boaxd. 
members Ouellette and Harrington, and Town Administrator Butler) along with outside counsel. 
The three officials asked counsel to prepare documents for the emergency meeting and to serve 
notice on Ms. Melville through the Berkshire County Sheriff s office. The other two Board 
members were not part of these discussions. They were invited to participate in the emergency 
meeting. Because these discussions and decisions involved less than a quorum, no deliberation 
2  This was not a hypothetical harm. In fact, the Union sent an undated letter to the Town's labor counsel following 
the February 28, 2011 meeting stating their concern that, "a member of the Adams Board of Selectmen, Paula 
Melville, approached AFSCME members employed in the Adams Council on Aging and announced that they were 
going to be laid off... the Union would have had no choice but to file a Charge of Prohibited Practice with the 
Division of Labor Relations. However, it has also come to the attention of AFSCME Council 93 that the Adams 
Board of Selectmen immediately met to disavow the actions taken by Ms. Melville. AFSCME appreciates the 
concern the Board has with present and continuing labor relations." 
5 
===PAGE 6===
occurred. 
The Board members acknowledge that Board member Jason Hnatonko stopped by the 
Town Hall while the Board Chairman and Vice-Chairman were discussing the allegations against 
Ms. Melville. Mr. Hnatonko had a previously scheduled lunch with the Town Administrator, 
Jonathan Butler. Mr. Butler told Mr. Hnatonko that he was unable to make the lunch because of 
an issue that had come up relating to Ms. Melville. All Mr. Hnatonko was told was that there 
might be an emergency meeting scheduled for that evening. He did not participate in any of the 
discussions. Mr. Harrington also states that he left when Mr. Hnatonko arrived to avoid a 
quorum. A public body may not engage in a serial communication whereby a quorum 
communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting, on a particular subject 
matter within the public body's jurisdiction. See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 
(2008). It does not appear a serial deliberation occurred here, because Mr. Hnatonko was only 
informed of the possibility of a future emergency meeting, and did not participate in any 
substantive discussion. 
Ms. Melville alleges that the Board engaged in deliberation by agreeing to release 
documents regarding the allegations against Ms. Melville to the local news media prior to the 
Board's February 28, 2011 emergency meeting. The Board denies that it released any 
documents related to the allegations against Ms. Melville prior to the February 28, 2011 
emergency meeting. We find no evidence that Board released these documents prior to the 
meeting, nor do we find any evidence that there was any discussion between and among a 
quorum of the Board prior to the meeting regarding release of such documents. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board was justified in holding an emergency meeting on February 28, 
2011 and followed the proper steps to post notice ahead of the meeting. We find no evidence 
that a quorum of the Board engaged in deliberation prior to the emergency meeting. We also 
find no evidence that the Town Administrator facilitated a serial communication between a 
quorum of the Board prior to the Board's February 28, 2011 emergency meeting. We did not 
review, and make no finding regarding, the underlying allegations against Ms. Melville. 
We appreciate the cooperation of the Board during this investigation. We now consider 
this matter closed. Please contact me if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincer ly, 
onathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
cc: Paula Melville 
6 