===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 29, 2015 
OML 2015 - 14 
James B. Lampke, Esq. 
Hull Town Counsel 
115 North Street 
Hingham, MA 02043 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Lampke: 
This office received a complaint filed by Susan Ovans of The Hull Times, dated August 
25, 2014, alleging that the Hull Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that, during a July 15, 2014 
meeting, the Board entered into executive session but failed to first publicly state all subjects that 
could be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. 
Additionally, the complaint alleges that the Board improperly invoked the attorney/client 
privilege as a purpose for that executive session. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Board on July 21, 2014. The Board responded by letter dated August 15, 2014, following an 
extension of time granted by our office. 
We appreciate the parties' patience while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to publicly identify the 
collective bargaining unit with which it was negotiating and failing to publicly identify one of 
the parties with whom it was involved in litigation before entering into executive session on July 
15, 2014. We do not find that this violation was intentional, and we acknowledge that the Board 
was acting on advice of counsel at the time. Furthermore, we find that the Board did sufficiently 
identify the other litigation matter that it discussed in executive session. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Board, the Board's response, and the 
complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed the notice for, and open and 
executive session minutes of, the Board's July 15, 2014 meeting. We reviewed emails you sent 
to our office regarding this matter, dated October 31, 2014; November 20, 2014; December 11, 
2014 (2); and December 16, 2014. Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on October 7, 2014 
and January 15, 2015, and in person on December 4, 2014. 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. Notice for the Board's July 15, 2014 meeting, posted on 
July 10, 2014, listed eight topics for discussion, but no executive session. On the morning of the 
meeting, the Chair became aware of an update in a potential litigation matter. Additionally, 
immediately prior to the meeting, the Town Manager informed the chair of his desire to provide 
the Board with an update concerning a collective bargaining matter. During the meeting, 
therefore, the Board voted to enter into executive session, according to the minutes, to: 
discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining, and that I as Chair declare that an 
open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining positions of the body, and 
move into Executive Session to discuss strategy with respect to litigation and that 1, as 
Chair, declare than an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating 
position of the body, to comply with, or act under the authority of the Attorney-Client 
privilege and move to go into Executive Session to consult with legal counsel or obtain 
legal advice pursuant to the Attorney-Client Privilege and not be reconvening into open 
session. 
The minutes reflect that the Board then identified the subjects it planned to discuss in 
executive session, namely "Collective Bargaining, Sewer Plant Claims, Property Damage 
Claims; Chairman said he wanted to discuss a claim where a resident is threatening to sue the 
Town." 
Because the executive session minutes have not been publicly released, we do not recount 
their content in detail here. We do, however, note that, while in executive session, the Board 
approved an agreement with one collective bargaining unit and received an update on 
negotiations with another. The Board also discussed two matters related to possible litigation, 
one concerning an insurance claim involving a sewer plant owned by the Town and the other 
concerning a claim against the Town by a property owner for property damage, which was 
included in a letter that threatened litigation. The Board discussed the litigation potential of the 
claims and steps the Board could take in response. Neither claim was in active litigation at the 
time of the executive session. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a). Before entering into executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the 
executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose 
for which the executive session was called. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). One purpose for executive 
session is for public bodies to discuss, "strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation 
if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the 
public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). A public body's 
discussions with its counsel do not automatically fall under this or any other purpose for holding 
an executive session. Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Guide, August 1, 2013, at page 8. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
This purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with respect to litigation that is 
pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. See Ferryman 
v. School Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2013-108; OMT 
2012-43; OML 2012-5.1 
Here, the Board entered into executive session to discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining and potential litigation. While the Board's collective bargaining strategy 
discussion was appropriate for executive session, we find that the Board failed to publicly state 
"all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive 
session was called" at the time it entered into executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). 
Generally, public bodies must identify the collective bargaining unit with which they are 
negotiating before entering into executive session under Purpose 3. See OML 2013-129; OML 
2013-91. A public body may withhold the identity of the collective bargaining unit if publicly 
disclosing it would compromise the purpose for which the executive session was called. See 
G.L. c. 3 OA, § 21(b)(3). While we generally defer to public bodies' assessment of whether the 
inclusion of such details would compromise the purpose for an executive session, a public body 
must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for that claim if challenged. The Board contends 
that, here, disclosing the identity of the collective bargaining unit prior to this executive session 
would have been detrimental to its bargaining position and compromised the purpose for which 
the executive session was called because the disclosure might have alerted other collective 
bargaining units to the pending agreement, thus providing those collective bargaining units with 
the opportunity to interfere or use that information to advance their own negotiations. While we 
acknowledge that disclosure of the fact that the Board was negotiating with these particular 
collective bargaining units may have created political inconvenience, the Board did not offer any 
specific information to demonstrate that disclosure of the identities of the collective bargaining 
units being discussed would have detrimentally affected the Board's negotiating position. We 
therefore find that, while the Board did not need to disclose any substance about its negotiating 
strategy or position, it should have publicly identified which collective bargaining unit it was 
meeting to discuss. OML 2013-129; OML 2013-91. We note that the Board did publicly 
disclose the name of the collective bargaining unit (the library collective bargaining unit) when it 
signed the agreement with that collective bargaining unit at a subsequent meeting. While we 
commend the Board for making this information public shortly after its July 15, 2014 meeting, 
we nevertheless find that it should have identified the collective bargaining unit prior to entering 
into executive session. 
The complaint also questions whether the use of Purpose 3 was proper here to discuss 
potential litigation. The Board entered into executive session under Purpose 3 to discuss two 
potential litigation matters. The first involved an insurance claim by the Town involving a Town 
sewer plant. Because the Board discussed the potential litigation impact and steps it would take 
in pursuing the insurance claim, we find that this was an appropriate discussion for executive 
session, as litigation was demonstrably likely. See OML 2013-108; OML 2012-43; OML 2012-
5. 
The second litigation matter discussed by the Board was regarding a claim against the 
Town for property damage. Because a claim was brought against the Town that was reasonably 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass, gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
likely lead to litigation, this was also proper for executive session. See OML 2013-108; OML 
2012-43; OML 2012-5. However, the Board did not publicly identify the claimant other than to 
state that the discussion would involve, "Property Damage Claims." The Board argues that 
publicly identifying the claimant would have been detrimental to the Board's litigating position 
because such disclosure could have encouraged other potential claimants to take action against 
the Town and could have caused that claimant to take further action in pursuit of the original 
claim. 
Much like collective bargaining discussions, when entering into executive session to 
discuss litigation matters under executive session Purpose 3, public bodies generally must 
identify the matter that is the subject of an executive session. See OML 2014-50; OML 2012-
118. A public body need not identify the litigation matter if publicly disclosing it would 
compromise the purpose for which the executive session was called, such as when the body is 
considering initiating litigation against another party. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). As with the 
collective bargaining context, we generally defer to public bodies' assessment of whether the 
inclusion of such details would compromise the purpose for an executive session, but a public 
body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for that claim if challenged. 
Here, the property owner sent a letter to the Board demanding restitution for a property 
damage claim. The executive session was called so that the Board could confidentially discuss 
its litigation strategy in response to threatened litigation. Identifying the claimant would, indeed, 
have alerted the claimant and other interested parties to the fact that this matter was being 
discussed. However, we find that is precisely what the law required. That publicly disclosing 
the identity of the claimant could have encouraged others to come forward as claimants was not 
detrimental to the Board's litigation strategy, but rather was a consequence of its status as a 
public entity. Similarly, that the claimant may have taken further action in pursuit of the claim 
upon learning that the Board would be discussing the matter in executive session was a 
consequence of that same'status. We therefore find that including this minimal amount of 
information - the name of the claimant - was required, because it would have notified interested 
parties that this matter was being discussed behind closed doors and would not have 
compromised the Board's confidential discussion regarding its litigation strategy. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(b)(3); OML 2014-50; OML 2012-118. The Board should have included this 
additional detail in the notice for its July 15, 2014 meeting and in its verbal statement at the time 
it voted to enter executive session 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the Board improperly invoked the attorney/client 
privilege as a basis for its July 15, 2014 executive session. Because we find that the executive 
session was proper under Purpose 3, we do not need to decide whether the attorney/client 
privilege would have been a valid basis for the executive session in the absence of that cited 
purpose. However, we note that the attorney/client privilege itself is not an explicitly 
enumerated basis for executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Thus, we have stated in the 
past that communication between counsel and a quorum of a public body may occur only during 
a properly noticed open meeting or during an executive session held for one of the ten 
enumerated purposes. See OML 2012-55; OML 2011-27; OML 2010-6. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
CONCLUSION 
We find that Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to publicly identify the 
collective bargaining units with which it was negotiating and failing to publicly identify one of 
the parties with whom it was involved in potential litigation before entering into executive 
session on July 15, 2014. We order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, and caution the Board that a similar future violation may be considered evidence 
of an intentional violation of the Law. Additionally, we order the Board to amend its July 15, 
2014 open session meeting minutes to include the identity of the collective bargaining units and 
the litigation matter involving property damage that it discussed in executive session. This 
amendment should occur within thirty (30) days of receipt of this letter. 
With the issuance of this determination, we now consider this matter closed. Please 
contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Hull Board of Selectmen 
Susan Ovans, The Hull Times 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
5 