===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
 
October 5, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 125 
 
 
James Donnelly, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP   
50 Braintree Hill Office Park 
Braintree, MA 02184 
 
By email only: jdonnelly@mhtl.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Donnelly: 
 
This office received a complaint from Christine McCue Potts on June 15, 2026, alleging 
that the Medfield School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §22.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on April 7, 2026, and you 
responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated May 15, 2026, following 
an extension of time granted by our office.  The complaint alleges that the Committee created 
insufficiently detailed minutes of the meeting held on March 5, 2026.  
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to accurately record a vote taken during the March 5, 2026, meeting but further find that 
the Committee took appropriate remedial action by revising the minutes during its May 14, 2026, 
meeting.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  In 
addition, we reviewed the original and amended open session minutes of the Committee meeting 
held on March 5, 2026, the open session minutes of the Committee meeting held on May 14, 
2026, and a video recording of the March 5, 2026, meeting.
0F
1   
 
 
 
1 A video recording of the Committee meeting held on March 5, 2026, is available at: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gyvcg-tHcbY&list=PLypOllJHc4M2EgOMD_XarFqL3EXJi8KCv&index=6. 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Committee is a five-member public body.  On March 
5, 2026, the Committee held a meeting in the Medfield High School Library Media Center and 
all five Committee members were present at the physical meeting location. 
 
 At the beginning of the meeting, the Committee heard from two members of the public – 
the complainant and Dick Judge.  Mr. Judge spoke for approximately three minutes and 
highlighted the importance of reinstating third-grade tours, a volunteer-led program that 
introduced students to Medfield’s historic sites and local history.  He noted that the tours were 
designed to teach third graders about the town’s historical significance, including its founding by 
volunteers and the role of volunteers in building the town and supporting early military efforts, 
and suggested that when tour volunteers are selectively removed from such programs, it 
diminishes the educational and community benefits.  He concluded by noting that the Committee 
had previously voted to discontinue the program and advocated for reinstatement of third-grade 
tours.  Several Committee members, including Member Diana Frascella, responded that the 
Committee did not vote on the matter.  Mr. Judge and Ms. Frascella then mocked each other.  
Committee Chair Michelle Kirby asked Ms. Frascella to “stop.”  Ms. Frascella then left the 
meeting room.  After receiving public comment, the Committee approved minutes of the meeting 
held on February 5, 2026, and then discussed the remaining posted topics.   
 
The original minutes of the March 5, 2026, meeting, which were approved on March 26, 
2026, include three paragraphs detailing the substance of  Mr. Judge’s comments but do not 
summarize the nature of the interaction between Mr. Judge and Ms. Frascella.  Rather, the 
minutes simply indicate that a “discussion between Mr. Judge and Ms. Frascella followed and 
was subsequently ended by Ms. Kirby, the School Committee Chair.”  In addition, the minutes 
reflect that the motion to approve the minutes of the February 5, 2026, meeting was “passed 
unanimously” but do not indicate that Ms. Frascella had left the meeting before the vote. 
 
During a meeting held on May 14, 2026, the Committee amended the minutes of the 
March 5, 2026, meeting.  The amended minutes note when Ms. Frascella left and returned to the 
March 5, 2026, meeting, and reflect that the motion to approve the February 5, 2026, meeting 
minutes “passed 4-0,” and that “Ms. Frascella was absent for this portion of the meeting.”  
However, the minutes do not further explain the interaction between Mr. Judge and Ms. 
Frascella.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  When reviewing minutes for compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement.  See 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64.1F
2  By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should 
contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See OML 
2012-106.  While minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is 
not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented.  See 
OML 2024-226; OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55.   
 
The complaint alleges that the minutes of the March 5, 2026, meeting fail to accurately 
record the vote the Committee took to approve the minutes of the February 5, 2026, meeting.  
Here, the original minutes record that the motion to the approve the minutes “passed 
unanimously.”  However, only four of the five members who were listed as present for the 
meeting actually voted to approve the minutes.  To be “accurate,” meeting minutes must 
accurately reflect the discussions that took place during a meeting, including a record of all 
votes.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2020-62.  Because the minutes must accurately capture 
the discussions and actions that actually took place, it is inappropriate to include information in 
meeting minutes that did not occur at a meeting.  See OML 2021-128.  Here, the Committee 
acknowledged that the minutes did not reflect that Ms. Frascella was not present for the motion 
and vote, and subsequently amended the minutes to reflect her absence and that the motion to 
approve the minutes “passed 4-0.”  Therefore, although we find that the original minutes were 
inaccurate and did not include sufficient detail as required by the Open Meeting Law, we find 
that the Committee took appropriate remedial action in response to the complaint by amending 
the minutes to state that Ms. Frascella was absent for the motion and vote and then recorded the 
vote as it actually occurred.    
 
With respect to the allegation in the complaint that the minutes do not sufficiently 
describe what transpired between Mr. Judge and Ms. Frascella during the public comment 
period, we do not find a violation.  We reiterate that meeting minutes need not be a transcript of 
the remarks and a public body is not required to capture every comment made during public 
comment in order to substantially comply with the accuracy requirement of the Open Meeting 
Law.  See OML 2021-128; OML 2021-4; OML 2019-136; see also OML 2021-81 (concluding 
that minutes were sufficiently detailed though they did not capture committee’s three-and-a-half-
minute discussion recapping a protocol in response to citizen input).  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by creating inaccurate minutes of the March 5, 2026, meeting.  However, we order no further 
remedial action where the Committee amended the minutes to accurately reflect the actions taken 
during the meeting.  We do order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence 
of intent to violate the law.   
 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Christine McCue Potts – By email only:  
Medfield School Committee Chair – By email only: scchair@email.medfield.net 
Medfield Town Clerk Marion Bonoldi – By email only: mbonoldi@medfield.net  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
