===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
February 6, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 15 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Rodney Collins  
Mashpee Town Manager  
rccollins@mashpeema.gov  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Town Manager Collins: 
 
This office received a complaint from Barbara Lynne Barbee on August 8, 2022,
1 
alleging that the Mashpee Affordable Housing Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on 
or about July 14. The Committee did not respond to the complaint. The complaint alleges that a 
portion of the Committee’s June 14 meeting was inaccessible to the public.2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged but remedied the violation after this complaint was filed. In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint; the request for further review; a June 28 letter 
from Mashpee resident Wendy Williams to Mashpee Town Manager, Rodney Collins;3 a June 30 
letter from Mr. Collins to the Chair of the Committee, Allan Isbitz; an Open Meeting Law 
complaint filed with our office by Wendy Williams and another filed by Mashpee resident 
Marcia MacInnis;
4 an August 19 email from Mr. Collins to our office regarding Ms. Williams’ 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The complaint also alleges that, in general, the Committee does not “publish” its meeting minutes.  the Open 
Meeting Law requires public bodies to create and approve meeting minutes in a timely manner, and to provide them 
within 10 days of a request, if they exist in either draft or final form. See  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Open Meeting 
Law does not, however, require that minutes be published to a website or disseminated absent a request. See  G.L. c. 
30A, § 22; OML 2019-52. Although not required, we encourage public bodies to post meeting minutes to a website 
when possible in order to provide the public with convenient access to minutes. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
4 One complaint was improperly and untimely filed, and the other complaint was untimely filed. Ms. Williams and 
Ms. MacInnis voluntarily withdrew their complaints and we do not formally review either complaint.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
complaint; the notice and minutes for the Committee’s June 14 meeting; and the notice for and 
video recording of the Committee’s August 30 meeting.5 We also communicated with Mr. 
Collins by email. Finally, we communicated by email with Meredith Kilpatrick, one of the 
candidates interviewed during the June 14 meeting. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the relevant facts to be as follows. On June 10 the Committee posted notice for a 
meeting to be held on June 14 at 6:30 p.m. Under the heading “New Business,” the notice 
included the following topic: “Interviews of Candidates For Appointment by the Select Board to 
Serve as a Member of the Affordable Housing Committee.” Prior to the June 14 meeting the 
Chair contacted Meredith Kilpatrick, who had expressed interest in being considered for 
appointment to the Committee, and explained that the Committee had not had to consider 
multiple candidates for appointment before and that he wanted to facilitate a fair and open 
interview process in which one candidate would not have an advantage over another candidate 
because they were able to witness an earlier interview.  
 
The Committee met on June 14 as scheduled to interview three candidates for 
appointment to the Committee—Arden Russell, Meredith Kilpatrick, and Gary Shuman. Before 
the interviews began, Ms. Kilpatrick and another Mashpee resident were present in the meeting 
room. They were told that the interviews would begin soon, and both Ms. Kilpatrick and the 
other resident were asked to leave the room to allow candidates one-on-one time with the 
Committee. Ms. Kilpatrick and the resident left the room.  
 
In response to communications and complaints from residents of Mashpee regarding the 
fact that candidates were asked to leave the meeting room during the June 14 interviews, and in 
response to communications from the Town Manager explaining his belief that the Committee 
had violated the Open Meeting Law, the Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
August 30. The notice included the following topics:  
 
A. Interviews of Candidates For  Appointment by the Select Board to Serve as a 
member of the Affordable Housing Committee. Interviews will be held for 
candidates in alphabetical order by their last names.  
 
B. The Committee members will hold a discussion on the candidate interviews and 
their preference for the Committee recommendation to the Select Board.  
 
C. The Committee will vote on its recommendation to be made to the Select Board.  
 
During the August 30 meeting, the Committee conducted interviews anew of two 
of the three candidates interviewed on June 14—Arden Russell and Gary Shuman.
6 
Neither candidate, nor any member of the public, was asked to leave the meeting room 
 
5 A video recording of the Committee’s August 30 meeting can be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KXy7BT6xn1g&list=PLyUGIVooPocjf4qX92esCHjSRplViQrsB&index=41.  
6 Prior to the August 30 meeting, Ms. Kilpatrick voluntarily withdrew from consideration for reasons unrelated to 
the issues raised in this complaint. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
during the interviews. After the interviews were complete, each Committee member 
shared their thoughts on the candidates. The Chair then polled each member as to which 
candidate they would recommend be appointed to the Committee. Thereafter the 
Committee voted to recommend Gary Shuman for appointment. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
delibe
rations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Except when meeting in executive session, all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). In order to be open to the 
public, a meeting must be accessible to the public for the duration of the meeting. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(a); OML 2021-104; OML 2014-3.7 Access to a meeting must include the opportunity 
to be physically present, as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the 
public body. See OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54. 
 
Although we understand and appreciate that in asking the candidates to leave the meeting 
room during the interview of other candidates the Committee was trying to create a fair interview 
process,
8 we ultimately find a violation of the Open Meeting Law where both applicants and a 
member of the general public were asked to leave the room. We note for clarification that if 
candidates are asked if they are willing to leave the room during other candidate’s interviews and 
voluntarily agree, this would not violate the Open Meeting Law; however, if any individuals—
including candidates to be interviewed—are required to leave a public meeting, this would 
violate the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2018-138. Moreover, members of the public must not 
be discouraged from attending an open meeting.    
 
Although we find that the Committee violate the Open Meeting Law by asking both 
candida
tes and members of the public to leave the meeting room on June 14, we find that the 
Committee took sufficient remedial action to cure the violation. Violations of the Open Meeting 
Law may be cured by independent, deliberative action that is not merely a ceremonial acceptance 
and perfunctory ratification of action taken in violation of the Law. See Pearson v. Bd. of 
Selectmen of Longmeadow, 49 Mass. App. Ct. 119, 125 (2000); OML 2020-7; OML 2016-49. 
Generally, that means conducting deliberations anew at a subsequent meeting that is accessible 
to the public and for which proper notice is provided. Here, the Committee posted notice for a 
meeting be held on August 30 informing the public that it would again interview candidates for 
appointment to the Committee. At the August 30 meeting the Committee, in open session, 
interviewed anew two of the three candidates it had interviewed on June 14; discussed 
Committee member’s thoughts and recommendations regarding the two candidates; and then 
voted to recommend one of the candidates.  
 
 
7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
8 In an attachment to the minutes of its June 14 meeting entitled “Interview Preparations and Procedures,” the 
Committee explains that in order to ensure that candidates were not influenced by other’s responses to interview 
questions, “the candidates not being interviewed were asked to wait outside the room until it was their turn to be 
interviewed. No candidate raised an objection to this request.” 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Finally, although not raised in the complaint, we address three concerns that arose during 
the course of our review. First, the Committee did not respond to the complaint. The Open 
Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law Regulations require that, within 14 
business days after receiving a complaint, a public body must meet to review the complaint’s 
allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the complainant a response and a 
description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23; 940 CMR 29.05(5). The public body 
shall simultaneously provide the Attorney General with a copy of the complaint, the response, 
and a description of any remedial action taken. 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
 
Second, the notice for the June 14 and August 30 meetings did not list the individual 
candi
dates to be interviewed and discussed. We have consistently stated that the names of 
interviewees and applicants for appointment which are known 48 hours in advance of a meeting 
should be included on the meeting notice. See OML 2020-80; OML 2019-24; OML 2016-150; 
OML 2013-163. 
 
Third, the minutes of the June 14 meeting fail to summarize the interviews. The Open 
Meeti
ng Law requires a public body to “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, 
including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or 
absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used 
at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of 
all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2017-104; 
OML 2013-64. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough 
detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the 
minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2019-145; OML 2012-106. 
Although a transcript of the discussions is not required, and the minutes do not need to include 
every remark or opinion presented, minutes must include a substantive summary of the 
discussion on each topic; it is insufficient for the minutes to simply include a statement that a 
discussion was held. See OML 2020-53; OML 2019-167OML 2018-8; OML 2012-29; OML 
2011-55.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged. We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law and caution that similar violations in the future may be considered evidence of an 
intentional violation of the law. Because the Committee took appropriate remedial action to 
remedy the violation, we order no additional relief. 
  
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
 
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Allan Isbitz, Chair of the Mashpee Affordable Housing Committee c/o Rodney Collins, 
Mashpee Town Manager (via email: rccollins@mashpeema.gov) 
Barbara Lynne Barbee (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
