===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
January 28, 2020 
OML 2020 - 9
David P. Shapiro
Assistant City Solicitor
City of Somerville Law Department
City Hall
93 Highland Avenue 
Somerville, MA 02143
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Shapiro:
This office received a complaint from Irving Fischman on December 3, 2019, alleging 
that the Somerville Zoning Board of Appeals (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law,
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 11 and 
you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated September 20. The complaint alleges that 
the Board discussed a matter during its September 4 meeting that was insufficiently detailed on 
the notice for that meeting, and that the Board restricted public participation during the 
September 4 meeting.2
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed 
with our office requesting further review, and the notice and open session minutes of the Board’s 
September 4 meeting.
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2019.
2 The complaint further alleges that the Board accepted incomplete documentation regarding a special permit 
application and suggests that the Board should have held a new public hearing based on undisclosed information. 
The Division of Open Government is charged specifically with reviewing complaints to detennine compliance with 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Even if true, these allegations would not constitute a violation of the 
Open Meeting Law. As such, we decline to review them. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing 
Authority Board of Commissioners). We offer no opinion on whether any actions taken by the Board could be a 
violation of any other law or regulation pertaining to public hearings. See OML 2014-31; OML Declination 6-25-18 
(Rowley Planning Commission).

===PAGE 2===
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and that every 
notice include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies 
must list topics for discussion with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to 
include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35; OML 
2012-71; OML 2011-44.3
The complaint alleges that the Board’s discussion of a special permit for 117 Summer 
Street was not sufficiently detailed on the September 4 meeting notice. The notice for the 
Board’s September 4 meeting listed a public hearing for a special permit for parking relief at 117 
Summer Street. However, the complaint suggests that an issue was “hidden” from the notice, 
specifically that the Board was approving the creation of a medical office building under G.L. c 
40A, § 3 (the “Dover Amendment”) rather than approving a special permit for parking relief 
under Somerville’s zoning by-laws. The Dover Amendment states that no zoning ordinance or 
by-law shall regulate or restrict the use of land or structures for religious or educational purposes, 
or prohibit or require a special permit for the use of land or structures for the purpose of 
operating a child care facility. However, such land or structures may be subject to reasonable 
regulations concerning the height of structures and determining yard sizes, setbacks, open space, 
and parking. See G.L. c. 40A, § 3.
During the September 4 meeting, the Board stated that the use of the land at 117 Summer 
Street “is protected by the Dover Amendment.” The “Board has restrictions on what they can 
regulate under the Dover Amendment” and therefore the only business before the Board at the 
September 4 meeting regarding this project was a special permit request for parking relief. The 
Board heard from abutters to the project, including the complainant, and the project engineer.
The Board then unanimously approved the request for a special permit for six parking spaces as 
well as tandem spaces. We find that the notice for the September 4 meeting was sufficient to 
inform the public of the discussions that occurred where the posted agenda topic notified the 
public that it was conducting a public hearing with respect to a specifically identified property on 
Summer Street and referenced that the project included a special permit request for parking 
relief. As such, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.
Finally, the complaint alleges that members of the public in attendance at the September 
4 meeting were denied the opportunity to further comment before the Board voted on the special 
permit parking request. The Open Meeting Law states that “[n]o person shall address a meeting 
of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, 
be silent.” G.L. c. 30A § 20(f). The law does not require that a public body allow public 
participation, but rather gives the chair of the public body discretion to decide whether to permit 
public comment during a meeting. See OML 2017-189; OML 2014-23; OML 2012-78. It is not 
a violation of the Open Meeting Law for a public body to vote on a topic without first taking 
comments from the public. See OML 2013-64; OML 2012-59; OML 2012-23. Moreover, the
3 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
Board did not violate the Open Meeting by limiting public participation during the meeting, as it 
is within the Chair’s discretion to do so. See OML 2017-181. We do, however, encourage 
public bodies to allow for as much public participation as time and circumstances permit. See 
OML 2015-12; OML 2014-129; OML 2012-59.
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Irving Fischman
Somerville Zoning Board of Appeals
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
3
