===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
July 6, 2021 
 
OML 2021 - 89 
 
 
Frank Parker 
Chair, Everett School Committee 
337 Broadway 
Everett, MA 02149 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Mr. Parker: 
 
This office received two complaints from Steven Fitzgerald alleging that the Everett 
School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The first complaint was received on March 17, 2021, and the second complaint was received on 
May 24, 2021.1  The first complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about 
February 2, the second complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about April 14, 
and you responded to both complaints, on behalf of the Committee, by letters dated April 6 and 
April 20, respectively.2  The complaints allege that the Committee posted insufficiently detailed 
notices for meetings held on February 2 and April 14.   
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaints, the Committee’s responses to the complaints, the 
complaints filed with our office requesting further review, the notices of the Committee meetings 
held on February 2 and April 14, and the minutes of the Committee meeting held on February 2.  
We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged.   
 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 
2 The Open Meeting Law requires, that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, the public body must meet 
to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the complainant a response and a 
description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description 
of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  We note that the Committee failed to 
respond to the first complaint in the time required by the Law and we remind the Committee of its obligations. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Id.  The list of topics 
shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35.3   
 
The first complaint generally alleges that the notice for the Committee’s February 2 
meeting was not sufficiently specific while the second complaint generally alleges that the notice 
for the Committee’s April 14 meeting was not sufficiently specific.  Neither complaint identifies  
any specific issue with the sufficiency of the notices, however.4  Complainants must allege 
violations with a degree of specificity, as our office will not conduct broad audits of public 
bodies based on generalized allegations.  See OML 2014-119; OML 2012-106.  Moreover, 
neither the Committee’s February 2 meeting nor its April 14 meeting had yet occurred when the 
complainant filed the complaints.  When reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is 
clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting notice standing alone.  See OML 
2015-109; OML 2014-155.  Rather, we review what was actually discussed at the meeting to 
determine if the notice was sufficiently detailed to make the public aware of the discussion 
topics.  See OML 2015-101; OML 2015-21.   
 
Here, both notices included the date, time and place of the meetings, including a link to 
or the website address for the virtual meeting.5  Moreover, the notices included the topics that the 
chair reasonably anticipated would be discussed during each meeting.  Specifically, the notice of 
the February 2 meeting included one main topic – an executive session “to discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares pursuant to 
Mass. Gen. L. c. 30A, sec. 21(a)(3).”  The notice of the April 14 meeting included 16 topics.  We 
find that the topics listed on each notice are not clearly insufficient on their face; rather, all the 
topics included enough detail to advise members of the public of the anticipated nature of the 
public body’s discussions.  The Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to list all 
tangential topics related to a discussion nor does the law require a public body to anticipate the 
course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: https://www.msss.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
4 The second complaint seems to suggest that the Committee failed to include the date and time that the notice was 
posted as required by the Open Meeting Law.  See 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b) (the date and time that the notice is posted 
must be conspicuously recorded on or with the notice itself).  The notice that was posted to the municipal website, 
which is the official method of notice posting for the City of Everett, included a date and time stamp by the City 
Clerk; the date and time of posting was April 12 at 10:00 A.M.  
5 We note that the notice of the April 14 meeting did not include the time of the meeting on the face of the notice 
itself.  However, a cover letter that accompanied and was posted with the notice included the time of the meeting as 
3:00 P.M.  We, therefore, find that the Committee substantially complied with the Open Meeting Law’s requirement 
to include the time of the meeting on the notice.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  We advise the Committee to review each 
notice before posting to ensure that it contains all of the information required by the Open Meeting Law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
29.03(l)(b); OML 2015-73; OML 2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38.  Moreover, the 
notice of the February 2 meeting included the specific statutory citation of the executive session 
the Committee planned to convene under and therefore provided a sufficient description of the 
executive session purpose.  See OML 2016-95.  We remind the Committee that when it plans to 
convene in executive session under Purpose 3, as it did on February 2, a public body should 
identify the collective bargaining unit or litigation matter to be discussed, if doing so will not 
compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy.6  See OML 2016-12; OML 2013-97.  Because the 
complaint did not identify what was allegedly insufficient about the notice for the February 2 
meeting, we do not further investigate whether in this instance the description of the topic to be 
discussed at the February 2 meeting was sufficiently detailed. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Steven Fitzgerald – By email only:  
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
6 We have reviewed the Committee’s February 2 executive session minutes and it appears that they are not 
sufficiently detailed.  The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of 
all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions 
made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The minutes 
should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read 
the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See OML 2016-105.  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that meeting minutes include more than a statement that a public body held a discussion about a specified 
topic; the Law requires that the minutes summarize the discussion that was held.  See OML 2020-57; OML 2019-
167.  Based on our in camera review of the minutes of the Committee’s February 2 executive session, we note that 
the minutes appear inadequate to meet the standard required by the Open Meeting Law because they do not offer a 
sufficiently detailed summary of the Committee’s two hour discussions, and instead simply state that the Committee 
asked questions pertinent to the case.  We recommend that the Committee amend its February 2 executive session 
meeting minutes in accordance with the requirements of G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).    
 
