===PAGE 1===
MAURA IIEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 30, 2017 
OML 2017-19 
Ruth Weil, Town Attorney 
Town of Barnstable 
367 Main Street 
Hyannis, MA 02601 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Weil: 
This office received a complaint from Gary Lopez, dated November 17, 2016, alleging 
that the Barnstable Town Council (the "Council") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, 
§§ 18-25. In his complaint, Mr. Lopez alleges that the Council deliberated outside of a noticed 
meeting. The complaint was originally filed with the Council on October 3, 2016. On October 
12, 2016, the Council president responded by e-mail seeking additional information from the 
complainant, pursuant to 940 CMR 29.05(4). The complainant responded on this same date with 
additional information. The Council then responded to the complaint by letter dated October 25, 
2016. 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Council's response, and the 
request for review filed with our office. We also reviewed the Council's request for additional 
information from the complainant, as well as his response, both dated October 12, 2016. 
Additionally, we reviewed the minutes of a Council meeting held on September 29, 2016. 
Finally, we spoke with the Barnstable Town Attorney by telephone on January 19, 2017.1 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Council is a 13-member public body. For the purposes 
of convening a meeting, a quorum is defined as nine councilors. Barnstable Town Charter, 
Section 2-6(b). The complaint concerns a report that was presented to the Council by its Charter 
Review Subcommittee (the "Subcommittee"). The Subcommittee was created by the Council in 
2015 with the task of reviewing the existing town charter and recommending amendments for 
1 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
consideration by the Council. During a Council meeting held on August 11, 2016, the 
Subcommittee presented its report to the Council. This report included a recommendation that 
the position of town collector be changed from an elected position to one appointed by the town 
administrator. The Council voted to "accept" the Subcommittee's report and instructed the 
Subcommittee that, if its members wished to formally propose a change with respect to the town 
collector, it would be necessary to place the matter on the agenda for a future Council meeting. 
Following the August 11, 2016 meeting, some residents, including the complainant, sent 
letters to the Cape Cod Times objecting to the proposed change concerning the town collector. 
On September 21, 2016, the Articles Editor of the Cape Cod Times responded to a letter by email 
stating, "There is no plan to amend the charter to make the tax collector position an appointed 
one, per the Office of the Town Council." 
The Council held a meeting on September 29, 2016. During this meeting, a member of 
the public questioned whether the Council had changed its position with regard to the town 
collector citing, in part, the e-mail from the Articles Editor of the Cape Cod Times. The Council 
responded that more work needed to be done by the Subcommittee before the matter would be 
placed on the Council's agenda. To date, the Subcommittee has not formally placed the issue of 
the town collector on a Council agenda. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law is designed to eliminate "much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghighlione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. BOA, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A 
"deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority 
of the members of the public body, "unless otherwise provided in a general or special law, 
executive order or other authorizing provision." IcL 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Council deliberated outside of a noticed meeting to 
discuss the town collector position. As evidence, the complaint points to the September 21, 2016 
e-mail from the Articles Editor of the Cape Cod Times, and argues that the Council had met to 
change its position with respect to the decision of whether the town collector should be elected or 
appointed. While the Council voted to "accept" the Subcommittee's report during its August 11, 
2016 meeting, the use of the word "accept" was in the context of formally receiving the report. 
At that time, the Council took no position on the merits of the Subcommittee's proposal 
concerning the town collector. Rather, the Council relied on further action from the 
Subcommittee before the matter could be discussed further. The Article Editor's September 21, 
2016 e-mail is therefore correct—the Council had no plans to amend the charter at that time— 
and did not reflect outside deliberation by the Council. The Council's response during the 
September 29, 2016 meeting further corroborates this conclusion. Additionally, we note that the 
Council's response to the present Open Meeting Law complaint denied any improper 
deliberation. Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body's version of the 
2 
===PAGE 3===
facts. See OML 2013-73.2 Based on the foregoing, we find that the Council did not deliberate 
outside of a noticed meeting as alleged in the complaint. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Gary Lopez 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
ww w .mass .gov/ago/openmeeting. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerelv. 
Kevin W. Mangahgr^ 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 