===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
Febraary 17, 2015 
OML 2015-22 
Gerald Miller, Chair 
Brendan Sheran, Vice-Chair 
Pittsfield Public Employee Committee 
c/o Kathleen Degnan, Esq. 
Pittsfield City Solicitor 
City Hall 
70 Allen Street, Suite 200 
Pittsfield, MA 01201 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Chair Miller and Vice-Chair Sheran: 
This office received complaints from Pittsfield City Councilor Jonathan Lothrop and 
George C. Jordan, III, dated November 29, 2014 and December 1, 2014, respectively, alleging 
that the Pittsfield Public Employee Committee (the Committee) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Committee on or 
about October 16, 2014 and October 24, 2014, respectively. You responded jointly, on behalf 
of the Committee, to Mr. Lothrop's complaint by letter dated October 28, 2014. City Solicitor 
Kathleen Degnan responded to Mr. Jordan's complaint by letter dated October 27, 2014. 
Both complaints allege that the Committee held private meetings in violation of the Open 
Meeting Law, during which it discussed and voted on a change to the City of Pittsfield's 
health insurance carriers. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee is not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law and therefore could not violate the Law. We reviewed the October 16, 
2014 and October 24, 2014 complaints; your October 28, 2014 response to Mr. Lothrop's 
complaint; Attorney Degnan's October 27, 2014 response to Mr. Jordan's complaint; and the 
November 29, 2014 and December 1, 2014 complaints filed with our office, requesting 
further review. 
We find the facts as follows. On May 15, 2008, the Pittsfield City Council voted to 
create a Public Employee Committee (PEC) pursuant to G.L. c. 32B, § 19. As set forth in that 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
statute, the Committee is comprised of representatives of each of the City's unions and the 
City's retirees. Its members represent public employees in negotiations with the City (in this 
case, with Mayor Dan Bianchi) on the issue of health insurance.1 In August and September 
2014, the Committee held a series of meetings with Mayor Bianchi to negotiate a proposed 
change in health insurance carriers from Group Insurance Commission (GIC) insurance to 
Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts. The Committee conducted its negotiations with 
Mayor Bianchi pursuant to G.L. c. 150E, the statute governing collective bargaining for 
public employees in Massachusetts. Concurrently, the Committee also held informational 
meetings in September 2014 for union representatives and members to discuss the City's 
health care options. On September 30, 2014, the Committee ultimately approved the City's 
proposal to switch health insurance carriers. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law defines a "public body," in relevant part, as "a multiple 
member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative 
branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed 
or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]" G.L. c. 30A, § 18. To 
determine whether the Committee is a public body subject to the OML, there are three factors 
to consider that apply to all public bodies: 
1. The entity must be "within" government and not excluded from the definition of 
"public body"; 
2. The entity must be a "body," empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a "public purpose." 
The Committee satisfies only the first and second factors of this test. The Committee 
is a body created by statute, thus placing it "within" government by law, and has a set 
membership and voting requirement that empowers it to act collectively. However, the 
Committee fails the third prong of this test because it does not necessarily serve a public 
purpose. The Committee was created for the purpose of negotiating with the City concerning 
changes to municipal health insurance carriers. The Committee is comprised of individuals 
who represent the interests of union employees and retirees who negotiate with, rather than on 
behalf of, the City. Just as unions themselves represent and serve their members' interests, 
here the interests of the Committee do not necessarily align with those of the City. Because 
the Committee does not satisfy all three factors, we find that it is not a public body subject to 
the Open Meeting Law. Therefore, the Committee was not obliged to comply with the Law 
during the negotiation process with Mayor Bianchi concerning the change to the City's health 
insurance carrier and it did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to do so. 
1 Under G.L. c. 32B, § 19, the retiree representative has 10% of the vote and the remaining 90% of the vote is 
divided, 
"so that each collective bargaining unit represented on the [PEC] shall have a weighted vote equal to the 
proportion which the number of employees eligible for health insurance under this chapter employed in 
the bargaining unit he represents bears to the total number of employees eligible for health insurance in 
all bargaining units of the political subdivision." 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee is not a public body subject 
to the Open Meeting Law and therefore could not violate the Law. We now consider the 
complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not 
address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Committee. Please 
feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this 
letter. 
cc: Jonathan Lothrop 
George C. Jordan, III 
Kathleen Degnan, Esq., Pittsfield City Solicitor 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
Sinrerelv 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 