===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
January 31, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 16 
 
 
Alexander Castro, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite 1F 
Millis, MA 02054 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Castro: 
 
This determination addresses three complaints from Stephen Morgan alleging that the 
Ashland Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaints are dated August 12, 2021, September 7, 2021, and September 23, 2021, and you 
responded to all three complaints, on behalf of the Board, by letters dated September 1, 2021, 
September 27, 2021, and November 1, 2021, respectively.1,2  The complaints allege that i) the 
Board deliberated via email outside of a properly posted meeting; ii) minutes are insufficiently 
detailed because they do not include a list of documents used during a meeting; and iii) the 
Board failed to timely approve and provide meeting minutes.3   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating via email outside of a properly posted meeting and failing to timely approve meeting 
minutes.  We find that the Board did not violate the law in the other ways alleged.  In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s responses to the complaints, 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 
2 This office granted the Board an extension of time until November 1 to respond to the third complaint. 
3 The third complaint appears to further allege that the Board failed to timely respond to the second complaint.  The 
Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 days of receipt of a complaint, the public body review the complaint’s 
allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a 
description of any remedial action taken.  G.L.  c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  Here, the complaint was filed 
with the Board on or about September 7 and the Board responded by letter dated September 27, which was within 14 
business days.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review.  In addition, we reviewed the 
notice and minutes of the Board meetings held on July 15, August 12, and September 23, as well 
as video recordings of the meetings held on July 15, July 22, July 29, and August 12.4   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board is a five-member public body; thus, three 
members constitute a quorum. 
 
The Board duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on July 15 at 7:15 P.M.  The notice 
included three public hearings, discussion of a bond release for Hillside Estates, and review of 
two sets of meeting minutes. 
 
The July 15 meeting was held as planned and all members participated remotely via 
Zoom.  During the meeting, the Board opened the first public hearing, which pertained to the 
replacement of the Mindess School building at 90 Concord Street, and heard from the Chair of 
the Mindess School Building Committee, as well as several architects who provided an overview 
of the project and a timeline for construction of a new elementary school.  Approximately ten 
minutes into the presentation, the Town Planner interrupted to advise the Board that the Zoom 
meeting had reached capacity and no other individuals were currently able to join the meeting.  
The Board discussed its options and then took a 15 minute recess.  The Board reconvened at 7:50 
P.M. and initially announced that it would continue with the public hearing because remote 
attendance capacity had been increased.  However, the Board ultimately moved to continue all 
three of the public hearings and thereafter adjourned the meeting without further discussing the 
posted topics. 
 
The Board held a meeting on August 12 at 7:15 P.M.  At 7:33 P.M., Mr. Morgan emailed 
Vice Chair Joe Rubertone, who was chairing the meeting, to express his concerns with the 
Board’s management of public participation.  Mr. Rubertone responded, copying all Board 
members, by stating “I think your characterization is unfair and not consistent with how we have 
conducted these meetings.  That said Thank you for the feedback.”  Mr. Morgan then advised 
Mr. Rubertone that he had just violated the Open Meeting Law by expressing his opinion to a 
quorum of Board members.  Mr. Rubertone told Mr. Morgan to “Please file the OML 
complaint.” 
 
The Board held a meeting on September 23 at 7:15 P.M.  At 7:12 P.M., just prior to the 
start of the meeting, Board member Anna Tesmenitsky sent an email to all Board members, 
which stated, in pertinent part, the following: “I am sending these items for our agenda/meeting – 
documents I would like reviewed during the meeting shortly . . . .  I’ve edited both decision 
documents & offered a Letter dated 9.22.2021 and sample cut and pasted language from the 
template.”  Attached to the email was a draft decision of a Certificate of Site Plan and Design 
Plan Approval for a new elementary school, which was the subject of one of the public hearings  
discussed during the meeting.   
 
 
4 Video recordings of Board meetings are available at https://www.youtube.com/c/WACATVAshland/videos. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The Board unanimously approved minutes of the June 24 meeting during its July 29 
meeting; minutes of the July 15 meeting during its September 9 meeting; minutes of the July 22 
meeting during its September 23 meeting; minutes of the July 29 meeting during its October 14 
meeting; and minutes of the August 12 meeting during its October 20 meeting. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We Find that the Board Deliberated Outside of a Properly Posted Meeting 
on July 15 but Did Not Deliberate Prior to its September 23 Meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined in part as “a deliberation 
by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may 
be discussed at a meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For  
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public 
body. Id.   
 
The first and third complaints allege that the Board deliberated outside of a properly 
posted meeting on July 15 and September 23.  During a July 15 meeting, Mr. Morgan initiated a 
conversation with Vice Chair Rubertone, via email, regarding the Board’s management of public 
comment.  When Mr. Rubertone responded, he included a quorum of Board members and shared 
his opinion when he stated, “I think your characterization is unfair and not consistent with how 
we have conducted these meetings.”  Although this is a close call, we find that such 
communication included an opinion about the Board’s operation, i.e. how it chose to manage 
public participation during the meeting, and therefore constituted deliberation in violation of the 
Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2017-91 (discussion of a public body’s operation is public 
business within the body’s jurisdiction); but see OML 2018-91 (conversations that reflect 
interpersonal disagreements among Board members, rather than Board business, do not 
constitute deliberation).5  We recognize that it can be difficult to determine whether, under the 
circumstances, a given communication constitutes deliberation under the Open Meeting Law, 
and therefore our office specifically cautions public bodies on the use of electronic 
communications.  See OML 2017-88; OML 2014-80.   
 
We do not find Mr. Rubertone’s follow-up statement to Mr. Morgan to “Please file the 
OML complaint” to be deliberation, even though it was shared with a quorum of members, as it 
was administrative in nature.  See OML 2021-180; 2021-112.  Likewise, we do not find that the 
 
5 Open Meeting Law declinations and determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.msss.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
email sent to a quorum of members from Board member Tesmenitsky just prior to the start of the 
Board’s September 23 meeting to be deliberation.  Rather, the intent of this communication was 
to share a document that the Board planned to discuss at the meeting.  Where this document was 
shared moments before the start of the meeting, we find that it was simply the distribution of a 
document during a meeting and therefore did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 
2021-91; OML 2020-88; OML 2020-48.  
 
II. The Minutes of the Board’s July 15 Meeting Were Sufficiently Detailed. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).    
 
The second and third complaints allege that the minutes from the meeting held on July 15 
fail to include a list of documents used during the meeting, as required by the Open Meeting 
Law.  Here, the minutes contain the date and place of the meeting, the members who were 
present, a summary of the discussions, and the decisions made and actions taken, including a 
record of all votes.  We acknowledge that the minutes do not contain a list of documents.  
However, we find that the Board did not use any documents during the meeting and thus was not 
required to include a list of documents in the minutes.  The Open Meeting Law does not define 
what it means for a document to be used at a meeting but, at a minimum, it is clear that where a 
document is physically present, verbally identified, and the contents are discussed by the 
members of a public body during an open meeting, it has been “used” for purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law.  See OML 2014-12; OML 2012-42.  During the July 15 meeting, the Chair of the 
Mindess School Building Committee, as well as several architects, provided the Board with an 
overview of and timeline for construction of a new elementary school.  Although documents 
were physically present, the Board adjourned the meeting before ever being able to discuss their 
content.  As such, we find that the minutes of the July 15 meeting contain the required 
information and the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by not including a list of 
documents.  See OML 2017-45; OML 2021-42. 
 
III. We Decline to Review Whether the Board Timely Responded to a Request 
for Meeting Minutes but Do Find that the Board Failed to Timely Approve 
Five Sets of Minutes.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to create and approve meeting minutes, 
whether for open or executive session, in a timely manner.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  “Timely 
manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is 
later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.”  940 CMR 29.11; see OML 
2018-48.  Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next 
meeting.  See OML 2018-67; OML 2017-133.  Minutes of an open session, if they exist and 
whether approved or in draft form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 
days.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22 (c). 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
The second and third complaints allege that the Commission failed to timely respond to a 
request for meeting minutes.  A request for meeting minutes that is directed to a public body will 
fall under the Open Meeting Law and requires a response in 10 calendar days.  See G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 22(c), (g); OML 2019-163; OML 2019-20; OML 2017-50.  On the other hand, a request for 
minutes that is directed to a clerk or other municipal employee as Records Access Officer will 
likely fall under the Public Records Law and requires a response in 10 business days.  See G.L. 
c. 66, § 10; OML 2019-126; OML 2019-68.  On September 7, the complainant sent his request 
for five sets of Board meeting minutes to the Public Records Access Officer, only, via the town’s 
public records portal and therefore his request fell within the Public Records Law.  The Division 
of Open Government’s statutory authority concerns compliance only with the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  As this allegation concerns compliance with the Public Records 
Law, it falls outside the scope of this office’s jurisdiction and we decline to review it.  See OML 
2020-8; OML 2015-17; OML Declination 3-11-15 (Wayland School Committee).    
   
The complaints further allege that the Board failed to create and approve five sets of 
minutes of meetings held between June and August 2021.  Specifically, the complainant points to 
a vacant section of an Ashland municipal website to support the inference that the Board failed to 
create and approve these meeting minutes.6  We do not find this to be evidence that the Board 
failed to create and approve minutes because the Open Meeting Law does not require a public 
body to post minutes to a website; therefore, the lack of minutes posted to a website does not 
necessarily indicate that the minutes were not timely approved.  See OML 2020-19; OML 2018-
107.  However, after reviewing relevant meeting minutes and video recordings of Board 
meetings, we find that the Board failed to timely approve the five sets of minutes of meetings, 
which were held on June 24, July 15, July 22, July 29, and August 12, where the minutes were 
not approved within the later of the next three meetings or 30 days following each meeting.  See 
OML 2021-155.  As such, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
approve these minutes in a timely manner. 
 
We remind the Board that the responsibility for complying with the Open Meeting Law 
rests with public bodies and members of such bodies, not with individual public employees, such 
as administrative staff.  See OML 2018-105.  We understand the demands on a public body with 
limited staff; however, the Board is still obligated to timely approve minutes.  See OML 2018-
111; OML 2017-115.  If staff resources are not available to create minutes for the Board to 
approve, then Board members must take on this responsibility to ensure compliance with the law.  
See OML 2017-115.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a properly posted meeting on July 15 and failing to approve five sets of 
 
6 The complaint also suggests that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law where “minutes are not taken during 
the meeting” but are “transcribed after the fact.”  The Open Meeting Law does not require that minutes be created 
during a meeting but rather that minutes be created and approved “within the next three public body meetings or 
within 30 days, whichever is later.”  See 940 CMR 29.11.  Moreover, the Law permits a public body to prepare 
minutes from notes or a recording of a meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e) (minutes of any open session, the notes, 
recordings or other materials used in the preparation of such minutes shall be public records in their entirety).   
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
minutes of meetings held between June and August in a timely manner.  We order immediate 
and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations 
could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Stephen Morgan – By email only:  
Ashland Planning Board – By email only:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
