===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 1, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 148 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
Kristen Reed 
Chair, Truro Select Board 
P.O. Box 2030 
Truro, MA 02666 
 
By email only: kreed@truro-ma.gov 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Reed: 
 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty on May 4, 2022, alleging that the 
Truro Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 4, and Vice-Chair Robert Weinstein 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated April 19.  The complaint alleges that the Board 
i) posted an insufficiently specific notice for its March 8 meeting; and ii) failed to periodically 
review executive session minutes. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting 
an insufficiently specific meeting notice and by failing to periodically review executive session 
minutes.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, the request for further review, and the notices and open session 
minutes of the Board’s March 8, April 12, and June 14 meetings.  We also reviewed a video 
recording of the Board’s March 8 meeting.
2  Additionally, we communicated by email with 
Barbara Carboni, Truro Town Planner and Land Use Counsel, on behalf of the Board. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On March 4, the Board posted notice of a meeting to be 
held on Tuesday, March 8 at 4:30 P.M.  The notice listed eleven topics, including an executive 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
2 A video recording of the March 8 meeting is available at http://trurotv.truro-
ma.gov/CablecastPublicSite/show/5283?channel=1.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”), which allows a public body to enter 
executive session to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation.  The 
notice did not identify any litigation matter or collective bargaining unit to be discussed.  
Additionally, under the topic, “Board/Committee/Commission Appointments A. Interview and 
Appoint,” the notice did not identify any prospective appointees. 
 
The March 8 meeting was held as planned and began with the noticed executive session.  
During the executive session, the Board discussed strategy for collective bargaining with four 
unions: the Laborers’ International Union of North America; the American Federation of State, 
County, and Municipal Employees; the Truro Police Federation; and the Truro Permanent 
Firefighters.  Once convened in open session, then-Chair Weinstein proceeded through the 
remaining notice topics.  When he reached the topic related to appointments, he observed, “[w]e 
have no Board, Committee, or Commission appointments this afternoon.”  No Board member 
responded, and the Board immediately moved to the next topic on the notice.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The March 8 Meeting Notice Was Insufficiently Specific with Respect to the 
Executive Session Topic. 
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be 
printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the 
meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Id.  
The topics must be listed with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues 
to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(1)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be 
sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand 
the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35. 
 
Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law.  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a).  Among the ten enumerated 
purposes, a public body may convene in executive session to “discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.”  G.L. c. 30A, 
§21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).   
 
Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also 
District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] 
precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary . . . because that 
is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, 
and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”).  
When convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body must identify the 
collective bargaining unit with which it will be negotiating or the litigation matter it will be 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
discussing, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy.  See OML 2019-163; 
OML 2016-43; OML 2016-12.  
 
The complaint alleges that the notice for the Board’s March 8 meeting was insufficiently 
specific because it failed to identify the collective bargaining unit or litigation matter to be 
discussed in executive session under Purpose 3.  The Board acknowledges, and we agree, that it 
should have identified on the meeting notice the specific collective bargaining units that were the 
subject of the executive session discussion.  Therefore, we find that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently specific meeting notice. See OML 2018-70.  We note 
that on April 19, in response to this complaint, the Board amended the notice for its March 8 
meeting, which is available on the Town of Truro’s website, to specify the four unions that were 
the subject of the Purpose 3 discussion.  
 
The complaint further alleges that the notice topic, “Board/Committee/Commission 
Appointments A. Interview and Appoint,” was insufficiently specific because it failed to identify 
the names of individuals under consideration for appointment.  When reviewing a meeting notice 
for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting notice 
standing alone.  See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155.  Rather, we review what the public body 
actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently specific to 
reasonably inform the public of the topic to be discussed.  See OML 2015-109.  When a public 
body does not actually deliberate on a noticed topic, the public body cannot violate the Open 
Meeting Law with respect to that topic, even if it would have been insufficiently specific had the 
public body proceeded with its deliberation.  See OML 2020-53; OML 2015-63; OML 2014-81.  
Because the Board did not discuss appointments during its March 8 meeting, we find no 
violation with respect to the sufficiency of the topic concerning appointments.  
 
II. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Periodically Review 
Executive Session Minutes for Public Release. 
 
Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.”  G.L. 
c. 30A, § 22(f).  When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and 
any documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client 
privilege or an exemption to the public records law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, 
from disclosure.  See id.  Public bodies have an obligation to review the minutes of executive 
sessions at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of the minutes is 
warranted.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1).  The public body must announce the result of this review at 
the next meeting following the review and record that determination in the corresponding 
minutes.  Id.  Although “reasonable interval” is not defined by the law, our office has found a 
quarterly review or a review every six months to be appropriate.  See OML 2019-44; OML 
2017-104; OML 2015-166; OML 2013-180.  
 
The complaint alleges that, generally, the Board does not “review executive session 
minutes for public release on a regular basis.”  The Board does not dispute this; therefore, we 
find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to review executive session 
minutes at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure was warranted.  In 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
response to the complaint, on June 14, the Board reviewed and released minutes for executive 
sessions held on September 9, 2021, October 8, 2021, October 12, 2021, and February 11, 2022.  
Likewise, at its April 12 meeting, the Board reviewed the minutes of its March 8 executive 
session for possible release but determined that disclosure at that time would defeat the purpose 
of the executive session.  To the extent there are additional sets of executive session minutes that 
the Board has not yet reviewed to determine whether they should be released to the public, we 
order the Board to perform such a review within sixty (60) days of receipt of this letter.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board  violated the Open Meeting by 
posting an insufficiently specific notice for its March 8 meeting and by failing to periodically 
review executive session minutes.  We order immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, and caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to 
violate the law.  In addition, we order the Board to review all outstanding executive session 
minutes in accordance with Section 2 of this determination within sixty (60) days of receipt of 
this letter. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
  
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn  
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by: Caitlyn Galvin, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Ronald Beaty – By email only:   
Rober
t Weinstein, Vice-Chair, Truro Select Board – By email only: rweinstein@truro-
ma.gov 
Barbara Carboni, Truro Town Planner and Land Use Counsel – By email only: 
bcarboni@truro-ma.gov 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
