===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONEASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 4,2018 
OML 2018-47 
Katherine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq. 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan on January 15, 2018, alleging 
that the Ashland Charter Review Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or 
about December 11, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, in a 
letter dated January 12, 2018. In his complaint, Mr. Morgan alleges that the Committee 
improperly communicated by email. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. 
We also reviewed the emails at issue as well as the Committee's January 11, 2018 meeting 
minutes. 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a seven-member body, thus four 
members constitute a quorum. On November 11, Committee Chair Roberta Soolman emailed 
the Committee regarding a recent determination issued by our office resolving a separate 
Open Meeting Law complaint. In that determination, our office had ordered the Committee to 
include more detail in certain meeting minutes. Chair Soolan's email began, "FYI: PLEASE 
DO NOT REPLY TO ALL" and continued, "I received a decision rendered by the AG's 
office regarding an open meeting law complaint." The email summarized the determination's 
finding and order, which included an order to revise the meeting minutes within 30 days and, 
"[p]ending hearing back from [town counsel] as to her recommended course of action, we will 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise specified. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
likely need to schedule committee meeting in the near future," Subsequently, on November 
19, Chair Soolman sent a follow-up email to the Committee with the same first sentence, 
"FYI: PLEASE DO NOT REPLY TO ALL" and continued, "we need to meet to approve 
revised minutes and notify the AG's office that we have done so within 30 days of receiving 
their decision which was dated November 7. Please let me know your availability for each of 
the dates listed below.. .Revised minutes, an agenda and any other materials will be sent to 
you separately." Committee members replied individually to Chair Soolman's scheduling 
request. 
That same day, Chair Soolman emailed a draft version of the revised minutes to 
Committee member Kenneth Rush, copying Committee member Betsy Emberlay, requesting 
that he forward any additional revisions to Ms. Emberlay. Mr. Rush emailed Ms. Emberlay 
on November 20, stating he had nothing to add to Chair Soolman's proposed revisions. Ms. 
Emberlay emailed Chair Soolman on November 25, explaining that she had not had a chance 
to review the minutes. This complaint, which included the emails at issue, was listed as a 
document used during the Committee's January 11, 2018 meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 3 OA, 
§§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through 
any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction^]" Id. 
The complaint alleges that the Committee deliberated by email regarding a recent 
determination issued by our office ordering the revision of certain meeting minutes. Chair 
Soolman sent two emails to the Committee regarding the determination. In a November 11 
email to the Committee, she summarized the determination and suggested that a meeting to 
approve the revised minutes may be forthcoming. In a follow-up email to the Committee on 
November 19, she stated that a meeting needed to be scheduled to review the minutes and 
asked the Committee members to her reply individually with their availability. We find that 
both emails concerned the scheduling of a meeting, which is permissible under the Open 
Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (deliberation does not include scheduling information). 
Although the November 11 email went further than scheduling and also included a summary 
of the determination, this summary also did not violate the Open Meeting Law as it 
constituted a report to be discussed at the next meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (deliberation does 
not include "the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided that no opinion of a member is expressed"). We find that because the email was 
sent for the main purpose of scheduling a meeting and sending a report summarizing the 
determination for discussion at the Committee's next meeting, it did not violate the law. See 
2 
===PAGE 3===
OML 2015-98; OML 2013-17.2 We note, however, that had the email included Chair 
Soolman's opinion about the determination, for example, such an expression would have been 
improper deliberation. See OML 2018-2. 
Additionally, email communications between Chair Soolman, Mr. Rush and Ms. 
Emberlay regarding the revision of meeting minutes were sent between a subquorum of the 
Committee, which were not otherwise shared with other members, and were therefore not 
deliberation under the Open Meeting Law. OML 2017-119. Accordingly, the Committee did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law. Because it is sometimes difficult to determine whether 
communication constitutes deliberation under the Open Meeting Law, we caution public 
bodies on the use of electronic communications except when sharing scheduling or procedural 
information, or distributing documents to be discussed at a meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; 
OML 2014-80; OML 2017-88. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. Lhis determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Stephen Morgan 
Ashland Charter Review Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L, c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
http://www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 