===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 15, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 94 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Chair James Muse 
Mattapoisett School Committee 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Muse: 
This office received a complaint from Stephanie Clark on January 19, 2021, alleging that 
the Mattapoisett School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on November 16 and the 
Committee responded by letter dated December 8.1 In her complaint, Ms. Clark alleges that the 
Committee did not post notice on its website 48 hours in advance of its October 22 meeting.2  
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
and find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, 
and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed a copy of the original 
October 22, 2020 meeting notice, which was provided to us by the Mattapoisett Town Clerk. 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must be 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 The complaint also alleges that the meeting notice for the Committee’s October 22 meeting contained a Zoom link 
which was not “clickable.” Although we encourage public bodies to make access to remote meetings convenient for 
the public, we would not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law where a hyperlink was accurate but not active on 
a meeting notice. Furthermore, where, as here, a public body’s official notice posting location is a physical bulletin 
board, it would be impossible for a public body to provide active hyperlinks in its meeting notice. Accordingly, we 
decline to review this allegation. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of 
Commissioners). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the 
meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. Id.  
 The Law requires that the municipal clerk post notice of meetings in a manner 
conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on the municipal building in which the 
clerk’s office is located. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c). Alternatively, a municipality may adopt its website 
as the official notice posting location. 940 CMR 29.03(2).   
 On October 20, at approximately 4:10 p.m., the Mattapoisett Town Clerk posted a 
meeting notice on a bulletin board outside of the Mattapoisett town hall for the Committee’s 
meeting to take place on October 22 at 6:30 p.m. A municipality may only have one official 
notice posting location for purposes of complying with the Open Meeting Law, though public 
bodies are welcome to post notice of their meetings in additional locations if they choose. See 
OML 2021-63; OML 2021-17.3 According to our records, Mattapoisett has not adopted a 
website as its official notice posting location for town meeting notices. Therefore, the bulletin 
board outside town hall is the official notice posting location for all Mattapoisett public bodies, 
including the Committee. Thus, the Town Clerk posted the notice for the Committee’s October 
22 meeting more than 48 hours in advance in the official notice posting location for the 
Committee’s notices, in compliance with the Open Meeting Law. Because the Committee’s 
official notice posting location is the bulletin board outside town hall, there is no requirement 
that a meeting notice be posted to the website, and we do not address Ms. Clark’s allegation that 
the October 22 meeting was not posted to the Committee’s website until less than 48 hours 
before the meeting.  
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Stephanie Clark (via e-mail:  
 Mattapoisett Town Clerk Catherine Heuberger (via e-mail:  
  
 
 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 