===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
November 30, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 217 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
John W. Coderre 
Town Administrator 
Town of Northborough 
c/o Diane Wackell, Executive Assistant 
via e-mail: dwackell@town.northborough.ma.us 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Coderre: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on September 29, 2022, alleging 
that the Northborough Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 15, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated September 29.1  The complaint alleges that the 
notice for the Board’s September 12 meeting failed to list the names of candidates being 
considered for appointment to the Board of Library Trustees, Scholarship Committee, and Board 
of Registrars, and failed to identify the union to be discussed in executive session.  
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed the notice and 
minutes for the Board’s September 12 meeting.
2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
September 12 at 7:00 PM.  Included on the meeting notice were Item 13, “Recommendation for 
Appointments to the Board of Library Trustees, Scholarship Committee and the Board of 
Registrars,” and Item 17, “Executive Session - pursuant to M.G.L., Chapter 30A, Section 21, 
Subsection 3 (Collective Bargaining Strategy Planning) due to the Chair’s determination that a 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
2 We note that the minutes of the Board’s September 12 meeting are quite detailed,  and we commend the Board and 
specifically Executive Assistant Diane M. Wackell for the thoroughness and clarity of  the Board’s meeting minutes. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
discussion regarding these matters in an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
position of the Board.”   
The Board convened on September 12 as scheduled.  During the meeting the Board voted 
to appoint Brittany Burns and Patricia Fontes to the Board of Library Trustees, Cynthia Moore to 
the Scholarship Committee, and James Harrington to the Board of Registrars.  The Board also 
convened in executive session to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining but did 
not identify the specific union to be discussed. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The September 12 Meeting Notice Failed to Identify Candidates for Appointment. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting, not including weekends and holidays, and include a “listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Public bodies are 
required to list topics in a meeting notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally 
consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could 
read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion.  See OML 
2018-7; OML 2015-35.3  In general, a public body must include on its meeting notices the names 
of the specific individuals who are being considered for employment or appointment, if known 
48 hours in advance of the meeting.  See OML 2020-80; OML 2016-167; OML 2011-23. 
Even for public bodies that use a website as their official notice posting location and 
therefore may post supporting documentation alongside the meeting notice, a meeting notice 
must include on the notice itself the level of specificity that the Open Meeting Law requires; we 
do not review the contents of an accompanying meeting packet.  See OML 2020-31 (finding that 
a public body violated the Open Meeting Law where required level of specificity was contained 
within a meeting packet but was not included on the notice itself); OML 2020-21. 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to identify on the notice for the board’s 
Sept
ember 12 meeting the names of candidates being considered for appointment to the Board of 
Library Trustees, Scholarship Committee, and Board of Registrars.  The Board explains that the 
names of the individuals were included in the agenda packet for the September 12 meeting that 
was posted to the Town’s website.  Therefore, the Board asserts that it complied with the Open 
Meeting Law when the names were made available in advance of the meeting as part of the 
regular public notice process.  Although we acknowledge that the names were included in the 
meeting packet and we find no indication of any intent to conceal this information from the 
public, nonetheless we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include 
on the meeting notice itself the level of detail that the Open Meeting Law requires. 
  
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-m eeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
I. The September 12 Meeting Notice Failed to Identify the Union the Board Planned to 
Discuss in Executive Session. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a).  Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also 
District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] 
precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is 
the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and 
the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”). 
Executive session Purpose 3 allows a public body to enter executive session to “discuss 
stra
tegy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3).  When convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, 
a public body must identify the collective bargaining unit with whom it will be negotiating, if 
doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy.  See OML 2022-182; OML 2020-
130; OML 2018-139; OML 2016-43; OML 2015-87. 
The Board acknowledges that the union whose contract was the subject of the ex ecutive 
session should have been identified on the notice for the September 2 meeting where doing so 
would not have compromised the Board’s bargaining position, and has committed to include 
such information in the future.  We remind the Board that the union also should be identified in 
the Chair’s announcement in open session prior to convening in executive session. 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently specific meeting notice that failed to identify the specific candidates 
being considered for appointment and failed to identify the union being discussed in executive 
session.  We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law 
and caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.   
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via e- mail: ) 
Northborough Board of Selectmen (via e-mail to Mitch Cohen, Chair: 
mcohen@town.northborough.ma.us) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
