===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 27, 2018 
OML 2018-40 
Middleton Board of Selectmen 
c/o Andrew Sheehan 
Middleton Town Administrator 
48 South Main Street 
Middleton, MA 01949 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Sheehan: 
This office received a complaint from Teresa Buono on January 19, 2018, alleging that 
the Middleton Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about December 13, 
and the Board responded in a letter dated December 29. In her complaint, Ms. Buono alleges 
that a topic listed on the Board's December 5 meeting notice failed to indicate that it was a 
public hearing and, at that meeting, voted to adopt the tax classification during a recess of that 
meeting.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notice, minutes and video recording from the Board's December 5 meeting.3 
Finally, we spoke with the complainant by telephone on February 7. 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise specified. 
2 Ms. Buono also alleges that the Board failed to properly open and close the public hearing and failed to give 
the public sufficient time to review and comment on the tax classifications. Given that our office is charged 
specifically with reviewing complaints to determine compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25, we decline to review, and offer no opinion on, whether there was a violation of any separate hearing 
law. See OML Declination 12-22-15 (Avon Zoning Board of Appeals). 
3 The video recording is available at http://middletonma.gov/CivicMedia?CID=Board-of-Selectmen-9#player. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On December 5, the Board held its annual tax 
classification hearing pursuant to G.L. c. 40, § 56, which specifically requires the Board to 
"conduct a public hearing" on the adoption of tax percentages borne by each class of property 
in town. The Board listed this topic on its meeting notice as follows:4 
Tax classification hearing for Fiscal Year 2018 
Review of Fiscal Year 2018 final valuations approved by state Department of Revenue 
votes required under Massachusetts General Law, Chapter 59, Section 2: 
1. To discount up to 25% of Open Space (No, as there are no qualifying parcels) 
2. To adopt up to a 20% Residential Exemption (Yes or No, and if Yes, at what %) 
3. To adopt up to a 10% Small Commercial Exemption (No, as there are no eligible 
parcels) 
4. To determine the percentage of the tax levy to be borne by the town main property 
classes: 
Residential and CIP (Commercial, Industrial and Personal): 
A. 100% factor or unity for both classes 
B. A CIP factor between 100-150% of Residential factor as shown on options chart 
During the meeting, the Board held the hearing and reviewed a packet of information 
prepared by the Board of Assessors. The Board did not receive any public comment as only 
two individuals were in the audience, one of whom was the assistant assessor. At the 
hearing's conclusion, the Board voted on each tax classification and then voted to recess the 
meeting to formally adopt the tax classifications and rate determinations. During the recess, 
the Board digitally signed the tax rate recapitulation form for submission to the Department of 
Revenue. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body must post notice of every meeting at 
least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). Notices must include "a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." Id. The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We 
generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could 
4 Separately, on November 29, the Board also published notice in a local newspaper of a public hearing on 
property tax classification. The notice invited taxpayers to present oral testimony during the hearing or submit 
written comments to the Board by December 5. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See 
OML 2015-35.5 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to indicate on its December 5 meeting 
notice that its annual hearing on tax classifications was a public hearing for which the public 
had a right to participate. As listed on the notice, the topic provided the public with a 
substantial amount of detail about the hearing. However, as the complainant pointed out, it 
failed to mention one pertinent fact: that the hearing would be a public hearing, during which 
the public is afforded certain rights that they may not otherwise be afforded during a meeting 
of a public body. See G.L. c. 30A, §20(g) (under the Open Meeting Law, "[n]o person shall 
address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair"). We find that the topic 
as posted provided the public with sufficient detail about the hearing, including the fact that it 
was indeed a hearing, see OML 2016-60, and therefore met the requirements for posting 
notice under the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2017-82; OML 2017-33; OML 2016-107. 
Accordingly, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. That being said, 
because a public hearing particularly connotes that public testimony will be received, we 
strongly encourage the Board to specifically identify a public hearing as such in its meeting 
notices going forward. 
The complaint further alleges that the Board formally adopted the tax classifications 
during a recess of the meeting. We have previously said that the act of signing a document 
outside of a meeting after the terms have been discussed and approved during a meeting is an 
administrative task and is not deliberation. See OML 2013-84; G.L. c. 30A, § 18 
("deliberation" is defined, in relevant part, as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction"). Because the Board had already voted on the tax 
classifications during its meeting and took a recess for the sole purpose of digitally signing the 
tax rate recapitulation form, its actions during the recess did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Teresa Buono 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 