===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Alissa Ocasio 
Legal Advisor 
Boston Public Schools 
2300 Washington Street 
Roxbury, MA 02119 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
June 22, 2015 
OML 2015-84 
TEL:(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Ocasio: 
This office received a complaint from James Vaznis, dated May 4, alleging that the 
Boston School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on March 30, and the Committee 
responded by letter dated April 10. In his complaint, Mr. Vaznis alleges that the Committee 
convened in executive session on March 25 without a proper purpose. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Committee's response; 
and the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed, in camera, the 
minutes of an executive session held by the Committee on March 25. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. In 2010, the United States Department of Justice and the 
United States Department of Education Office of Civil Rights (collectively, "the United States") 
initiated a complaint against the Boston Public Schools ("BPS") alleging that BPS programs 
designed to assist English language learning students did not meet standards set by federal law. 
In 2010, BPS entered a Settlement Agreement with the United States, promising to make certain 
changes to the programs at issue over the next several years in order to avoid the need for 
litigation. In 2012, the parties entered into a Successor Settlement Agreement. Both agreements 
provided that the United States would monitor progress made by BPS, and the United States 
reserved the right to initiate litigation to enforce the Settlement Agreements if BPS was not in 
compliance. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
===PAGE 2===
On March 2, BPS received a letter from the United States outlining several areas where it 
believed that required standards were not being met. At no point in this letter did the United 
States directly raise the prospect of initiating a lawsuit against BPS. The Committee held a 
meeting on March 25. The notice for this meeting listed an anticipated executive session "to 
discuss litigation strategy." During the March 25 meeting, the Committee entered executive 
session "to discuss litigation strategy related to the Department of Justice." 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted to "eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). However, the Open Meeting Law permits public bodies 
to enter executive, or closed, session and conduct deliberations outside of public view for ten 
specific purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). A public body may enter executive session to discuss 
"strategy with respect to... litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the... 
litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) 
("Purpose 3"). A public body may convene in executive session by citing Purpose 3 only if 
litigation is pending or clearly or imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. See 
Perrvman v. School Committee of Boston. 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2015-14; 
OML 2013-108; OML 2012-43. 
Here, the minutes of the March 25 executive session have not been released and we 
therefore do not reveal their specific contents. However, we note that, during this executive 
session, the Committee discussed the United States' March 2 letter, as well as potential 
consequences if compliance standards were not met. Although the March 2 letter does not 
explicitly threaten litigation, in the settlement agreements, the United States reserved the right to 
initiate litigation if its terms were not satisfied. Where a party has outstanding obligations to 
perform under a settlement agreement, and litigation is likely to result if its terms are not met, 
discussions about compliance with such obligations may take place in an executive session 
convened under Purpose 3. See OML 2012-70. Because BPS has outstanding obligations yet to 
be performed under the settlement agreements, and because the United States asserts that BPS is 
not fully in compliance with those terms, we find that litigation was demonstrably likely. As 
such, the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing the March 2 letter in 
an executive session convened pursuant to Purpose 3. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
DISCUSSION 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: James Vaznis, The Boston Globe 
Boston School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 