===PAGE 1===
  THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
1 
 
June 16, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 68 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Joan Stein, Esq. 
Stoneham, Chandler & Miller LLP 
JStein@SCMLLP.COM 
  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Stein: 
 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty on November 4, 2019
1, alleging that 
the Falmouth School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on October 3, and you 
responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated October 22. The complaint alleges that 1) 
the Committee posted an insufficiently detailed meeting notice for its September 10 meeting 
when it failed to identify the collective bargaining unit that was the subject of an executive 
session discussion under Purpose 3; and 2) that the Committee did not timely approve the 
minutes of its July 16 meeting.    
  
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently detailed notice for its September 10 meeting. We find that the 
Committee did not violate the Law when it approved its July 16 meeting minutes at its 
September 10 meeting. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original Open Meeting 
Law complaint, the Committee’s response, the request for further review, the notice for the 
September 10 meeting, the September 10 open and executive session minutes, and the Town’s 
municipal website. We also communicated with counsel for the Committee2 by email and phone. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 Hereinafter, all dates are in 2019, unless otherwise stated.  
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
  
FACTS  
 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee convened a meeting on July 16. Thereafter, 
the Committee met on August 12, August 21, and September 10. During the September 10 
meeting, the Committee voted to approve the minutes of the July 16 meeting.  
 
The notice for the Committee’s September 10 meeting included a single executive 
session topic: “MOVE into executive session to discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining. Having these discussions in open session may be detrimental to the school 
committee’s position. It is expected that the School Committee will then return to open session 
for the remainder of the meeting.”
3 
 
During the September 10 meeting, Committee Secretary Melissa Keefe moved to enter 
“into executive session to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining,” and stated that 
“[h]aving these discussions in open session may be detrimental to the school committee’s 
position.”
4 The September 10 executive session minutes have not been released to the public; 
therefore, we only summarize their content here.5 During the September 10 executive session the 
Superintendent gave the Committee an update regarding a grievance filed on behalf of a union 
that the Superintendent had denied and the union was considering appealing to the next level, 
which would result in the grievance being brought before the Committee. After this update, the 
Superintendent answered questions concerning the process for approving private schools and the 
status of ongoing negotiations with two bargaining units.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 We remind the Committee that the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations require that the date and 
time that a meeting notice is posted be conspicuously recorded on or with the notice. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(d). The 
September 10 notice does not include the time it was posted, and it is unclear whether the date in small type at the 
bottom of the notice is the date the notice was posted.   
4 The Committee committed several procedural missteps when entering into executive session, including that the 
Chair did not state the purpose for entering into executive session, did not make the required statement under 
Purpose 3 that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the Committee, and did 
not announce whether the Committee would reconvene in open session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3),(b). Additionally, 
although the open session minutes reflect that a roll call vote was taken, the vote of each member was not entered 
into the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(2). See OML 2019-86 (“The Open Meeting Law expressly requires not only 
that a roll call vote be conducted before entering executive session, but also that the roll call vote be ‘entered into the 
minutes.’ These requirements are intended to create a clear record of what occurred and to reflect the significance of 
holding a discussion behind closed doors.”). 
5 The Committee did not approve minutes for the September 10 executive session until February 11, 2020, well 
outside of the time allowed for under 940 CMR 29.11(2). We remind the Committee of its obligations to create and 
maintain accurate meeting minutes in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney 
General’s regulations, including the requirement that all meeting minutes, including executive session minutes, 
contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the 
minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); 940 CMR 29.11(2); OML 2013-
14. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
  
DISCUSSION  
 
1. The Committee’s September 10 Meeting Notice Was Insufficiently Detailed.  
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). To that end, the Law requires that all meetings of a public 
body be conducted in an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). 
Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any one or more of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Executive session topics must be 
described, both in the meeting notice and in the announcement during open session, in as much 
detail as possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). See also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. 
Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for 
convening in executive session is necessary . . . because that is the only notification given the 
public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would 
know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”). 
 
Based on the language of the Committee’s meeting notice, it appears that the Committee 
intended to enter executive session under Purpose 3, which allows a public body to enter 
executive session to “discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body 
and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). Grievance matters may be discussed under 
Purpose 3 because they are part of the collective bargaining process. See Ghiglione v. School 
Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 73 (1978) (“[c]ollective bargaining sessions 
encompass not only the negotiations leading to the agreement, but also the resolution of 
grievances pursuant to the collective bargaining agreement”). When convening in executive 
session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body must identify the collective bargaining unit that will 
be discussed, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy. See OML 2018-
139; OML 2016-43; OML 2015-87.6 Likewise, a public body should disclose that an executive 
session discussion pertains to a grievance matter, unless doing so would compromise the purpose 
for the executive session. See OML 2019-37. Although we generally defer to a public body’s 
assessment of whether the inclusion of such details would compromise the purpose for the 
executive session, the public body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for that claim 
if challenged. See OML 2018-139. 
 
After reviewing the Committee’s response and discussing the matter further with counsel, 
we find that the Committee has not demonstrated a reasonable basis for believing that including 
additional details would have compromised the purpose for the executive session. In fact, we 
find that the Committee has provided no explanation at all for why it believed that disclosing that 
the executive session pertained to a grievance matter would have compromised the purpose for 
the executive session, despite specifically pressing the Committee for such information. With 
regard to the omission of the identity of the bargaining unit, we understand that the Committee 
believed that it had discretion to withhold this information because the grievance matter to be 
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
  
discussed was controversial, the Committee did not want to jeopardize its autonomy when 
deciding the grievance matter, and the Committee believed that its decision in this particular 
grievance matter could influence future grievance matters filed by other collective bargaining 
units. The Committee did not explain why it believed that identifying the bargaining unit in the 
notice would have jeopardized its autonomy, but did explain that it believed that identifying the 
bargaining unit would have made other bargaining units aware that the Committee was 
discussing the controversial question at issue in the grievance. The Committee further explained 
that if it became generally known that the Committee was discussing the controversial question 
at issue on September 10, when the Committee finally decided the grievance matter at a future 
date, it would be generally known that the Committee had taken a position on the controversial 
question and this would influence future grievance matters.  
 
The Open Meeting Law does not give a public body broad discretion to withhold the 
nature of executive session discussions or the identity of the bargaining unit to be discussed 
simply because the topic is controversial or it would be inconvenient for the public body. Rather, 
to justify nondisclosure, the Committee would have had to conclude that disclosure would 
“compromis[e] the purpose for which the executive session was called.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). 
That “purpose,” under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3), was “[t]o discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining . . ..” Thus, the Committee must supply information sufficient for the 
Attorney General to determine whether there was a reasonable basis for the Committee to have 
reached the conclusion that disclosure of the nature of the executive session discussion and the 
identity of the bargaining unit would have had a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of 
the Committee. Furthermore, because the purpose of the executive session was to discuss a 
particular grievance, the Committee’s conclusion that disclosure would harm its negotiating 
position must relate to the Committee’s bargaining position in the particular matter under 
discussion in executive session on September 10, rather than to generic harms to the town’s 
overall collective bargaining strategies with regard to future potential grievance matters. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). Here, we find the Committee’s stated concerns regarding disclosure of 
the nature of the executive session discussion and the identity of the bargaining unit are not 
reasonable bases for withholding that information. Because the Committee has not demonstrated 
that identifying the bargaining unit and the nature of the discussion reasonably may have 
compromised its bargaining position with regard to the grievance discussed at the September 10 
meeting, the Committee’s failure to include that information on the meeting notice violated the 
Open Meeting Law.  
 
We note that in an earlier determination issued by our office, OML 2019-132, we found 
that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in a similar manner by failing to identify the 
collective bargaining unit that was the subject of an executive session topic. Committing a 
similar violation of the Open Meeting Law after having been warned by this office may be 
considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. However, that determination was issued on 
October 23, after the September 10 meeting took place. Therefore, we do not find the 
Committee’s violation to be intentional in this instance; however, we warn the Committee that 
similar violations in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law and may 
result in imposition of a penalty.  
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
  
2. The Committee Discussed Other Matters in Executive Session on September 10 That 
Were Not Included in the Meeting Notice. 
 
Although not raised in the complaint, we note that after the Committee discussed the 
grievance matter in executive session on September 10, it proceeded to discuss additional topics 
in executive session, including a process related to private schools and the status of ongoing 
negotiations with other bargaining units. Neither topic was included on the notice for the 
September 10 meeting, nor is it clear that either topic was appropriate for executive session. The 
Committee explained through counsel that its executive session discussions meandered to these 
two additional topics because executive sessions “are understandably informal meetings . . ..” 
The Committee also noted that no decisions were made regarding the additional topics discussed 
in the executive session.  
 
Executive sessions are the exception to the rule that all meetings of a public body must be 
open to the public. These exceptions, the ten enumerated executive session purposes, are 
narrowly construed. See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637, 641-42 (2008); OML 2014-
42; OML 2019-170. Executive sessions are not “informal” nor are they an opportunity for public 
bodies to discuss behind closed doors any topic they would rather not discuss in open session. 
Even if an executive session is lawfully convened, each topic to be discussed must be 
individually listed on the meeting notice as well as in the announcement in open session prior to 
entering executive session, and the Committee’s discussions must be restricted to those topics. 
See OML 2019-170; OML 2015-54; OML 2013-195. Additionally, the Open Meeting Law does 
not carve out an exception to the definition of “deliberation” for discussions that do not result in 
a decision or vote. “Deliberation” includes any communication among a quorum of a public 
body on matters within its jurisdiction, with limited exceptions not applicable here. See G.L. c. 
30A, 18; OML 2015-3; OML 2014-108; OML 2013-136; Boelter v. Board of Selectmen of 
Wayland, 479 Mass. 233, 243 (2018). 
 
To the extent that the Committee’s September 10 executive session discussions unrelated 
to the grievance matter did not fall within a permissible statutory purpose for executive session 
or were not included in the chair’s statement of the purpose for the executive session, the 
Committee may not continue to withhold from the public the portion of its September 10 
executive session meeting minutes that reflect these discussions. See G.L c. 30A, § 22(f) (“The 
minutes of any executive session . . . may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their 
entirety . . . as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but 
no longer; provided, however, that the executive session was held in compliance with section 
21.”); OML 2014-42; OML 2019-170. 
 
3. The Committee Timely Approved the Minutes of Its July 16 Meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes must be reviewed 
and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). “Timely manner” means “within the next 
===PAGE 6===
6 
  
three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can 
show good cause for further delay.” 940 CMR 29.11. Whenever possible, we recommend that 
minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2018-67; OML 2017-133. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee failed to timely approve the minutes of its July 
16 meeting when it approved these minutes at its September 10 meeting. We find that the 
Committee did not violate the Law when it approved the July 16 meeting minutes during its 
September 10 meeting, as that was the third meeting the Committee held following its July 16 
meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently detailed notice for its September 10 meeting. We find that the 
Committee did not violate the Law when it approved its July 16 meeting minutes on September 
10. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that 
similar violations in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law and may 
result in imposition of a penalty. 940 CMR 29.02. Finally, although not raised in the complaint, 
we note several concerns with the manner in which the Committee conducted its executive 
session, and we recommend that the Committee review our training video on executive sessions 
and our checklist for entering into executive session.
7 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Falmouth School Committee (via e-mail: sc hoolcommittee@falmouth.k12.ma.us) 
William Rider, Chair (via e-mail: wrider@falmouth.k12.ma.us) 
 Ronald Beaty (via e-mail: ) 
 
  
 
7 The video and checklist can be found at https://www mass.gov/service-details/open-meeting-law-educational-
materials.  

===PAGE 7===
7 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 