===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 25, 2013 
OML 2013-174 
Robert Ritchie, Esq. 
Special Town Counsel 
1175 Bay Road 
Amherst, MA 01002 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Ritchie: 
Our office received two complaints from Kimberly Reichelt, both dated September 24, 
2013, alleging that the Wayland Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaints allege that the Board failed to provide 
sufficient notice that it would discuss terminating the Town Administrator's employment 
contract during its August 26, 2013 meeting and that, at some point prior to that meeting, a 
quorum of the Board deliberated outside of a noticed meeting and agreed to terminate the Town 
Administrator's employment. The first complaint was filed with the Board on or about 
September 3, 2013, and the second was filed with the Board on or about September 18, 2013. 
The Board responded to both complaints by letter dated September 25, 2013. 
Following our review, we find no evidence that the Board improperly deliberated prior 
to its August 26, 2013 meeting, however we find that the notice for that meeting was not 
sufficiently specific to inform the public that a discussion about terminating the Town 
Administrator's employment would occur. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
September 3, 2013 and September 18, 2013 complaints filed with the Board; the Board's 
September 25, 2013 response; and the September 24, 2013 complaints filed with our office. We 
also reviewed the meeting notices, minutes, and video recordings of the Board's August 26, 
2013; September 9, 2013; September 16, 2013; September 23, 2013; October 2, 2013 and 
October 7, 2013 meetings. We reviewed the Board's October 24, 2013 response to our October 
8, 2013 request for certain documents and information, and the Board's response to a Wayland 
citizen's public records request, which included documents concerning Town Administrator 
Frederic Turkington's annual performance evaluations. We reviewed the August 7, 2013 Report 
of the Town Administrator, and emails sent by the complainant, by Mr. Turkington, and by 
members of the Board to our office. Finally, in September 2013 we interviewed each of the 
o 
===PAGE 2===
Board members and Mr. Turkington regarding the matters alleged in the complaint, and met 
again with Chair Leard prior to his resignation from the Board in October 2013.1 
FACTS 
The Board is a five-member public body, thus three members constitute a quorum. At 
the time the events in question occurred, its members were Chair Douglas Leard and Selectmen 
Anthony Boschetto, Edward Collins, Joseph Nolan and Steven Correia. 
In the Town Administrator's August 7, 2013 report, which was provided to the Board, 
Town Administrator Frederic Turkington noted that his annual performance review was to be 
completed by September 19, 2013. Mr. Turkington's report laid out a timetable with milestones 
for accomplishing the review. In an effort to meet those milestones, Chair Leard sent an email to 
Mr. Turkington on the morning of August 17, 2013 inquiring whether he had provided the Board 
members with copies of his current employment agreement, job description, and past 
evaluations. On the morning of August 19, 2013, Mr. Turkington emailed these documents to 
the Board. Chair Leard planned to discuss the Board's goals and priorities for the Town 
Administrator at the Board's August 26, 2013 meeting, under a topic listed in the notice as 
"Review and discuss proposed goals and priorities for October 2013 through September 2014" as 
part of "Selectmen's Reports and Concerns." 
As was his regular practice, the Town Administrator prepared the Board's agenda for its 
August 26, 2013 meeting and sent it to the Chair for review. On August 19, 2013, at 12:47 PM, 
Mr. Turkingtoh sent an email to Chair Leard with the subject "DRAFT agenda for Selectmen's 
meeting on August 26," and included in the text of the email a proposed agenda listing 14 items 
for discussion. At 1:25 PM that day, Chair Leard forwarded the email to Mr. Boschetto, who 
was the Vice Chair and had chaired the prior meeting in Mr. Leard's absence, writing, "Hi 
Tony.. .do you have anything to add?" Mr. Boschetto replied at 2:37 PM, writing, "Yes Please. 1 
will send you language tonight, thanks. T." At 3:11 PM, Mr. Boschetto sent an email to Chair 
Leard with the subject line: "do not forward or share.. .1 will call." In the email, Mr. Boschetto 
wrote: 
Please add item 4 below at 7:15 and adjust remaining items accordingly and remove item 
13 
7:15 4.) Review Town Administrator Contract and Job Description 
Remove item 13 and schedule for follow up meeting. 
T. 
'We also acknowledge the numerous phone calls, letters, and emails our office received from Wayland residents 
regarding the events discussed in this determination. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
In his October 24, 2013 response to our request for certain documents and information, 
regarding the added agenda item, Chair Leard wrote: 
I believe I received this request via telephone. I believe, at the time I asked Mr. Boschetto 
the purpose of the specific agenda item and I was simply informed that it was an item for 
possible discussion. 
Mr. Boschetto contends that the Chair never contacted him for additional information or 
clarification regarding this agenda item. 
Two days later, on August 21, 2013, Chair Leard sent an email to Mr. Turkington with 
the subject: "Agenda for Selectmen's meeting on August 26." In that email, Chair Leard wrote: 
Hi Fred. 
A member of the BOS would like to make the following changes to the August 26, 2013 
Board of Selectmen agenda: 
Add to the end of the 7:15 Agenda #4) "Review Town Administrator Contract and Job 
Description" 
Remove the 9:20 #13) Executive Session 
I hope to be in attendance on Monday but in the unlikely event I am not, I am forwarding 
this to Tony (Vice Chair) as well. I concurred with the requested agenda change. 
After receiving this email, Mr. Turkington telephoned Chair Leard to inquire about the 
nature of the new agenda item. Chair Leard informed Mr. Turkington that he received the 
request for the specific agenda item from a Board member with no explanation of its intent. 
The notice for the Board's August 26, 2013 meeting was posted on August 22, 2013. On 
August 24, 2013, Mr. Correia telephoned Chair Leard and left him a voice message inquiring 
about the nature of the added agenda item. Chair Leard responded by text message, writing, in 
relevant part: 
The specific agenda item was requested by Tony. I forwarded the agenda to tony because 
I was/am unsure of my attendance on Monday night. I never got into a lengthy discussion 
with him, I would suggest speaking with Tony. Thanks. 
Mr. Correia responded to the text message, writing in part: 
I disagree with your decision. You do the agenda whether you attend or not as chairman. 
Regardless, you still should know what the agenda item is regarding as chair. Can you 
please contact him and find out what this is all about? Thx. 
Chair Leard did not respond further. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
The Board held its regular meeting on August 26, 2013. At the beginning of the meeting, 
Mr. Correia asked the Chair for clarification regarding the agenda item "Review Town 
Administrator Contract and Job Description." Mr. Correia noted that he "asked three times since 
I got the agenda what the purpose of that line item is, and I'm not sure I'm prepared this evening. 
I didn't get a response, so I'm just wondering what's the purpose of that line item." Mr. Correia 
additionally noted that the Town Administrator's contract was not up for renewal. After some 
heated discussion between Mr. Correia and Chair Leard, the Chair deferred discussion of the 
topic to later in the meeting and moved on to Public Comment. 
When the Board reached "Review Town Administrator Contract and Job Description" on 
the agenda, the Chair immediately recognized Mr. Boschetto, who distributed a motion to the 
other Board members. The motion read, in relevant part: 
I move that the BOS terminate the employment contract of Fredric E. Turkington, Jr. as 
Town Administrator effective immediately, August 26, 2013 without cause under the 
terms of section VII(B) of said contract. He shall be immediately relieved of all duties 
and the Assistant Town Administrator shall serve as Interim Town Administrator on all 
matters until the Board of Selectmen appoint an interim or permanent replacement and 
that the BOS shall schedule a meeting with all Department Heads for purpose of creating 
an interim management structure. 
As Mr. Boschetto passed around the motion and began speaking in support of its 
adoption, Mr. Correia immediately objected, once again noting that he had requested 
clarification as to the purpose of the topic and that he was not prepared to discuss the contract 
that evening. Mr. Nolan also objected to what he viewed as a lack of transparency, questioning 
why Mr. Boschetto had not distributed the motion to the Board members ahead of the meeting. 
Mr. Boschetto replied that it was not appropriate under the Open Meeting Law, and that the 
appropriate procedure was to have an agenda and then make a motion during the meeting. 
Mr. Boschetto then explained that he believed it was time for the Town to move in a 
"new direction," and that approving this motion was in the best interest of the Town. Chair 
Leard noted that the Board could terminate the Town Administrator for "just cause" or "without 
cause." Mr. Correia argued that Mr. Turkington had stellar performance reviews, and protested 
what he viewed as a lack of transparency by the Board. After much heated discussion about the 
procedural appropriateness of considering the motion, Mr. Correia walked out of the meeting in 
protest. 
Mr. Boschetto explained that his motion was to terminate the Town Administrator 
"without cause." Mr. Collins agreed that if the Board was terminating Mr. Turkington "without 
cause," then the Board should not discuss causes for termination. Mr. Boschetto and Chair Leard 
4 
===PAGE 5===
agreed that there should be no discussion of the merits of terminating Mr. Turkington.2 The 
Board had no substantive discussion regarding the merits of the motion, except for Mr. Nolan's 
objections and questions to the other Board members. The Board then voted 3-1 to approve the 
motion. Mr. Boschetto, Mr. Collins, and Chair Leard voted in favor. Mr. Nolan voted against. 
The entire discussion lasted approximately 20 minutes. 
In interviews with our office and in signed written statements, each member of the Board 
subsequently stated that he did not have any conversation with any other member of the Board 
regarding the possibility of terminating the Town Administrator's employment contract prior to 
the August 26, 2013 Board meeting. 
Following the August 26, 2013 meeting, a number of citizens and public officials 
expressed concerns in the press and to our office about what had occurred. In an effort to 
address those concerns, and to respond to Ms. Reichelt's Open Meeting Law complaints, the 
Board took the following action. On September 9, 2013; September 16, 2013; and September 
23, 2013, the Board held meetings during which it allowed dozens of residents to address the 
Board and express their opinions regarding the Board's actions. The Board members also made 
statements during the September 23, 2013 meeting explaining their votes, though the Board 
voted 3-2 during the executive session portion of that meeting to deny that it violated the Law. 
However, the Board also suggested adopting a policy to "assure that major decisions of the 
Board are accompanied by sufficient notice and opportunity for public deliberation of town 
business."3 
In a further effort to address the complaints, the Board posted notice for an October 2, 
2013 meeting that included the following topic: 
Review Town Administrator Employment Agreement and Job Description, and/or 
Discuss all Possible Action as Allowable Under the Terms of the Agreement including 
Whether to Exercise the Authority of the Board to Confirm and Ratify Termination of the 
Employment Contract of the Town Administrator under the "Without Cause" Provisions 
of that Contract 
2 Section VII of Mr. Turkington's employment contract is entitled "Termination for Just Cause and Termination 
Without Cause and Severance Pay." The section provides, in relevant part, that: 
B. Without Cause 
The Board may terminate Turkington and this Agreement at any time without cause by giving Turkington 
written notice of such termination and paying Turkington twelve (12) month's salary and supplemental 
retirement benefits, except in the case of non-reappointment under Section IX(A) of this contract. 
We express no opinion as to the legal meaning or effect of termination "without cause." 
J This statement was made in the Board's response to the complaint, which was read aloud during this meeting. It is 
unclear whether such a policy has, in fact, been adopted in the time since this meeting. We encourage the Board to 
do so, if it has not already. 
5 
===PAGE 6===
During the October 2, 2013 meeting, following a discussion during which Mr. Correia 
made the points he would have made during the August 26, 2013 meeting had he been given an 
opportunity to prepare for that discussion, the Board voted to reaffirm its decision to terminate 
the Town Administrator's employment agreement "without cause," and did so by a 3-2 vote. 
Prior to the vote, Mr. Boschetto read aloud a statement explaining his decision to submit the 
topic regarding the Town Administrator's contract and job description for the Board's 
consideration at the August 26, 2013 meeting. Mr. Boschetto stated that during the weekend 
before the August 26, 2013 Board meeting, he reviewed the Town Administrator's employment 
agreement, job description, and most recent evaluation. It was during this review that he took 
note of several contract provisions, including "Performance Evaluation" and "Compensation." 
Mr. Boschetto stated that: 
Based on observation and review of Selectmen's meetings prior to my election, 
continuing concerns raised by residents, and discussions during posted Board meetings 
since April 2013,1 had become increasingly concerned with the Town Administrator's 
management style, philosophy, judgment and direction. As indicated by recent results at 
elections and Town Meetings, a majority of the electorate was looking for a new 
management approach.4 And, I came to believe that the only way to accomplish the 
desired result was with a change in top management. 
In gathering my own thoughts for the upcoming discussion and performance evaluation, I 
gained an understanding of the contractual provisions that the previous board had 
negotiated and would come into play in any such change... .Mindful of the proscriptions 
and requirements of the Open Meeting Law, I did not discuss my thoughts or any 
possible actions with any other member of the Board in advance of the August 26 Board 
meeting. I drafted two different motions - one not to reappoint the Town Administrator 
and the other to terminate the contract without cause. I did not share either of those 
motions with any other member of the Board of Selectmen until the board meeting on 
August 26, 2013.... At the start of the Board meeting, I had not determined whether I 
would even offer any motion concerning the Town Administrator's employment. 
On October 28, 2013, Chair Leard resigned from the Board, citing health concerns. 
DISCUSSION 
1. We find no Evidence that the Board Deliberated Outside of a Meeting to Agree to 
Terminate the Town Administrator's Employment. 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Soulhbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). To that end, the law requires that all meetings of a public 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
4 The complainant and the two dissenting members of the Board disagree with this assertion. 
6 
===PAGE 7===
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Open Meeting Law defines a "meeting" as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 
3OA, § 18. "Deliberation" is defined, in relevant part, as "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. A "quorum" is "a simple majority of the 
members of the public body, unless otherwise provided in a general or special law, executive 
order or other authorizing provision." Id. 
All five members of the Board stated verbally, during interviews with our office, and in 
signed written statements that they did not discuss the possibility of terminating the Town 
Administrator with any other Board member prior to the Board's August 26, 2013 meeting. Mr. 
Boschetto asserts that he independently decided to introduce a motion to terminate the Town 
Administrator's contract, and did not consult with any other members of the Board about this 
decision or the language of the motion prior to the meeting. While he believed that Mr. Collins 
and Chair Leard would share his perspective and support his motion, he claims that he did not 
speak with either regarding his planned action prior to the August 26, 2013 meeting. 
While it is unusual for such a significant decision to be made by a public body without 
any prior discussion. Selectmen Boschetto, Collins and Leard assert this is precisely what 
happened. We acknowledge that the Board members' accounts are contrary to the impression 
left by their seemingly orchestrated action however, in the absence of any evidence to the 
contrary, we credit their account and find they did not improperly deliberate outside of an open 
meeting. See, e.g. OML 2011-44 (finding that "While a vote to extend an employment contract 
does itself make a statement about the performance of the person whose contract is being 
extended, the fact of such a vote does not constitute concrete evidence that a discussion of that 
employee's performance preceded.")5 
2. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Post a Sufficiently Detailed 
Notice for its August 26. 2013 Meeting. 
Although we find that the Board did not deliberate prior to its August 26, 2013 meeting, 
the Board violated the Law by failing to give the public, and the Board's own members, 
sufficient notice that this anticipated discussion would occur. The Open Meeting Law requires 
that meeting notices contain "a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b). Public bodies must list topics in a meeting 
notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
Mr. Boschetto requested that Chair Leard add the topic "Review Town Administrator 
Contract and Job Description" to the notice for the Board's August 26, 2013 meeting. We 
believe that Mr. Boschetto knew at the time he requested this item be added that he would 
suggest either terminating or not renewing the contract of the Town Administrator during the 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at www.mass.gov/ago/opemneeting. 
7 
===PAGE 8===
meeting. However, we credit Chair Leard's account that he did not know specifically what Mr. 
Boschetto intended to discuss when he received the request to add this item. There is a conflict 
in the accounts of Mr. Boschetto and Chair Leard regarding whether the Chair subsequently 
spoke with Mr. Boschetto about the nature of the proposed topic. Mr. Boschetto acknowledged 
during the Board's October 2, 2013 executive session that he had a brief discussion with the 
Chair regarding adding the agenda item, and his August 19, 2013 email to Chair Leard 
requesting that the item be added to the agenda had the subject line: "do not forward or share.. .1 
will call." We therefore credit the Chair's assertion that he did speak with Mr. Boschetto about 
this item, and that Mr. Boschetto responded simply that "it was an item for possible discussion." 
Although Chair Leard made some effort to inquire about the nature of the topic at the 
time it was proposed, we nevertheless find that he fell short of his obligation to post a meeting 
notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting." See 940 CMR 29.03(1 )(b). Subsequent to the discussion with Mr. Boschetto, both 
the Town Administrator and a member of the Board contacted the Chair because they did not 
understand from the topic as written what would be discussed. At that point, it should have been 
clear to the Chair that the public also would not understand the nature of the discussion. The 
Chair had several options at that point. He could have 1) sought additional detail from Mr. 
Boschetto and updated the notice; 2) removed the unclear item from the agenda; or 3) if the 
Chair believed that the topic was sufficiently specific because it merely suggested a broad review 
of the Town Administrator's employment agreement and job description, then he should have 
limited discussion during the August 26, 2013 meeting to that topic. His failure to do any of 
these things resulted in a violation of the Open Meeting Law. We do not find that this violation 
was intentional, however, and we acknowledge that Mr. Boschetto appears to have been 
intentionally vague about the nature of this topic.6 
As a final matter, we address Mr. Boschetto's contention during the Board's August 26, 
2013 meeting that he was not permitted to provide more detail in his notice topic or distribute his 
motion to other Board members prior to the start of that meeting because doing so would violate 
the Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting Law is designed to ensure government transparency, 
but includes provisions meant to enable public bodies to operate efficiently and effectively. In 
particular, the law permits public body members to prepare for meetings by distributing meeting 
agendas, reports or other documents to be discussed at a meeting, "provided that no opinion of a 
member is expressed." G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (definition of "deliberation"). Thus, while a member 
of a public body should not discuss matters within the public body's jurisdiction with a quorum 
outside of a noticed meeting, it is entirely appropriate to distribute documents, such as 
anticipated motions, to the public body members for review prior to a planned discussion at an 
upcoming meeting. The law prohibits any expression of opinion on such documents however, 
meaning that arguments supporting or opposing the motion should not accompany the document 
being distributed. 
6 Furthermore, we acknowledge that before the meeting another member of the Board inquired of the Chair about 
the vague nature of this topic and that members of the Board raised similar concerns during the August 26, 2013 
meeting. Indeed, one member ultimately refused to participate in the discussion and left the meeting. 
8 
===PAGE 9===
CONCLUSION 
Although we find no evidence that the Board improperly deliberated prior to its August 
26, 2013 meeting, we find that the notice for that meeting was not sufficiently specific to inform 
the public that a discussion about terminating the Town Administrator's employment would 
occur. We acknowledge that the Board made efforts, in response to the significant public 
response to its decision, to offer the public an opportunity to comment on this issue and to 
address the allegations made by Ms. Reichelt. We also note that, following the events discussed 
in this decision, the Chair resigned from the Board. 
Accordingly, we order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, and caution the Board that a similar future violation may be considered evidence 
of an intentional violation of the Law. Additionally, we order the Board to review the Attorney 
General's Open Meeting Law Training Video #2: Meeting Notices and certify to our office 
within thirty (30) days of this decision, using the attached form, that it has done so.7 
With the issuance of this determination, we now consider this matter closed. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. If you have any questions regarding this letter, please contact our office at (617) 963-
2540. 
Sincerely, 
Amy L. Nable, Director 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorneys General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Wayland Board of Selectmen 
Mark Lanza, Wayland Town Counsel 
Kimberly Reichelt 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
http: 
9 
===PAGE 10===
Certification of Compliance with Order 
I hereby certify that I have read the Attorney General's determination 
(print name) 
number OML 2013-174 and, pursuant to the order therein, reviewed the Attorney General's 
Open Meeting Law Training Video #2: Meeting Notices on 
(date) 
Board Member Signature Date 
10 