===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
January 23, 2020 
OML 2020 - 7
Adam Costa, Esq.
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
30 Green Street 
Newburyport, MA 01950
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Costa:
This office received a complaint from Joanna Bilotta on July 26,1 alleging that the 
Lunenburg Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on June 19, and you 
responded on behalf of the Commission by letter dated July 19, following an extension of time 
granted by our office. The complaint alleges that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by denying the public access to its May 29 meeting, and by deliberating outside of a 
meeting prior to its May 29 meeting.
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
denying the public access to its May 29 meeting. We find this violation to be intentional. We do 
not find that the Commission deliberated outside of a meeting prior to its May 29 meeting. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Commission’s response; the 
request for further review; a recording of the May 29 meeting; the Commission’s meeting 
minutes for April 17, May 29,2 July 17, and several other dates; and the meeting notices for May 
29 and July 17. We also communicated with Complainant via phone and email and with 
Counsel3 via email.
1 All dates are in 2019.
2 Though not raised in the complaint, we note that the May 29 meeting minutes are insufficiently detailed in that 
they do not include a sufficiently detailed summary of the discussions held. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Minutes 
should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read 
the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106. Although a transcript of the 
meeting is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark made or opinion presented, minutes 
must include a summary of the discussion on each topic. See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. We recommend that the 
Commission revise its May 29 meeting minutes to come into compliance with the Open Meeting Law.
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person going forward.

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts to be as follows. The Commission posted notice for a meeting to be 
held on May 29 at 7:00 p.m. The notice included two anticipated topics for discussion: “LSIC - 
extension of Order of Conditions” and “Regulation review.” The topic “LSIC - extension of 
Order of Conditions” concerned an Order of Conditions relating to Lake Shirley. The Order of 
Conditions had previously been amended at the Commission’s April 17 meeting. Around this 
time, the Lake Shirley Improvement Corporation (LSIC) had requested that the Commission 
extend the Order of Conditions; however, there was disagreement about whether the 
Commission had authority to amend the Order of Conditions as it had done at its April 17 
meeting.
The Commission’s May 29 meeting commenced at 7:00 p.m. and the extension of the 
Order of Conditions was the first topic addressed. The Commission voted to approve the 
extension without extensive deliberation on the topic. After the Commission voted, counsel for 
the LSIC asked to be recognized. Thereafter, counsel for the LSIC informed the Commission that 
the LSIC did not believe the Commission had the authority to amend the Order of Conditions as 
it had done on April 17. At approximately 7:11, after members of the public reacted to a 
statement made by a member of the Commission, the Chair of the Commission stated that if 
people continued to speak out of turn, he would close the meeting. Discussion regarding the 
extension continued. At approximately 7:20, the Chair called on a member of the public who had 
asked to be recognized. The member of the public asked the Commission for its reasoning for 
amending the Order of Conditions. The Chair stated that he would not answer that question.
From there, the meeting devolved. Members of the public raised their voices and spoke over 
each other. Members of the Commission shouted over members of the public. Members of the 
Commission and of the public called each other names, made accusations, and used profanity. At 
approximately 7:21, the Chair stated that he had closed the meeting and that the public would 
have to clear the room. At approximately 7:22, the Chair called the local police requesting 
assistance in clearing the public from the meeting location.
After the call to the police was placed, the meeting came back into some order, and 
members of the public continued to discuss their concerns about the Order of Conditions with the 
Commission. At approximately 7:26, the Chair again asked everyone to leave and informed the 
public that the police had been called. The Chair stated that the Commission had other topics on 
its agenda that it needed to address. Sergeant Connery of the Lunenburg Police Department 
arrived, confirmed that the meeting was over, and ushered the public out of the meeting room. 
After clearing the room, at approximately 7:35, Sergeant Connery offered to stay in the parking 
lot until the Commission had completed its business and inquired when the Commission would 
be done for the evening. The Commission stated it would be finished at approximately 9:00 p.m.
After Sergeant Connery left the meeting room, the Commission locked the doors to the 
room. Thereafter, the Commission continued to deliberate. The Commission discussed the 
raucous meeting and the Order of Conditions for a few minutes and then turned to its second 
topic for the evening — “Regulation review.” The Commission continued to deliberate for 
approximately an hour and a half after ejecting all members of the public and locking the doors 
to the meeting room.
2

===PAGE 3===
In an effort to take remedial steps in response to the present complaint, the Commission 
posted notice for a July 17 meeting that included the following topics:
2. Further discussion of LSIC’s request for, and action on, an extended Order of 
Conditions; including discussion about a meeting between the Chairman, LSIC 
President and their respective attorneys; and potentially including a re-vote on the 
aforesaid extension, if deemed necessary or appropriate. The foregoing is remedial 
action meant to address the aforementioned June 19,2019 and June 27,2019 OML 
complaints.
3. Continued review of regulations. The foregoing is remedial action meant to 
address the aforementioned June 19, 2019 and June 27, 2019 OML complaints.
At the July 17 meeting, the Commission engaged in a somewhat substantive discussion regarding 
the Order of Conditions, the changes made to it, and the vote to extend it. Thereafter, “[t]he 
[C]ommission conducted a summary of the regulations review.”
DISCUSSION
L. The Commission Violated the Open Meeting Law by Denying the Public Access to Its
May 29 Meeting.
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Except when meeting in executive session, all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public. G.L. c. 30A, §20(a). In order to be open to the 
public, a meeting must be accessible to the public. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); OML 2014-3.4 
Access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and 
hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2017-135; OML 
2016-54.
The relevant facts in this case are not in dispute. The meeting became heated, the Chair 
stated several times that the meeting was “closed,” the public was ordered to vacate the meeting 
room, the police were called, the doors were locked, and the Commission continued its 
deliberations behind closed doors. This was a clear and substantial violation that strikes at the 
heart of the Open Meeting Law. The Commission does not dispute that it violated the Open 
Meeting Law by excluding the public from its meeting.
We next consider whether the Commission’s violation of the Open Meeting Law was 
intentional. We find that it was. An intentional violation is
an act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of
M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25. Evidence of an intentional violation ... shall
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
include, but not be limited to, that the public body or public body member: (a) acted 
with specific intent to violate the law; (b) acted with deliberate ignorance of the 
law's requirements; or (c) was previously informed by receipt of a decision from a 
court of competent jurisdiction or advised by the Attorney General, pursuant to 940 
CMR 29.07 or 940 CMR 29.08, that the conduct violates [the Law]. Where a public 
body or public body member has made a good faith attempt at compliance with the 
law, but was reasonably mistaken about its requirements, such conduct will not be 
considered an intentional violation.
940 CMR 29.02.
To instruct the entirety of the public in attendance to vacate a meeting location, lock the 
doors, and continue to deliberate is, if not an action taken with specific intent to violate the Open 
Meeting Law, then at the very least an action taken with deliberate ignorance of the law’s 
requirements. There is no more basic requirement of the Open Meeting Law than that meetings 
be open to the public. Although a public body may order a person who continues to disrupt a 
meeting to withdraw from the meeting, and may authorize police to remove the disruptive person 
from the meeting, see G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g), here the Commission excluded every single member 
of the public from its meeting, locked the doors, and then proceeded with the meeting. Therefore, 
we find that the Commission intentionally violated the Open Meeting Law by denying the public 
access to the majority of its May 29 meeting.
Finally, we consider whether the Commission cured the above violation at its July 17 
meeting. The Commission argues that the July 17 discussion regarding the extension of the 
Order of Conditions and its “summary of the regulations review” cured the Commission’s 
violation. These actions were not sufficient to address the violation committed. See Pearson v. 
Board of Selectmen of Longmeadow, 49 Mass. App. Ct. 119, 125 (2000) (citing Tolar v. School 
Board of Liberty County, 398 So.2d 427, 429 (Fla. 1981)) (noting violations may be cured by 
independent, deliberative action, that is “not merely a ceremonial acceptance ... and ... a 
perfunctory ratification of secret decisions”); OML 2014-72. After review of the minutes of the 
July 17 meeting, we find that the Commission summarized its more than hour-long review of the 
regulations that it had conducted on May 29, but did not actually engage in the regulations 
review anew for the public to witness. Therefore, the action the Commission took on July 17 was 
insufficient to fully cure the violation that occurred on May 29. See OML 2016-49; OML 2013- 
195.
2. We Do Not Find That the Commission Deliberated Outside of a Posted Meeting
Regarding the Extension of the Order of Conditions Prior to the May 29 Meeting.
The Complainant alleges that “[t]he total lack of debate or discussion before the Motion 
[to extend the Order of Conditions] and vote is highly suggestive that deliberations took place 
prior to the [May 29] meeting.” The Commission denies that it deliberated outside of a posted 
meeting prior to the May 29 meeting regarding the Order of Conditions or its extension. The 
Commission explains that it voted to extend the Order of Conditions at the May 29 meeting 
“without any extensive deliberation or any public participation, because the Order and its 
amendments have been discussed by the Commission at length in previous meeting(s).”
4

===PAGE 5===
After review of the audio recording of the May 29 meeting, various meeting minutes at 
which the Order of Conditions was discussed, and discussions with the Complainant, we do not 
find evidence that the Commission deliberated outside of the May 29 meeting regarding the 
Order of Conditions or its extension. Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit the 
Commission’s account of the facts. See OML 2014-122; OML 2013-133; OML 2015-8. 
Moreover, we have stated in prior determinations that agreement among public body members is 
insufficient to support the inference that those members deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. 
See OML 2017-168; OML 2019-113. Accordingly, we do not find that the Commission violated 
the Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a noticed meeting prior to the May 29 meeting 
regarding the Order of Conditions.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by denying the public access to its May 29 meeting. We find this violation to be intentional. 
We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar 
violations in the future may result in the imposition of a civil penalty. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c)(4); 
940 CMR 29.07(3)(d). In addition, we order each member of the Commission to attend a 
comprehensive Open Meeting Law training, either by participating in one of the Division of 
Open Government’s monthly webinar trainings or by attending a training presented by the 
Commission’s legal counsel. Each member of the Commission shall certify to our office that 
they have done so within sixty (60) days of receipt of this letter.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions.
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Lunenburg Conservation Commission 
Joanna Bilotta
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
5
