===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 25, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 89 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Lisa Mead, Esq. 
City Solicitor, City of Haverhill 
lisa@mtclawyers.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Mead: 
 
This office received a complaint from Thomas Duggan of Valley Patriot Newspaper on 
September 26, 2023, alleging that the Haverhill City School Council (the “Council”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Council 
on or around June 17, 2023, and former City Solicitor William Cox responded on behalf of the 
Council by letter dated July 31, 2023.  The complaint alleges that the Council deliberated outside 
of a posted meeting when all nine members of the Council circulated and signed a letter 
concerning allegations against a member of the school committee who was then a candidate for 
mayor. 
 
Following our review, we find, as the Council concedes, that the Council violated the 
Open Meeting Law.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Council’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office for further review.  
We also reviewed the statement from the Council that is the subject of the complaint. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law states, in relevant part, that “[e]xcept in an 
emergency, . . . a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Except when 
convened in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”  G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(a).  
  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any m
atter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Law defines “deliberation” 
broadly as any “oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, 
between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  
A “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  A one-way 
communication from one public body member to a quorum on matters within the body’s 
jurisdiction constitutes deliberation for purposes of the Open Meeting Law, even if no other 
public body member responds. See OML 2016-104; OML 2015-33; OML 2012-73.
1  The Open 
Meeting Law does not carve out an exception to the definition of “deliberation” for discussions 
that do not result in a decision or vote.  See OML 2020-93.  A public body may not engage in 
serial communication whereby a quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner 
outside of a meeting on a subject within the public body’s jurisdiction.  See OML 2015-3; OML 
2012-84; OML 2011-27; McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that private 
serial communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to 
circumvent the intent of the law).  
 
In r
esponse to the complaint, the Council explained that allegations emerged through a 
news story that School Committee member and mayoral candidate Scott Wood had previously 
made racist remarks.  Council President Timothy Jordan and other Council members had 
received emails and other inquiries asking what the Council planned to do about the allegations.  
Councilors felt that remaining silent was not an option, so Council President Jordan discussed 
the matter with Councilor Melissa Lewandowski and asked if Councilor Lewandowski would be 
willing to draft a response stating that the Council does not condone hate speech or actions.  
Councilor Lewandowski drafted a letter, which was circulated to all Councilors, and all nine 
Councilors signed on to the letter.   
 
As a preliminary matter, for purposes of this review and in the absence of any dispute by 
the C
ouncil, we assume without deciding that the Council’s statement was a communication on a 
matter within the Council’s jurisdiction.  See, e.g., OML 2021-35; OML 2021-12.  After this 
complaint was filed, the Council acknowledged that the circulation of and signing onto the 
statement outside of a posted meeting violated the Open Meeting Law.  The Council, through its 
attorney, represented that it was unaware that such communications violated the Open Meeting 
Law until it was advised so by the City Solicitor, and the Council committed to attend training on 
the Open Meeting Law.  In addition, as further remedial action, the Council discussed the 
drafting and circulation of the statement during an open meeting.  We commend the Council for 
its actions in response to the complaint, and acknowledge the role of the complainant in bringing 
the issue to the Council’s attention. 
 
 For
 the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a posted meeting.  We order the Council’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Council that a determination by our 
office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
Open Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Council.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have 
any questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Thomas Duggan (via email: ) 
 Haverhill City Council via President Thomas J. Sullivan  
(via email: tsullivan@cityofhaverhill.com) 
 Haverhill City Clerk (via email: kwright@haverhillma.gov) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
