===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
January 27, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 8 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Jacob Hampton 
Conservation Agent 
Town of Windsor 
Conservation@windsormass.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Conservation Agent Hampton: 
 
This letter addresses three complaints filed by Caleb Mitchell alleging that the Windsor 
Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.  The first complaint was originally filed with the Commission on July 12, 2022, and you 
responded on behalf of the Commission on July 25, 2022.
 1  The first complaint alleges that the 
Committee failed to post notice at least 48 hours in advance of its June 8 meeting.2  The second 
complaint was originally filed with the Commission on July 20, and you responded on behalf of 
the Commission on August 22.  The second complaint alleges that during the Commission’s July 
13 meeting, the Commission approved minutes of the June 8 meeting despite not specifying on 
the notice for the July 13 meeting which meeting minutes would be approved nor identifying 
during the meeting which minutes were approved.  The third complaint was originally filed with 
the Commission on August 8, and you responded on behalf of the Commission on August 28.  
The third complaint alleges that during its July 20 meeting the Commission failed to discuss its 
response to the first Open Meeting Law complaint.  Both the second and third complaints allege 
that the Commission deliberated outside of a posted meeting at some point between the July 13 
and July 20 meetings to prepare a response to the first Open Meeting Law complaint. 
 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
2 The first complaint also alleges that the Board rescheduled a hearing on a Notice of Intent regarding 935 Cheshire 
Road from the June 8 meeting to a date in July but did not provide new notification to abutters of the changed date.  
The Division of Open Government’s jurisdiction concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  We decline to 
review this allegation because this allegation, even if true, would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting 
Law.  See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners).  The Open Meeting 
Law does not require that a public body provide individual notice of a meeting to abutters.  See OML 2021-7.  
Furthermore, we decline to review, and offer no opinion on, whether there was a violation of any separate law 
governing the particular type of public hearing at issue.  See OML Declination 12-22-15 (Avon Zoning Board of 
Appeals). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by meeting 
on June 8 without posting notice 48 hours in advance and by posting an insufficiently specific 
meeting notice for its July 13 meeting.  We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the other ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaints, the Board’s responses to the complaints, and the complainant’s requests for further 
review.  In addition, we reviewed the notices and minutes for the Board’s June 8, July 13, and 
July 2 meetings.  Finally, we corresponded with the complainant by email and we spoke with 
Conservation Agent Jacob Hampton
3 and Select Board member Chris Cozzaglio by phone. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Commission Violated the Open Meeting Law When it Held a Meeting on June 8 
Without Posting Notice 48 Hours in Advance. 
 
The first complaint alleges that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
held a
 meeting on June 8 without posting notice of the meeting 48 hours in advance.  The Open 
Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the deliberations and 
decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of Southbridge, 376 
Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Law states, in relevant part, that “[e]xcept in an emergency, in 
addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every 
meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays. In an emergency, a public body shall post notice as soon as reasonably possible prior to 
such meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).    The Open Meeting Law defines an emergency as “a 
sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding immediate action.”  
G.L. c. 30A, § 18; 940 CMR 29.02.  The burden of justifying the need for an emergency meeting 
falls to the public body.  See OML 2020-123.
4  Emergency meetings are reserved for 
circumstances that are unanticipated and require an immediate response. See OML 2021-119; 
OML 2017-131; OML 2016-70; OML 2011-45. 
 
The 
Commission does not dispute that it held a meeting on June 8 despite posting notice 
less than 48 hours in advance of the meeting.  Nor does the Commission suggest that the June 8 
meeting satisfied the Open Meeting Law’s definition of “emergency,” such that it would have 
been justified in posting notice less than 48 hours in advance.  Instead, the commission explains, 
the Town Clerk forgot to post the meeting notice and was working remotely where she did not 
have access to the software needed to post the Commission’s meeting notice.  The Complainant 
asserts, and the Commission does not dispute, that the Complainant contacted the Town Clerk to 
inquire about the June 8 meeting when notice was not posted 48 hours in advance of the meeting 
and was told the meeting would not take place due to the failure to post timely notice.  
Ultimately, the Town Clerk posted notice for the June 8 meeting on June 7; the notice included 
several topics for discussion but did not include the topic with which the Complainant had been 
concerned.  The Commission acknowledges that it proceeded with its June 8 meeting despite 
knowing the notice had not been timely posted because the remaining topics were time-sensitive 
 
3 For clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
4 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-m eeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
and the Commission believed were not of great public interest.  Therefore, we find—and the 
Commission concedes—that it violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Next, we must determine whether the violation was  intentional, as the Complainant 
urges.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body 
or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 29.02.  An 
intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the 
Law’s requirements or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law.  Id.  We also have found an intentional violation of the Open Meeting Law when a 
member of the public informed the public body that action it was about to take would violate the 
Open Meeting Law and the public body proceeded anyway.  See, e.g., OML 2016-69.  Here, the 
Complainant notified the Town Clerk that notice had not been posted 48 hours in advance of the 
Commission’s June 8 meeting as required by the Open Meeting Law and he was informed the 
meeting would not take place.  The Complainant did not follow up with the Commission itself, 
as the Complainant understood from the Town Clerk that the meeting would not take place.  The 
Commission was aware when it met on June 8 that its notice had not been posted 48 hours in 
advance but states it was advised by the Town Clerk, who at that point was transitioning to 
becoming Town Administrator, that it should proceed with its meeting anyway.  Although we 
express great concern with the actions of the Town Clerk—informing the Complainant that the 
Commission’s June 8 meeting had been canceled, posting notice anyway less than 48 hours in 
advance of the meeting, and then advising the Commission to proceed with its meeting—we 
decline to impute the Town Clerk’s conduct to the Commission.  The Commission indisputably 
violated the Open Meeting Law, but we decline to find that the Commission’s violation was 
intentional. 
 
II. The Commission Posted an I
 nsufficiently Specific Notice for its July 13 Meeting. 
 
The second complaint alleges that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently specific notice for its July 13 meeting, where the meeting notice did not 
specify which meeting minutes the Commission would review for approval.  The notice for the 
Commission’s July 13 meeting included the topic “Review and approval of Conservation 
Committee
5 Meeting Minutes” but did not identify the meeting minutes to be reviewed. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a meeting notice in
 clude “the date, time and place 
of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Public bodies are required to list topics on a notice with 
“sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(1)(b).  When the Chair reasonably anticipates that a particular set of 
meeting minutes will be reviewed at a meeting, the notice should identify the specific meeting 
minutes to be discussed.  See OML 2021-57; OML 2019-21.  The Commission does not dispute 
that the notice for the July 13 meeting failed to specify that the minutes for the June 8 meeting 
would be reviewed for approval, nor that the Chair reasonably anticipated that the minutes of that 
particular would be considered.  Therefore, we find that the notice for the Commission’s July 13 
meeting was insufficiently specific.   
 
5 We understand that the reference to the Conservation Committee was an administrative error and int ended to refer 
to the Commission. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
We do not, however, find that this violation was intentional.  The Complainant asserts 
that the Commission intentionally concealed the fact that the June 8 meeting minutes would be 
approved because he had filed a complaint about that meeting.  We acknowledge that notices for 
the Commission’s meetings before and after July 13 generally identified the specific meeting 
minutes to be reviewed.  However, events that the Complainant describes as occurring during the 
Commission’s July 13 meeting to support a claim of an intentional violation—a Commission 
member signing the minutes without a vote to approve them and failing to verbally identify the 
minutes being signed—are inaccurate.  To the contrary, on July 13, the Commission voted in 
open session to approve the June 8 meeting minutes.  The Commission has a practice of 
Commission members signing the minutes after approval, and one Commission member failed to 
do so.  At the Commission’s next meeting on July 20, the Conservation Agent brought the June 8 
meeting minutes to that Commission member to sign.  There was no discussion or vote on July 
20 because the minutes being signed had already been approved by vote in open session at the 
prior meeting.  On these facts, we do not find that the Commission intentionally concealed the 
fact that it would approve the June 8 meeting minutes during its meeting on July 13. 
 
III. The Commission Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by the Manner in Which it 
Responded to the First Open Meeting Law Complaint. 
 
The third complaint alleges that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law during 
its July 20 meeting by failing to adequately discuss its response to the Complainant’s prior Open 
Meeting Law complaint.  The second and third complaints allege that the Commission 
deliberated outside of a posted meeting to prepare a response to the prior complaint.   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, unless an extension has been granted by the 
Att
orney General, within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, a 
public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; 
and send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken.  940 
CMR 29.05(5).  The public body must also send the Attorney General a copy of the complaint 
and a description of any remedial action taken.  Id.  The public body may review a complaint 
during a meeting and refer the complaint to a designee to  respond, or an individual may receive 
and draft a response to the complaint in advance of a meeting for the public body to approve 
during a meeting, but the public body may not remove itself entirely from the process.  See OML 
2020-164; OML 2017-197; OML 2017-148 (“That the Board may have chosen to refer the 
complaint rather than discuss its substance is the Board’s prerogative.”).  The Open Meeting Law 
does not require a public body to engage in a substantive discussion of the merits of the 
complaint. See OML 2020-38; OML 2018-134. 
 
The Commission has explained that the Conservation Agent received the first Open 
Meeting Law complaint regarding the failure to post timely notice of the June 8 meeting and sent 
it to the Town Clerk as well as to two out of the six Commission members.  The Town Clerk 
provided a proposed response because she was the person responsible for the notice posting.  The 
Conservation Agent then revised and expanded the response.  During the July 20 meeting, the 
response prepared by the Town Clerk and the Conservation Agent was distributed to the 
Commission as well as to the Complainant, who was present at the meeting.  The Commission 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
approved the response.  This practice—where staff members received the complaint and 
prepared a draft response for the Commission’s consideration and approval during a meeting—
satisfied the Commission’s obligations.   
 
Finally, we find no evidence that the Commission deliberated outside of the July 20 
mee
ting regarding its response to the complaint.  The Open Meeting Law requires that 
deliberation—defined as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction”—take place only during a meeting for which proper notice has been posted.  See 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(a)-(b), 21.  The Commission explained that the Town Clerk and the 
Conservation Agent prepared the draft response to the Open Meeting Law complaint and denies 
that there was any discussion among a quorum of Commission members regarding the draft 
response prior to the July 20 meeting.  Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a 
public body’s account of the facts.  See OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141; see also LaPointe v. 
License Board of Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) (“There is every presumption in favor of the 
honesty and sufficiency of the motives actuating public officers in actions ostensibly taken for 
the general welfare.”).  Therefore, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by the manner in which it responded to the prior Open Meeting Law complaint.      
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by meeting on June 8 without timely posting notice and by posting an insufficiently specific 
notice for its July 13 meeting.  We order the Commission’s immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Commission that a determination by our office of a 
similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  In addition, we order all members of the Board to attend an Open Meeting Law training 
webinar provided by our office within ninety (90) days of the Board's receipt of this letter.
6 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Caleb Mitchell (via e-mail: ) 
 Madeline Scully, Town Administrator (via e- mail: mscully@windsormass.com) 
 Windsor Town Clerk (via e- mail: windsortownclerk@gmail.com) 
 
6 Information on upcoming webinars is available on the Attorney General's website, https://wwwmass.gov/service - 
details/open-meeting-law-trainings. 

===PAGE 6===
6 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 