===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
January 19, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 1 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Chair Steve Bannon  
Great Barrington Select Board  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Bannon: 
This office received a complaint from Eileen Mooney on August 26, 2021, alleging that 
the Great Barrington Selectboard (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. Although the complaint is dated June 10, the Town states that it only became aware of the 
complaint on September 1 when it received a copy from our office. The Board responded by 
letter dated September 28.1 In her complaint, Ms. Mooney alleges that the Board must release to 
the public minutes of a November 18, 2020, executive session, as the original purpose for the 
executive session has concluded.2 We agree.  
 There are ten purposes for which a public body may enter executive, or closed, session. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One permissible reason to convene in executive session is “[t]o discuss the 
reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, 
of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought 
against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual” (“Purpose 1”). G.L. c. 30A, § 21 
(a)(1); see also OML 2020-76.3 Under Purpose 1, the individual to be discussed has certain 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 The Board argues in its response that the complaint is untimely because it was filed more than 30 days after Ms. 
Mooney was last denied copies of the disputed executive session minutes. We find this argument unavailing. A 
public body’s obligation to review executive session minutes for possible release is ongoing. If a public body 
reviews executive session minutes and determines that the purpose for the executive session remains such that the 
minutes should continue to be withheld from the public, it must continue to review those same executive session 
minutes at reasonable intervals until it determines that the reason for secrecy has expired. See OML 2019-133. 
Therefore, we find this complaint was timely as the Board had not released the executive session minutes to the 
public at the time the complaint was filed.  
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
rights, including the right to individual notice, to be present at the executive session, to speak on 
his or her behalf, to have counsel present, and to record the executive session. Id. When a public 
body convenes an executive session under Purpose 1, the purpose for the session generally 
concludes when the public body resolves the matter with the person who is the subject of the 
executive session. See OML 2020-120; OML 2017-143. 
 Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(f). When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any 
documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege 
or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, from 
disclosure. See id. The burden of justifying continued nondisclosure of executive session minutes 
lies with the public body. Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham Regional School Committee, 402 Mass. 
179, 184 (1988); OML 2014-138. 
 Our jurisdiction in the course of the Open Meeting Law complaint process is to review 
for compliance with the Open Meeting Law. Therefore, we review whether a public body may 
lawfully withhold executive session meeting minutes based on a claim that the lawful purpose 
for the executive session is ongoing. If the public body acknowledges, or we find, that the 
purpose for the executive session has expired, the public body still may cite to a Public Records 
Law exemption or the attorney-client privilege as a reason for continuing to withhold executive 
session minutes or portions of those minutes. Any dispute regarding a public body’s claim that 
minutes are exempt from disclosure pursuant to an exemption in the Public Records Law should 
be directed to the Supervisor of Records in the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s Public Records 
Division. See OML 2020-120.  
 Here, we have reviewed, in camera, the minutes of the Board’s November 18, 2020, 
executive session. During the executive session, the Board discussed complaints against the 
Chair of the Great Barrington Housing Authority. After a discussion of an hour and forty-five 
minutes, the Board voted to issue a letter of expectations within 90 days that would provide 
guidance to the Housing Authority’s Chair on new policies and procedures to address the 
complaints. The Board also authorized a team building workshop for members of the Housing 
Authority Board, staff, and a community liaison. The Great Barrington Town Manager informs 
us that the Board issued a letter of expectations to the Housing Authority’s Chair in December of 
2020.  
 Although the Housing Authority’s Chair is still implementing some of the new policies 
which the Board laid out in the letter of expectations, and will continue to do so, we find that the 
purpose for the November 18, 2020, executive session – to discuss complaints against the 
Housing Authority’s Chair – has concluded because the Board will not be taking any further 
action in response to the complaints against the Housing Authority’s chair. See OML 2021-188;  
OML 2021-143 (finding that the purpose for an executive session had concluded when the public 
body issued a statement explaining that it had taken all the action it was authorized to take in 
response to a complaint). As the purpose for the executive session that took place on November 
18, 2020, has concluded, the minutes of the executive session can no longer be withheld from the 
public under the Open Meeting Law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 We order the Board, within 30 days of receipt of this letter, to release the minutes of the 
November 18, 2020, executive session and any documents or exhibits used during the executive 
session, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law permits 
the Board to withhold the minutes, either in whole or in part. 
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Eileen Mooney (via e-mail: ) 
 Great Barrington Town Manager Mark Pruhenski (via e-mail: 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
