===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 28, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 94 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Peter Oleskiewicz 
Chair, North Adams City Council General Government Committee 
POleskiewicz@northadams-ma.gov 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Oleskiewicz: 
 
This office received a complaint from Jennifer Barbeau on May 19,
1 alleging that the 
North Adams City Council General Government Committee (the “Committee”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on March 1, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated April 10. 
The complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it did not 
properly post notice of a meeting it held on February 18, 2025.   
 
We resolve this complaint by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the request for further review, the Committee’s response, 
the meeting notice, and the request for further review. We find that the Committee violated the 
Open Meeting Law in the way alleged.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours prior to the meeting, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). The notice must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting.” A public body may amend a meeting notice less than 48 hours prior to 
the meeting but may not add additional discussion topics if those topics were reasonably 
anticipated more than 48 hours prior to the meeting.  See OML 2024-6; OML 2020-29; OML 
2011-11.   
 
The Committee posted notice on February 4 for a meeting to be held on Tuesday, 
February 18. The Committee then posted an amended notice on Friday, February 14, adding 
three new topics related to Council Rules. The Committee does not suggest that the additional 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
topics were unanticipated. At the February 18 meeting, the Committee discussed the three added 
topics (“Council Papers 12,466; 12,467; and 12,468”) and referred the topics back to the Council 
for a formal vote. As Monday, February 17, was President’s Day, a legal holiday, the amended 
notice with the additional topics was not posted 48 hours prior to the meeting, not including 
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.   
 
In response to the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee acknowledged that the 
amended meeting notice adding the additional topics was not posted 48 hours prior to the 
meeting, not including weekends and holidays, and did not suggest that the topics added to the 
amended notice were not reasonably anticipated.  Therefore, we find that the Committee violated 
the Open Meeting Law.  The Committee has committed to being “more mindful of not excluding 
holidays from the 48-hour notice period in the future.”  
 
For the reasons set forth above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law.  We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, 
and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Matthew Lindberg  
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
Assisted by Dariana Noyola, Legal Intern  
 
cc: Tina Leonesio, City Clerk (via email: tleonesio@northadams-ma.gov)  
 Jennifer Barbeau, (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
Thi
s determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
