===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 19, 2017 
OML 2017-192 
Douglas W. Heim, Esq. 
Arlington Town Counsel 
50 Pleasant Street 
Arlington, MA 02476 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Heim: 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Harrington on March 15 alleging that the 
Arlington School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on February 10; and you 
responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated March 9, following an extension of time 
granted by our office. The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Committee deliberated outside 
of a meeting via Facebook. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find no evidence that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating 
via Facebook. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed open session minutes from Committee meetings held between 
January and September 2016, as well as Facebook posts provided to us by the complainant. 
Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on March 17, and with the complainant by telephone on 
December 12. 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a seven-member public body; thus four 
members constitute a quorum. A quorum of the Committee are members of two groups on 
Facebook - Arlington School Enrollment Parent Group and Arlington Resist. 
The Arlington School Enrollment Parent Group was formed in November 2015 by 
Arlington parents to inform the community of the challenges posed by the growing student 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
FACTS 
Cs 
===PAGE 2===
enrollment and to advocate for sensible solutions to address them. Membership in this Facebook 
group consists of more than 1,300 members, including five members of the Committee. This 
Facebook group is open to the public. 
Arlington Resist was formed in February 2017 by a group of concerned citizens who 
come together to exchange information and ideas, and to turn their dissatisfaction with the 
federal government into informed action. Membership in this Facebook group consists of more 
than 250 members, including four members of the Committee. The four Committee members 
were invited to join Arlington Resist; this Facebook group is not open to the public and is for 
members only. 
Committee members Jennifer Susse, Kirsi Allison-Ampe, and Paul Schlichtman have 
posted comments pertaining to school enrollment issues and renovation of Arlington schools on 
the Arlington School Enrollment Parent Group Facebook page. We find no evidence that any 
member of the Committee posted comments about topics related to Committee business to the 
Arlington Resist Facebook page. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridae. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 
3OA, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the 
distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may 
be discussed at a meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. For the 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority of the members of a public 
body. Id 
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Committee are members of Facebook groups 
"that discusses school committee business." We find no evidence that a quorum of the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating via Facebook. Where a quorum of 
the members of a public body are also members of a Facebook group, that is not in and of itself a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. However, if a member of the Committee were to 
communicate directly with a quorum of the Committee over social media platforms such as 
Facebook, such communication may violate the Open Meeting Law. We find no evidence that 
Committee members communicated with a quorum of the Committee on the Arlington Resist 
Facebook page. However, individual Committee members posted comments pertaining to 
school enrollment issues and renovation of certain Arlington schools to the Arlington School 
Enrollment Parent Group Facebook page. While the posts related to Committee business, we 
find no evidence that the posts involved communication directed to a quorum of the Committee, 
or that Committee members responded to the posts of other members. The Open Meeting Law 
does not restrict an individual's right to make comments to the general public. See OML 2017-
2 
===PAGE 3===
111.2 Here, we find that the posts by individual Committee members were directed to members 
of the public with Arlington School Enrollment Parent Group Facebook accounts, rather than 
specifically to a quorum of the Committee. See OML 2017-111; 2015-15 (Open Meeting law 
restricts communication between or among a quorum of a public body outside of a meeting, 
indicating that the communicator's intent must be examined). 
The complainant suggests that there are other numerous communications and posts by 
and between Committee members on the Arlington School Enrollment Parent Group Facebook 
page, and likely on the closed Arlington Resist Facebook page that should be investigated. We 
do not conduct broad audits of a public body and thus limit our review to the evidence presented 
to us in the complaint. Nevertheless, members of public bodies must be careful not to engage in 
deliberation with other members of the same public body over social media platforms. 
Recognizing that it may be difficult to determine whether communication constitutes 
deliberation under the Open Meeting Law, our office cautions public bodies on the use of 
Facebook and other social media. See AGO FAQ on Deliberation and Electronic 
Communication.3 
For the reasons stated above, we find no evidence that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a meeting. We now consider the complaint addressed by 
this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that 
may be pending with our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 
963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Stephen Harrington 
Arlington School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 Available at http://www.mass.gov/ago/government-resources/open-meeting-law/oml-faqs/. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 