===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 T EL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
August 6, 2020 
 
OML 2020 – 96  
 
 
Thomas A. Mullen, Esq. 
Law Offices of Thomas A. Mullen, P.C. 
40 Salem Street, Building 2, Suite 12 
Lynnfield, MA 01940 
 
By e-mail only: tmullen@thomasamullenpc.com 
 
RE:            Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Mullen: 
 
This office received a complaint from Timothy Toomey on May 18, 2020, and a second 
complaint on June 17, 2020, alleging that the Rowley Conservation Commission (the 
“Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The first complaint was 
originally filed with the Commission on April 30, and you responded, on behalf of the 
Commission, by letter dated May 14. The second complaint was originally filed with the 
Commission on May 18, and Chair Daniel Shinnick responded, on behalf of the Commission, by 
letter dated June 2. The first complaint alleges that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to notify abutters of the March 31 meeting, and by “editing” and “censoring” the 
video recording of the March 31 meeting to delete the complainant’s comments. The second 
complaint alleges that the Commission failed to follow proper procedure in responding to the 
first complaint.   
 
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaints, the Commission’s responses to the complaints, the 
requests for further review filed with our office, and the notices and minutes of the 
Commission’s March 10, March 31, and May 12 meetings. We find that the Commission did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged. 
 
 
1 All dates in this letter will refer to the year 2020 unless otherwise noted. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Public bodies must post notice of each meeting “at 
least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and  
every notice must include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that 
the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public 
bodies must list topics for discussion with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public 
of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a 
topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the 
topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  
 
The first complaint alleges that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to notify abutters of the March 31 meeting. On March 25, the Commission posted notice 
of a meeting to be held on March 31 and the notice included a detailed list of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipated would be discussed. The Open Meeting Law does not require public 
bodies to provide additional notice of meetings to specific individuals or groups of individuals 
for topics discussed during a meeting. See OML 2019-17; OML 2013-41.
2 Therefore, where the 
Commission properly posted notice of the March 31 meeting, we find that the Commission did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to separately notify abutters of this meeting.  
 
The first complaint also alleges that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
“editing” and “censoring” the video recording of the March 31 meeting to delete the 
complainant’s comments. The Open Meeting Law does not require that public bodies record 
their own meetings. See OML 2014-82; OML2013-40. Rather, the Open Meeting Law requires 
that a public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive 
sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a). Here, the complainant spoke during the March 31 meeting and the meeting minutes 
include the complainant’s comments regarding the alteration of wetlands at 366 Central Street in 
Rowley. The complainant does not suggest that the minutes are insufficiently detailed or 
inaccurate. As such, where the Open Meeting Law does not require that public bodies record 
their own meetings, and therefore does not address whether a public body may edit a video 
recording of a meeting, and further where the meetings minutes are sufficiently detailed, we find 
that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law.3 
 
We note that Governor Charles Baker’s March 12 Executive Order, which suspended 
certain requirements of the Open Meeting Law in response to the outbreak of the 2019 novel 
Coronavirus (“COVID-19”), only requires that a public body post a full and complete transcript, 
recording, or other comprehensive record on its website as soon as practicable after the meeting, 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, https://www mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law.  
3 We offer no opinion on whether a public body may alter or edit a video recording of a meeting as that is outside 
the scope of the Open Meeting Law and this office’s jurisdiction. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
only where a municipality is unable to provide adequate, alternative real-time access to a 
meeting. See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20 
(Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”). Here, the Commission provided real-time access to the 
March 31 meeting by streaming the meeting on Rowley Community Media TV, as well as 
GoToMeeting. Therefore, the Commission was not required to post a recording of its meeting on 
the municipal website.  
 
The second complaint alleges that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to follow proper procedure in responding to the complainant’s first Open Meeting Law 
complaint. Open Meeting Law complaints must be filed with a public body within 30 days of an 
alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3). The public body must then respond 
to the complaint within 14 business days. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). The chair 
must disseminate copies of all complaints to members of the public body and before responding 
must “meet to review the complaint’s allegations” and formulate a response or meet to delegate 
that authority. See 940 CMR 29.05(5); OML 2017-96; OML 2012-90. The public body must 
review an Open Meeting Law complaint before authorizing an individual to respond on its 
behalf. See OML 2014-74. Here, the Commission discussed the complaint during a May 12 
meeting, and Chair Shinnick confirmed that all members had received and read the complaint. 
The Commission then unanimously voted to delegate the responsibility of responding to the 
complaint to Town Counsel. Once a public body has reviewed a complaint during a meeting, its 
decision to simply refer the complaint, rather than discuss its substance, is the public body’s 
prerogative. See OML 2019-40; OML 2017-96. Moreover, forwarding a complaint to legal 
counsel prior to a meeting does not violate the law as long as the public body reviews the 
complaint and any draft response during a meeting, approves the draft response during that 
meeting, and then either decides to send the response itself or authorizes legal counsel to send 
the response. See OML 2018-134. Because the Committee met and discussed the complaint 
during the May 12 meeting and is permitted to delegate the responsibility for responding to 
complaints, we find that the Commission’s procedure here complied with the Open Meeting 
Law, and we therefore find no violation of the law.   
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
  
Sincerely, 
  
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
   
Assisted by:  Alina Cathcart, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
  
cc: Timothy Toomey – By e-mail onl y:  
Rowley Conservation Commission – By e-mail only: conservation@townofrowley.org 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must 
be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one. 
 
