===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 10, 2015 
OML 2015- 114 
John M. Flick, Esq. 
Gardner City Solicitor 
144 Central Street, Suite 201 
Gardner, MA 01440 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Flick: 
This office received a complaint from Kim Dembrosky, dated May 15, alleging that the 
Gardner City Council (the "Council") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 
The complaint was originally fded with the Council on January 30, and, after two extensions of 
time were granted, the Council responded by letter dated March 17.2 In her complaint, Ms. 
Dembrosky alleges that a quorum of the Council members attended and deliberated at a "forum," 
or information session, that was not properly noticed to the public. 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Council's response; and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed a video recording of the 
information session at issue, which was held on January 26. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Council consists of eleven members, thus six members 
constitute a quorum. On January 7, the Council posted notice for a meeting to take place on 
Monday, January 26. The purpose of this meeting was for the Council to hear a presentation 
from Mayor Mark Hawke and other parties regarding the development of an ambulance service 
operated by the City of Gardner. On Friday, January 23, Council President James Walsh sent a 
memorandum to all other Council members stating that the January 26 meeting was being 
cancelled because preparatory materials for the meeting had not yet been provided. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 We also received a separate response from Council member Scott Graves, dated March 18. 
I* SEIU 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
Later in the afternoon on Friday, January 23, Mayor Hawke sent an e-mail to various 
stakeholders in the community stating, in pertinent part, "I am unclear as to why the meeting was 
cancelled... I invite you to attend a public presentation of 'Cost Analysis Concerning a Gardner 
Fire Department-operated BLS Ambulance Service.'... Everyone is invited to attend. 
Councilors are still able to attend and partake in this public forum as no decisions are to be 
rendered, it is strictly an informational session for everyone." On Saturday, January 24, Mayor 
Hawke forwarded this e-mail to all members of the Council. 
On January 26, the Mayor held the information session described in his e-mail. The 
meeting lasted approximately one hour and twenty minutes. At the beginning of the information 
session, five Council members were present. Approximately one hour into the information 
session, a sixth Council member arrived, at which point a quorum of the Council was present. 
During approximately the last thirty minutes of the presentation, there was a question-and-
answer period. Four of the six Council members present asked questions. All of the questions 
asked by Council members were directed to Mayor Hawke and not to each other. One of the 
Council members expressed the opinion that the proposed action would increase the City's 
overtime budget. No other Council member expressed an opinion. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law is designed to eliminate "much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghighlione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L, c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A 
"deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority 
of the member of the public body. Id. 
A quorum of the Council was present during the Mayor's January 26 information session. 
Generally, a quorum of a public body is permitted to attend a public gathering or training 
program provided that its members do not engage in deliberation. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18 
(defining "Meeting"). Here, it appears from our review of the meeting video that the Council 
members did not deliberate. Indeed, it appears that they participated on the same terms as 
members of the general public. While a quorum was present for the last 20 minutes of the 
information session, there was a substantial portion of the meeting for which only five members 
were present. Additionally, only four of the members present spoke. We have stated in the past 
that no improper deliberation takes place when less than a quorum participates in a discussion at 
a public event like the one at issue here. See OML 2012-69. Here, the members present did not 
sit together at the meeting, did not speak to each other, and they did not directly interact at all. 
Compare OML 2011-6 (finding a violation where members of the body "deliberated by sitting 
together as a quorum at the front table facing the audience and addressing issues raised by 
members of the public that were within the jurisdiction of the [body].") Participating in this type 
of open discussion does not constitute deliberation. G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2012-22. We note 
that a public body may not circumvent the Open Meeting Law's requirements by using a non-
member, such as the Mayor, to communicate on matters that the body would otherwise need to 
2 
===PAGE 3===
discuss during an open meeting. See District Attorney for the Northern District v. School 
Committee of Waviand, 455 Mass. 561, 570-571 (2009). Here, the limited participation by the 
Council members took place in the open. We therefore do not believe that the Council was 
acting here to circumvent the law. Accordingly, we find that the Council did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Kim Dembrosky 
Gardner City Council 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 