===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
VIA EMAIL      December 13, 2021  
Catherine Hilton 
Chair, Shutesbury Board of Health 
 
 
 RE:  Reconsideration of OML 2021 – 178 
Dear Ms. Hilton: 
Our office received your November 30, 2021, email requesting reconsideration of our 
November 30, 2021, determination, OML 2021-178, resolving a complaint filed by Michael 
Hootstein against the Shutesbury Board of Health (the “Board”). You requested that the 
Division of Open Government (the “Division”) reconsider the determination because it 
incorrectly stated that you were the Chair of the Board at the time, when in fact the Chair was 
Norene Pease.  
 
There is no statutory right to reconsideration by the Office of the Attorney General of 
an Open Meeting Law determination or declination. While the Division generally will not 
reconsider past determinations, the Division may grant reconsideration where the request 
identifies a clerical or mechanical error in the determination or a significant legal or factual 
issue that the Division may have overlooked or misapprehended in resolving the complaint.  
We grant your request for reconsideration and reissue the determination in order to reflect 
that, although you were serving on the Board in April of 2021, you were not the Chair of the 
Board at that time.  
 
We now consider the complaint to be resolved. Please feel free to contact our office at 
(617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.  
      Sincerely, 
 
        
      Sarah Monahan 
      Assistant Attorney General 
      Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Michael Hootstein (via e-mail:  
 Shutesbury Town Clerk Grace Bannasch (via e-mail:  
 Shutesbury Town Administrator Rebecca Torres (via e-mail: 
 ) 

===PAGE 2===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 13, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 178 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Catherine Hilton 
Chair, Shutesbury Board of Health 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Hilton: 
This office received a complaint from Michael Hootstein on May 27, 2021, alleging that 
the Shutesbury Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 26, and the Board 
responded by letter dated May 6.1 In his complaint, Mr. Hootstein alleges that the Board 
deliberated outside of a posted meeting.2, 3 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a posted meeting in only one instance, via an April 22 email. In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, 
and the complainant’s request for further review, including 10 exhibits. We reviewed several 
emails involving Board members and other individuals, which Mr. Hootstein provided to us in 
his request for further review, and a supplemental letter dated June 16, which added Exhibits 11 
and 12.4 Finally, we communicated by email with you in October and November 2021.5 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 The complaint also alleges that Board interferes in the election of future Board members and did not allow the 
public to participate in a discussion regarding the PFAS issue. We note that, even if true, these allegations would not 
constitute a violation of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Accordingly, we decline to review them. See OML Declination 1-
25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 
3 We decline to review any additional allegations contained in the request for further review that were not included 
in the original complaints filed with the public body. Our office does not conduct broad audits of public bodies and 
will address only specific allegations made in an Open Meeting Law complaint. See OML 2020-2; OML 
Declination 4-22-15 (Natick Economic Development Committee). 
4 We will continue to refer to the emails by the exhibit numbers assigned by Mr. Hootstein for clarity.  
5 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 

===PAGE 3===
2 
 
FACTS 
 We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body. In early 2021, the 
Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection (“DEP”), coordinating with scientists at 
the University of Massachusetts (UMass), created a map of Shutesbury which listed several 
locations in town which DEP suspected might have been contaminated by per- and 
polyfluoroalkyl substances (“PFAS”). The map was part of a collaboration between DEP and 
UMass to provide a free PFAS testing program to selected Shutesbury residents. On March 12, 
DEP and UMass representatives met virtually with Board Member Catherine Hilton and Board 
Member Al Werner. Based on feedback received in this meeting, two potential contamination 
sites were added to the Shutesbury PFAS testing map.  
 The Board has a shared town email address. During the relevant time period, only Board 
members, Catherine Hilton and Arleen Read, had access to the shared account. Beginning around 
April 19, Mr. Hootstein exchanged several emails with the Board, using the shared email 
address. The Town Administrator was copied on some of the emails. Mr. Hootstein labeled these 
emails Exhibits 3, 4 and 5. 
 On April 22 at 7:45 a.m., Member Werner also joined the conversation with an email to 
the shared account, which he addressed to Member Hilton and Member Read, complimenting 
their work for the town and stating that “[u]nfortunately, you are Hootstein’s current lighting 
[sic] rod for all that he thinks unfair in the world.” Both Mr. Hootstein and the Town 
Administrator were copied on this email, which Mr. Hootstein labeled Exhibit 6. Mr. Hootstein 
responded to this email at 9:19 a.m., criticizing the Board’s approach to the PFAS issue and 
requesting an apology from Member Werner. Mr. Hootstein’s email is labeled Exhibit 7.  
 Finally, on April 22 at 11:51 a.m., Member Werner wrote an email to Mr. Hootstein, 
copying the shared Board email address and the Town Administrator. Member Werner stated 
that “I don’t agree with your assessment of the town’s water supply nor do I agree with your 
assessment of Shutesbury’s Board of Health. The BOH works hard, putting in lots of hours for 
the benefit of the town residence [sic] and I am appalled that you have the audacity to suggest 
otherwise – shame on you!” In this email, Member Werner then requested that Mr. Hootstein 
apologize to the Board and notified the Town Administrator that he wanted to “raise a formal 
complaint against Mr. Hootstein for his on-going and unfounded harassment of the BOH.” Mr. 
Hootstein has labeled this email as Exhibit 11. 
DISCUSSION 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an 
emergency, “a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A “meeting” is 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id. For the purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id. 
===PAGE 4===
3 
 
 A one-way communication from one public body member to a quorum on matters within 
the body’s jurisdiction constitutes deliberation for purposes of the Open Meeting Law, even if no 
other public body member responds. See OML 2016-104; OML 2015-33; OML 2012-73.6 The 
Open Meeting Law does not carve out an exception to the definition of “deliberation” for 
discussions that do not result in a decision or vote. See OML 2020-93. A public body may not 
engage in serial communication whereby a quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous 
manner outside of a meeting on a subject within the public body’s jurisdiction. See OML 2015-3; 
McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008). 
 Here, Mr. Hootstein alleges that the Board discussed the creation of the PFAS map 
outside of posted meetings, therefore denying the public access to deliberations about PFAS.7 As 
an initial matter, because only two Board members, Member Hilton and Member Werner, met 
with the DEP and UMass representatives on March 12, that meeting did not constitute 
“deliberation,” as defined by the Open Meeting Law, as less than a quorum of the Board was 
present. Therefore, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this respect.   
 We also reviewed the emails which Mr. Hootstein received in response to a public 
records request, which he contends show deliberation. First, we examine Exhibit 4, an email in 
which Member Read informed Mr. Hootstein that she would relay his questions about the PFAS 
map to the other members of the Board at the Board’s next meeting. We find that Exhibit 4 did 
not constitute deliberation, because the email was sent from the Board’s shared email account to 
Mr. Hootstein, and therefore did not reach a quorum of the Board. The Board explains that 
during the relevant time period, only Member Hilton and Member Read had access to the shared 
account. The emails sent from the shared account which we reviewed were also only ever signed 
by Member Hilton or Member Read. Absent evidence to the contrary, we credit the Board’s 
explanation of the facts. See OML 2020-94; OML 2019-132. We therefore find that the Board’s 
did not deliberate in Exhibit 4 as Member Read’s email did not reach a quorum of the Board. 
 Two emails that we reviewed—Exhibits 6 and 11—included a quorum of the Board. In 
Exhibit 6, Member Werner wrote to the shared Board account complimenting Member Hilton 
and Member Read on their work for the town and stating that “[u]nfortunately, you are 
Hootstein’s current lighting [sic] rod for all that he thinks unfair in the world.”8 Although Exhibit 
6 was sent by one Board member to other Board members, thus reaching a quorum, the subject 
of the email was not on a matter of public business within its jurisdiction. We have found that a 
topic falls outside the scope of a body’s jurisdiction where: (i) it does not involve the public 
body’s exercise of governmental business, policy, or administration; (ii) it relates to personal 
matters, such as the safety and well-being of public body members and/or their families; and (iii) 
collective action by the body, such as taking a vote, is not anticipated on the topic. See OML 
 
6 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
7 Specifically, Mr. Hootstein alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a posted meeting when it communicated 
via email on April 22, held an improper executive session on April 22 without notice being posted to the public, and 
denied the public access to the meeting. We construe all of these allegations as alleging that the Board held an 
unposted “meeting” in violation of the Open Meeting Law when it engaged in email communications on April 22, 
and we address the allegations jointly. 
8 Although incivility towards a member of a public body or the public does not constitute a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law, we encourage civility by all parties in correspondence about public body business. See OML 2019-
166; OML Declination 6-28-16 (Kingston Board of Selectmen). 
===PAGE 5===
4 
 
2018-1. In the April 22 email, Member Werner complimented his colleagues and criticized Mr. 
Hootstein without mentioning any matters which the Board has authority over. For this reason, 
we find that Exhibit 6 was not a communication “with respect to any matter within the body’s 
jurisdiction.” Therefore, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this respect.  
 Finally, Exhibit 11 was also sent by Member Werner to the shared email account, along 
with Mr. Hootstein and the Town Administrator. Because both Member Hilton and Member 
Read had access to the shared email account, this email included three members of the Board, a 
quorum. In the April 22 email, Member Werner stated that “I don’t agree with your assessment 
of the town’s water supply nor do I agree with your assessment of Shutesbury’s Board of 
Health.” Both the town’s water supply and the overall functioning of the Board are matters 
within the Board’s jurisdiction. See OML 2017-91 (finding that discussion of a public body’s 
operation is public business within the body’s jurisdiction). Therefore, we find that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a posted meeting via the April 22 
email labeled Exhibit 11.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a posted meeting via email. We order the Board’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a determination by our office 
of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  
 We also order the Board to publicly release the email labeled Exhibit 11 within 30 days 
of receipt of this determination, if the Board has not already done so. The Board may publicly 
release the email by reading its contents during a meeting and listing the email in the meeting 
minutes, or by referencing the email during a meeting and posting the email along with the 
minutes on the municipal website. 
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Michael Hootstein (via e-mail: ) 
 Shutesbury Town Clerk Grace Bannasch (via e-mail:  
 Shutesbury Town Administrator Rebecca Torres (via e-mail: 
  
 
 

===PAGE 6===
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 