===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey
Attorney General
(617) 727-2200 
www, m ass.gov/ago
March 28, 2017 
OML 2017-49
Bruce Cullett
Chair, Peru Board of Selectmen 
3 East Main Road 
Peru, MA 01235
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Mr. Cullett:
This office received two complaints from Kimberly Wetherell on November 18, 
alleging that the Peru Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaints were originally filed with the Board on or about October 
28, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, in letters both dated November 2.2 In both 
complaints, Ms. Wetherell alleges that the Board improperly convened in executive session. 
Additionally, Ms. Wetherell alleges that the executive session topic listed on the Board’s 
October 24 meeting notice lacked sufficient detail.
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include sufficient detail about the executive session topic, both in the notice and in 
the announcement prior to the executive session, and by failing to provide written notice to an 
individual who was the subject of an executive session under Purpose 1. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notices, 
open and executive session minutes of the Board’s meetings held on October 1; October 24; 
and October 31. Finally, we communicated by email with the Town Administrator and Board 
Chair Bruce Cullett in February and March 2017.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. In June, Officer Kayla Reuss, a police officer in the Peru 
Police Department, filed a complaint with the Board against the Police Chief. On October 1, 
the Board convened in executive session to discuss the complaint. The meeting notice, posted
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016, unless otherwise indicated.
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter.

===PAGE 2===
on September 28, listed the topic as “Discussion with Officer Kayla Reuss & Possible 
Executive Session.” The Board revised the topic the day before the meeting, on September 
30, by writing next to the topic, “Reason #1 Complaint.” Approximately a week prior to the 
meeting, Board member Edward Munch verbally notified the Police Chief of the anticipated 
executive session, but he declined to attend.3 Upon convening in open session, the Board 
asked Officer Reuss whether she would like to hold the discussion in open or executive 
session, to which she replied that she would like to hold it in executive session. The Board 
then voted by roll call “to go into executive session to consider and hear the complaints or 
charges brought against a public officer, employee, staff member, or individual and to 
reconvene in open session.” During the executive session, the Board and Officer Reuss 
discussed Officer Reuss’ complaint against the Police Chief.
On October 24, the Board again convened in executive session, this time to discuss an 
appeal pending with the Appellate Tax Board. The meeting notice listed this topic as 
“Executive Session to discuss strategy with respect to ongoing litigation. Discussing Strategy 
in open session may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the Town.” Prior to 
the executive session, the Board voted by roll call to convene in executive session “to discuss 
strategy with respect to litigation.” Chair Cullett declared that discussing the strategy in open 
session “may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the Town.” During the 
executive session, the Board discussed the status of the pending appeal.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Executive session topics must be described in as much detail as possible 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. See District 
Attorney for the Northern District v. School Committee of Way land, 455 Mass. 561, 567 
(2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is 
necessary...because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would 
conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing 
so was proper or improper”).
One reason for a permissible executive session is, “[t]o discuss the reputation, 
character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an 
individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought 
against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) 
(“Purpose 1”). The individual to be discussed in a Purpose 1 executive session must be 
notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive 
session. Id The individual must also be afforded the right to be present during the 
deliberations that involve that individual, the right to speak on his or her own behalf, the right
3 Following this complaint, the Town Administrator confirmed with the Police Chief that the Board notified him 
of the meeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
to have counsel present to advise but not participate, and the right to have an independent 
record of that meeting made at the individual’s own expense. Id.
Another permissible reason to convene in executive session is, “[t]o discuss strategy 
with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.” 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).
I. The Board’s October 1 Executive Session Discussion under Purpose 1 was
Proper, however the Board Failed to Provide Written Notice to the Individual
who was the Subject of the Discussion.
The complaint alleges that the Board’s October 1 executive session was improper. The 
Board discussed a complaint filed by Officer Reuss against the Police Chief. Although this 
discussion was appropriate under Purpose 1, the Board did not provide the Police Chief, who 
was the subject of the complaint, with the requisite written notice.4 See G.L. c. 30A,
§ 21(a)(1). For this reason, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. Because 
the Board provided the Police Chief with verbal notice of the meeting, however, for which the 
Police Chief declined to attend, any resulting error is harmless. See OML 2014-96 (no 
violation where a public body made reasonable efforts to comply with the notice requirement 
and the individual had actual notice of the meeting); OML 2017-33; OML 2017-22.5
II. The Board’s October 24 Executive Session Discussion was Proper, however
the Notice Topic Lacked Sufficient Detail.
The other complaint alleges that the executive session topic listed on the Board’s 
October 24 meeting notice lacked sufficient detail and that the discussion was improperly held 
in executive session. We find that the discussion was properly held in executive session 
under Purpose 3 as it was a discussion of strategy with respect to defending an appeal of a 
Town Assessor’s appraisal report to the Appellate Tax Board. See OML 2015-142.
However, the topic listed on the notice was insufficient because it did not identify the specific 
litigation matter under discussion. See OML 2016-161; OML 2016-57; OML 2015-193. A 
public body may withhold the identity of the litigation matter if publicly disclosing it would 
compromise the purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A,
§ 21(b)(3); OML 2015-175. While we generally defer to a public body’s assessment of 
whether the inclusion of such details would compromise the purpose for an executive session, 
a public body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for that claim if challenged. See 
OML 2012-118. Here, Chair Cullett posted the topic without identifying the specific 
litigation matter to be discussed, believing in good faith that the topic was sufficiently detailed
4 We note that the topic initially posted on September 28, “Discussion with Officer Kayla Reuss & Possible 
Executive Session,” lacked sufficient detail about the anticipated executive session because it failed to indicate 
the purpose for the closed door discussion. While we commend the Board for adding the additional detail the 
day before the meeting, it did not meet the Open Meeting Law’s requirements because the Board did not provide 
the public with sufficient detail about the executive session at least 48 hours before the meeting.
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: 
www. mass. gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
to comply with the Open Meeting Law. We commend Chair Cullett’s efforts to comply with 
the law, however we find that disclosing the litigation matter, both on the meeting notice and 
in the announcement prior to the executive session, would not have compromised the Board’s 
litigating position as it was a publicly filed appeal. By withholding this information from the 
public, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.6
CONCLUSION
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include sufficient 
detail about the executive session topic, both in the notice and in the announcement prior to 
the executive session. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s 
requirements, and we caution the Board that similar future violations could be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the law. We also find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to provide written notice to an individual who was the subject of an executive 
session under Purpose 1. Because the individual had actual notice of the executive session, 
however, any resulting error is harmless.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Hanne Rush
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Kimberly  Wetherell
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A,
§ 23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of
receipt of a final order.
6 We note that a public body need not identity the statutory citation to the executive session, in this case, “G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(3)”, as long as the topic makes clear which of the ten executive session purposes the public body 
plans to invoke. See 2017-7.
4
