===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 T EL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
July 9, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 81  
 
 
Kenneth J. Rossetti 
Assistant City Solicitor 
City of Malden 
Office of the City Solicitor 
110 Pleasant Street, Third Floor 
Malden, MA 02148 
 
By e-mail only: krossetti@cityofmalden.org 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Rossetti: 
 
This office received two complaints from Ryan O’Malley on April 11, 2019, and May 8, 
2019, alleging that the Malden City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The first complaint was originally filed with the Council on January 11, 
and you responded, on behalf of the Council, by letter dated February 4.  The second complaint 
was originally filed with the Council on February 8, and you responded, on behalf of the 
Council, by letter dated March 1.  Both complaints allege that the Council failed to timely 
approve executive session minutes from a December 11, 2018, meeting.  Moreover, the first 
complaint alleges that the Council failed to timely approve executive session minutes from a 
December 8, 2015, meeting.  The second complaint alleges that the Council failed to timely 
release the December 8, 2015, executive session meeting minutes once the purpose for the 
executive session had concluded and failed to properly respond to a request for executive session 
minutes.  
 
 We appreciate the patience of t he parties while we reviewed these matters.  Following 
our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to announce at its 
next meetings that certain executive session minutes had been reviewed but would continue to be 
withheld from disclosure, and by failing to include that determination in its minutes.  We find 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2019. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged.  We decline to 
review the portion of the second complaint regarding the release of the December 8, 2015, 
executive session minutes for the reasons discussed below.  In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaints, the Council’s responses to the complaints, the complaints filed 
with our office requesting further review, and the Council’s June 26, 2020, supplemental 
response.  We also reviewed the notices and open session minutes of Council meetings held on 
January 8, January 15, January 22, January 29, and February 5.  Finally, we spoke with the 
complainant by telephone on August 14, and June 11, 2020, and communicated with you by 
email on April 24, 2020, May 8, 2020, and May 28, 2020.    
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The complainant is a member of the Council.  The Malden 
City Clerk also serves as clerk of the Council, attends Council meetings, and keeps a journal of 
all Council acts, votes and proceedings.  See Malden City Charter, section 15.  During a 
November 11, 2015, meeting, the Council unanimously voted that “the City Clerk and City 
Solicitor review executive session minutes to determine which can be made public.”  Former 
City Clerk Karen Anderson attested that she was also responsible for recording and approving 
accurate minutes of executive session meetings.  Thomas Brennan succeeded Ms. Anderson as  
City Clerk and served in that role from January 2017 until September 2019; Gregory Lucey is the 
current City Clerk.       
 
On December 8, 2015, the Council met in executive session to discuss appraisal of the 
Malden Hospital property and the status of negotiations for the temporary relocation of City 
offices.  The Council discussed the possibility of purchasing a property at 110 Pleasant Street for 
temporary offices, including the value of the property to the City and how much to offer for the 
property.  At the end of this discussion, the Council unanimously authorized the Mayor to enter a 
land disposition agreement for the 110 Pleasant Street property.  On April 4, 2016, the City 
acquired the property and registered a quitclaim deed with the Middlesex South District Registry 
of Deeds.   
 
On December 15, 2018, and January 22, the Council received public records requests for 
copies of executive session minutes of the Council’s December 8, 2015, meeting.  The Council 
convened in executive session on January 8 for the stated purpose of reviewing the December 8, 
2015, executive session minutes but then did not end up reviewing those minutes during the 
meeting.  During its January 15 and January 29 meetings, the Council met in executive session, 
reviewed the December 8, 2015, executive session minutes, and discussed whether continued 
non-disclosure of those minutes was warranted.  The Council determined, during both the 
January 15 and January 29 meetings, that the December 8, 2015, executive session minutes could 
not be released because the matters discussed during that meeting with respect to the 110 
Pleasant Street property were still ongoing. 
 
During the January 15 meeting, the complainant orally requested from the City Clerk and 
City Council President the January 8 executive session meeting minutes.  The Council did not 
respond to this request.   
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
On November 5, this office issued determination OML 2019-143 in which we found that 
the lawful purpose for secrecy of the Council’s discussions during its December 8, 2015, meeting 
with respect to the 110 Pleasant Street property had expired.  Therefore, we ordered the Council 
to release that portion of its December 8, 2015, executive session minutes pertaining to 
discussions regarding the property at 110 Pleasant Street. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We Find that Executive Session Meeting Minutes were Approved in a Timely 
Manner. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body create and approve meeting minutes, 
for both open and executive sessions, in a timely manner.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  “Timely 
manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is 
later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.”  940 CMR 29.11; see OML 
2018-48.  Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next 
meeting.  See OML 2018-67; OML 2017-133.2 
 
The first complaint alleges that the Council failed to approve its December 8, 2015, and 
December 11, 2018, executive session meeting minutes in a timely manner when it did not 
approve those minutes during a January 8 meeting.
3  The second complaint alleges that the 
Council again failed to approve its December 11, 2018, executive session meeting minutes in a 
timely manner by not approving those minutes during a January 15 meeting, and failed to 
approve its January 8 executive session meeting minutes in a timely manner by not approving the 
minutes by February 7.   
 
Approval of executive session minutes is a separate and unrelated obligation from the 
requirement that executive session minutes be periodically reviewed to determine whether they 
should be released to the public.  See OML 2019-115.  This initial approval of executive session 
minutes is to approve the minutes as an accurate record of what occurred at a particular executive 
session and does not mean that the minutes are approved for release to the public.  Here, the City 
Clerk is responsible for approving executive session minutes of Council meetings.4  The Open 
Meeting Law does not govern the method for approving minutes.  Public bodies may choose the 
method for approving their minutes, including approval by the public body chair alone or another 
designated individual, by majority vote of the public body, or by consent of the body (approved 
unless there is an objection).  See OML 2019-107; OML 2019-25.  When a quorum of a public 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law.  
3 We note that, even if the Council was responsible for approving executive session minutes, the Council could not 
have violated the Open Meeting Law by not approving the December 11, 2018, executive session minutes during its 
January 8 meeting because the January 8 meeting was only the second meeting to have occurred since December 11, 
2018.   
4 The complainant contends that the Council failed to provide documentation or minutes confirming that the Council 
discussed and designated the City Clerk with the responsibility of approving executive session minutes.  Even if 
true, this would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law as the Law does not govern the method for 
approving minutes.   
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
body approves minutes, however, it must do so during a noticed meeting.5  Because the City 
Clerk has been tasked with responsibility for approving executive session minutes on the 
Council’s behalf, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
vote during a meeting to approve its December 8, 2015, December 11, 2018, and January 8 
executive session minutes within the next three meetings or 30 days.  Former City Clerk 
Anderson, who was City Clerk at the time of the December 8, 2015, meeting confirmed that she 
regularly reviewed and approved executive session minutes.  Moreover, Assistant City Solicitor 
Kenneth Rossetti6 has assured this office that City Clerk Thomas Brennan, who was City Clerk 
at the time of the December 11, 2018, and January 8 meetings, had continued that practice and 
regularly reviewed and approved executive session minutes by the Council’s next meeting.  
Although the Open Meeting Law does not govern the method of approving minutes and therefore 
it is permissible for the City Clerk alone to approve meeting minutes, if minutes are not approved 
by vote during a subsequent meeting and that vote recorded in the minutes, we recommend that a 
public body utilize some other method of recording the date on which minutes are approved so as 
to provide a clear record that the body has complied with the law’s requirement of timely 
approving minutes.  Nonetheless, despite the lack of a specific record as to when each set of 
minutes was approved, in the absence of evidence to the contrary and based on the explanation 
of the City Clerk’s usual practice, we are satisfied that each set of executive session minutes was 
approved in a timely manner. 
 
II. The Council Violated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Announce During a 
Meeting that Executive Session Minutes would be Withheld. 
 
Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(f).  When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and 
any documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client 
privilege or an exemption to the public records law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, 
from disclosure.  See id.  A public body, or its chair or designee, has an obligation to review the 
minutes of executive sessions at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of 
minutes is warranted, and to announce that determination at the next meeting following its 
review.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1); see OML 2019-35; OML 2015-94.  As stated above, the City 
Clerk and City Solicitor have been designated to “review executive session minutes to determine 
which can be made public” and we have been assured that such review was done on a regular 
basis.   
 
However, the Open Meeting Law further requires that, after such review, a determination 
of whether minutes can or cannot be released must be announced at the public body’s next 
meeting and be recorded in the minutes.  See G.L. c. 30 A, § 22(g)(1); OML 2020-23.  This way, 
there is a clear record of which executive session minutes have been approved for release to the 
public and which remain withheld.  As such, even if the City Clerk and/or City Solicitor 
conducted a review of executive session minutes, an announcement of their determination 
 
5 See our FAQ on Meeting Minutes at https://www.mass.gov/info-details/frequently-asked-questions-about-the-
open-meeting-law#frequently-asked-questions-about-meeting-minutes-. 
6 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
regarding whether non-disclosure was still warranted must be made at the following Council 
meeting.   
 
We note first that the Council reviewed the December 8, 2015, executive session minutes 
during its January 15 and January 29 meetings in order to respond to public records requests for 
the minutes.  During both the January 15 and January 29 meetings, the Council determined that 
the purpose for the executive session was still ongoing and therefore the minutes could not be 
released.  However, the Council did not announce at its following meetings on January 22 and 
February 5 its determination that the minutes would continue to be withheld, nor was that 
determination noted in its meeting minutes.  Moreover, after reviewing two months of Council 
meeting minutes, we find that none of the meeting minutes included any statement reflecting the 
City Clerk’s or City Solicitor’s determination of which executive session minutes had been 
reviewed to determine whether the purpose for secrecy was ongoing, and which minutes would 
be released and which would continue to be withheld.7  We find that the Council violated the 
Open Meeting Law by failing to announce at its meetings on January 22 and February 5 that the 
December 8, 2015, executive session minutes would continue to be withheld and by failing to 
include that determination in its minutes.   
 
With respect to the complaint’s allegation that the Council failed to release the December 
8, 2015, minutes, we decline to review this allegation because we have already decided the issue 
in a previous determination.  See OML 2019-143.  In that determination, issued on November 5, 
we concluded that the lawful purpose for secrecy of the Council’s discussions on December 8, 
2015, regarding the 110 Pleasant Street property had expired and we ordered the Council to 
release that portion of its December 8, 2015, executive session minutes pertaining to the 110 
Pleasant Street property, unless the attorney-client privilege or another exemption to the Public 
Records Law applied.  See OML 2019-143.  Because we have already decided this issue, we do 
not address it here.   
 
III. The Council did not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Review 
Executive Session Minutes. 
 
The second complaint also alleges that the Council failed to review its January 8 
executive session minutes during its January 22 meeting.  Here, the complainant requested the 
January 8 executive session minutes during a January 15 meeting and therefore contends that the 
Council was required to review those executive session minutes at its next meeting on January 
22.  Upon request by any person to inspect or copy the minutes of an executive session or any 
portion thereof, the body must respond to the request within 10 days following receipt and 
release any such minutes where publication would not defeat the lawful purposes of the 
executive session.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2).  If, at the time of a request, the public body has 
not conducted a review of the minutes to determine whether continued nondisclosure is 
warranted, the body must perform such a review and release the minutes, if appropriate, no later 
 
7 After the Open Meeting Law complaints at issue were filed with the Council, Council President Jadeane Sica 
“tasked” City Solicitor Kathryn Fallon with reviewing executive session minutes to determine whether non-
disclosure was warranted, City Solicitor Fallon performed such review, and President Sica publicly announced, 
during the Council’s March 5 meeting, whether particular executive session minutes warranted continued non-
disclosure or whether release was recommended. 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
than its next meeting or within 30 days, whichever occurs first.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2); OML 
2019-3; OML 2013-180.  Assistant City Solicitor Rossetti stated that as a member of the Council 
the complainant is entitled to receive any executive session minutes.  Here, the complainant did 
not make a formal, written request for the minutes nor indicate that he was making his request 
pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, but rather a verbal request in the midst of a meeting.  We 
find that the Council reasonably interpreted the complainant’s request for the January 8 
executive session minutes as simply a request from a Council member for minutes to which he 
was entitled regardless and not as a request made under the Open Meeting Law which triggered 
the Law’s requirements to review the minutes at its next meeting for potential release to the 
public.  As such, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it did not 
review the January 8 executive session minutes at its January 22 meeting.    
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, w e find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to announce at its next meetings that certain executive session minutes would continue to 
be withheld from disclosure and by failing to include that determination in its minutes.  We order 
the Council’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that 
similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
       
        
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       A s s i s t a n t  A t t o r n e y  G e n e r a l  
       D i v i s i o n  o f  O p e n  G o v e r n m e n t  
 
 
cc: Ryan O’Malley – By e-mail only: romalley@cityofmalden.org 
 Malden City Council – By e-mail only: citycouncil@cityofmalden.org 
 
 
  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
