===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
August 20, 2012 
OML 2012 — 76 
Christopher Clark 
Town Manager 
Town of Southbridge 
41 Elm St. 
Southbridge, MA 01550-2638 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Clark: 
This office received two complaints alleging that the Southbridge Town Council (the 
"Council") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The first complaint, by 
Laurent McDonald, was originally filed with the Council on or about September 16, 2011, and a 
request for further review of this complaint was filed with our office on October 23, 2011. The 
second complaint, by Ann Fenwick Beinema, was originally filed with the Council on or about 
September 30, 2011, and a request for further review of this complaint was filed with our office 
on November 7, 2011. You responded to both complaints, on behalf of the Council, by letters 
dated October 5, 2011 and November 1, 2011, respectively. 
Both complaints allege that, on September 12, 2011, the Council entered into executive 
session to discuss strategy relative to pending or imminently threatened litigation, but actually 
discussed the reputation, character, discipline or dismissal of a public officer, namely Board of 
Health member Ann Fenwick Beinema. 1  Both complaints assert that there was no pending or 
imminent litigation involving Fenwick Beinema, and Fenwick Beinema's complaint alleges that, 
because her reputation and character were being discussed, she was denied the rights afforded to 
the subject of such a discussion under executive session Purpose 1. Finally, McDonald's 
complaint alleges that the notice for the executive session was defective because it cited the 
previous version of the Open Meeting Law, and stated the incorrect purpose for the executive 
session. 
In his October 23, 2011 complaint filed with our office, McDonald raises similar concerns about the Council's 
September 26, 2011 meeting. Because these allegations were not raised in the original complaint filed with the 
Council, we decline to review them here, however we offer this letter as guidance on the issues raised. 
===PAGE 2===
We reviewed the September 16, 2011 and September 30, 2011 complaints filed with the 
Council; the Council's October 5, 2011 and November 1, 2011 responses; the October 23, 2011 
and November 7, 2011 complaints filed with our office; a letter to the Town Manager2  from 
Attorney Gary Brackett, dated August 10, 2011; a letter to Town Counsel Robert Caprera from 
Attorney Brackett, dated September 12, 2011; the notice for and the open and executive session 
minutes of the Council's September 12, 2011 meeting; a video recording of the Council's 
September 12, 2011 open session meeting; the notice for and the open and executive session 
minutes of the Council's September 26, 2011 meeting; a confidential memorandum from the 
Town Manager to the Town Council, dated September 19, 2011; a confidential memorandum 
from McDonald to the Council, dated September 26, 2011; and email correspondence sent to our 
office by the Town Manager's assistant, dated June 21, 2012, attaching certain requested 
documents and information. Finally, we spoke with the Town Manager by telephone on June 6, 
2012. 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing matters related to Fenwick Beinema in executive session on September 12, 2011, or 
by not granting Fenwick Beinema the rights guaranteed by executive session Purpose 1 in 
connection with that meeting. We do, however, find that the meeting notice for the September 
12, 2011 meeting and the verbal statement preceding the Council's vote to enter executive 
session on that date were not sufficiently specific to advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed during that executive session. 
FACTS 
Because our review of the material listed above included executive session minutes and 
documents that remain confidential, we are unable to provide a full recitation of the facts. The 
publicly available facts are as follows. 
The Southbridge Town Council is a nine member body. Complainant McDonald is a 
member of the Council. 
On August 10, 2011, Attorney Gary Brackett sent a letter to the Town Manager regarding 
his client, Ann Fenwick Beinema's, position as a member of the Board of Health of the Town of 
Southbridge.3  The letter concluded by saying, "I trust that it will not be necessary to institute 
litigation to protect my client's rights to hold her position for the term of office to which she was 
appointed." 
On September 8, 2011, the Council posted notice for a September 12, 2011 meeting. The 
notice listed as Agenda Item 19, "Vote to enter into Executive Session according to Chapter 39, 
Section 23B, §6, to review settlement of collective bargaining agreement, litigation settlement 
and potential litigation and to return to vote."4  
2  For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
3  For a discussion of the events preceding Attorney Brackett's letter, see OML 2012-32, available on the Attorney 
General's website at www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
4  The Council's notice and verbal statement of the purpose for its executive session incorrectly cited to the old 
version of the Open Meeting Law, which was replaced by the current statute more than a year before this meeting. 
In the future, the Council should cite to the current law, which can be found at G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
On September 12, 2011, Attorney Brackett sent a letter to Attorney Robert Caprera, 
Town Counsel for Southbridge, regarding that evening's scheduled Council meeting. In his 
letter, Attorney Brackett stated his belief that an executive session regarding his August 10, 2011 
letter would violate the Open Meeting Law for two reasons. First, he stated that "any discussion 
of complaints or charges" involving his client must take place pursuant to executive session 
Purpose 1, which affords certain rights to the person being discussed. Second, he stated that 
litigation was not pending or imminent because his letter had been sent more than 30 days earlier 
"and no litigation, pursuant thereto is either pending or imminent." 
The Council held an open meeting that night, and seven members of the Council 
attended. After a brief discussion about which section of the Open Meeting Law should be cited 
as the basis, a roll call vote was taken, pursuant to Agenda Item #19, to enter into executive 
session "According to Chapter 39, Section 23B, §3, to review settlement of collective bargaining 
agreement, litigation settlement and potential litigation and to return to vote." The motion 
passed, with all seven councilors, including the complainant, voting in favor. 
During the executive session, the Council met with Attorney Caprera and discussed 
Attorney Brackett's August 10, 2011 letter and the implications of certain proposed courses of 
action related to Fenwick Beinema's position on the Board of Health. Ultimately, the Council 
voted to postpone further discussion of this agenda item until September 26, 2011. The Council 
also discussed several unrelated litigation matters and the progress of certain collective 
bargaining negotiations during the executive session. 
On September 26, 2011, the Council held an open meeting. All nine members of the 
Council attended the meeting. The notice for this meeting listed as Agenda Item 20, "Vote to 
enter into Executive Session according to Chapter 39, Section 23B, §3, to discuss and [sic] 
executive session Open Meeting Law Violation and to continue discussion with respect to 
potential litigation and to adjourn." The open session minutes show there was considerable 
debate about the propriety of the executive session and whether proper procedures were being 
followed, but ultimately a roll call vote was taken and the councilors voted unanimously to enter 
executive session. 
During the executive session, the complainant provided the Council with additional detail 
about the Open Meeting Law violations alleged in his complaint. After discussing the complaint, 
two Councilors, including McDonald, excused themselves from the meeting and the Council 
continued the discussion it began on September 12, 2011 about the consequences of various 
options for the considering removal of Fenwick Beinema from the Board of Health. During the 
course of the discussion, several Councilors made remarks indicating the reasons they believed 
Fenwick Beinema should be dismissed. 
On October 19, 2011, the Council discussed the allegations against Fenwick Beinema 
during an open session meeting, and voted to declare her appointment to the Board of Health 
"invalid" on the grounds that it was obtained by "false pretenses." To date, no litigation has 
been filed by Fenwick Beinema against the Town. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, provided 
that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for the executive 
session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). 
One permissible reason for executive session is Purpose 1, "No discuss the reputation, 
character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an 
individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, 
a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). If a public 
body enters executive session under Purpose 1, the individual discussed in the session must be 
notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session 
and afforded certain other rights. Id. 
Although the complainants allege that the Council discussed Ann Fenwick Beinema's 
reputation, character, discipline or dismissal during its September 12, 2011 executive session, the 
Council did not cite Purpose 1 as the reason for that executive session. Instead, it cited another 
permissible reason for executive session, Purpose 3, "No discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3). The mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke executive session Purpose 
3. Litigation must be pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably 
likely. OML 2012-43; OML 2012-5. 5  
Here, the Council entered into executive session on September 12, 2011 under Purpose 3 
because litigation was clearly threatened in Attorney Brackett's letter. Although Attorney 
Brackett's September 12, 2011 letter stated that no litigation was pending or imminent, looking 
at all that transpired prior to that date, it was reasonable for the Council to anticipate litigation in 
response to certain actions that the Council might take, and to seek legal guidance on the 
potential legal consequences of these actions. See OML 2012-5. While the executive session 
minutes reflect some discussion of the facts of her case and the Council's options in deciding it, it 
appears that the focus of the conversation was the litigation consequences and not the merits. 
Fenwick Beinema still had the opportunity to present her position to the Council, which she did 
during the October 19, 2011 open session meeting, and the Council deliberated on her removal in 
open session before voting on it. Because the Council did not discuss whether or not to 
discipline or dismiss Fenwick Beinema during the September 12, 2011 meeting, we find that it 
was not required to afford her the rights guaranteed under Purpose 1. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(1); OML 2012-53. 
Finally, we address McDonald's allegation that the meeting notice was deficient because 
Agenda Item19 incorrectly cited Purpose 6, instead of Purpose 3, as the statutory basis for the 
5  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/agolopemneeting.  
4 
===PAGE 5===
executive session, and because the Council cited to the old, repealed version of the Open 
Meeting Law. McDonald acknowledges in his complaint that the Council corrected its error and 
cited the correct number Purpose before voting to enter executive session on September 12, 
2011. While we commend the Council for catching and correcting this oversight during that 
meeting, we nevertheless fmd the meeting notice deficient for a separate reason, namely that the 
Council failed to state Agenda Item 19 on the notice with sufficient specificity. 
Public bodies must list anticipated discussion topics in their meeting notices with 
"sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2011-44. The agenda item in the notice for the 
Council's September 12, 2011 meeting listing the anticipated executive session fell short of this 
standard. See District Attorney for Northern Dist. v. School Committee of Wayland, 455 Mass. 
561, 567 (Mass. 2009) ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is 
necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public 
that the school committee would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would 
know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper"). The Council discussed several 
pending litigation matters and the progress of certain collective bargaining negotiations during its 
September 12, 2011 executive session, in addition to its discussion of Attorney Brackett's letter 
and its potential response. The meeting notice should therefore have stated the names of all 
pending litigation matters that the Council anticipated discussing during the executive session, 
and the names of all bargaining units being discussed, if doing so would not have compromised 
the purpose for the executive session. See OML 2012-68; OML 2011-54. 
Furthermore, we note that prior to entering executive session, the chair of the public body 
must also "state the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(b)(3). During the September 12, 2011 open session meeting, a motion was made to enter 
executive session for the same reasons stated in the meeting notice (with the exception of the 
corrected citation to Purpose 3, rather than Purpose 6). For the same reasons that the notice was 
not sufficiently detailed, this statement also failed to provide enough information so that a 
member of the public would understand the nature of the executive session. We also note that, 
before entering executive session to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or 
litigation, the Chair must declare that having the discussion in open session may have a 
detrimental effect on the body's bargaining or litigating position. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). It 
does not appear that such a statement was made prior to entering executive session on September 
12, 2011. We remind the Council of the importance of following these procedures prior to 
entering executive session, and offer this letter as future guidance. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by discussing matters related to Fenwick Beinema in executive session on September 12, 
2011, or by not granting Fenwick Beinema the rights guaranteed by executive session Purpose 1 
in connection with that meeting. We do fmd that the meeting notice for the September 12, 2011 
meeting and the verbal statement preceding the Council's vote to enter executive session on that 
5 
===PAGE 6===
date were not sufficiently specific to advise the public of the issues to be discussed during that 
executive session. Accordingly, we order immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law and caution that future similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to 
violate the law. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions or 
believe any facts in this letter to be inaccurate. 
Amy L. Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Southbridge Town Council 
Laurent McDonald 
Aim Fenwick Beinema 
Gary S. Brackett, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
6 