===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON,- MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 15, 2014 
OML 2014-114 
Clement Brown, Esq. 
Horvitz & Brilhante, LLP 
321 North Main Street 
P.O.Box 2568 
Fall River, MA 02722 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Brown; 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Patrick Higgins, dated July 31, alleging that 
the Somerset Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about July 28, and you 
responded to that complaint on July 31. In his complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that the Board 
deliberated privately on the appointment of a new town police chief. 
Following our review, we have decided to resolve this complaint by informal action, in 
accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a). We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this conclusion, we reviewed the complaint and the response. We also 
interviewed Chief George McNeil by phone on September 5. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that deliberations occur during a noticed meeting. G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18, 20. A "deliberation" is an "oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business 
within its jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Our review of the Board meeting minutes for July 18 
and July 21 reveals no evidence that would support the inference that the Board members 
deliberated outside of those meetings. 
During the July 18 meeting, the Board conducted public interviews with five candidates 
for the police chief position, indicating that an appointment would be made on July 21. During 
the July 21 meeting. Selectman Lebeau stated that two candidates had stood out during the 
interview process. One of those two finalist candidates was disqualified because family 
commitments prevented him from moving to Somerset (a requirement for the position). 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
o 
===PAGE 2===
Accordingly, Selectman Lebeau made a motion to offer the position to the remaining candidate, 
then-Lieutenant McNeil, and the Board approved the motion. 
The complaint contends that the presence of Lt. McNeil's family at the meeting suggests 
that Lt. McNeil had been notified in advance of the meeting that he had been selected. We note 
that all five candidates were informed during the Board's July 18 meeting that the decision 
would be made during the July 21 meeting. It is not unreasonable for family members to be 
present at a meeting of this type. Chief McNeil denies that he communicated with any Board 
member outside of a meeting, and we find no evidence beyond conjecture to support the 
complainant's allegations. Accordingly, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
We now consider this complaint to be resolved. This determination does not address any 
other complaints that may be pending with our office or with the Somerset Board of Selectmen. 
Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely., 
V; 
Kevin Mangafhan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Mr. Patrick Higgins 
Somerset Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
2 