===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 24, 2017 
OML 2017-119 
Townsend Board of Selectmen 
c/o James M, Kreidler, Jr. 
Townsend Town Administrator 
272 Main Street 
Townsend, MA 01469 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Kreidler: 
This office received a complaint from Veronica Kell on April 19 alleging that the 
Townsend Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
3OA, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 7; and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated April 6, following an extension of time 
granted by our office. The complaint alleges that the Board failed to timely review its 
executive session meeting minutes and provide those minutes upon request. 
On June 22, we issued determination OML 2017-102 finding that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to properly respond to a request for meeting 
minutes. Following our review of this complaint, we find that the Board once again 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to properly respond to a request for meeting 
minutes. However, we do not find an intentional violation because the request for 
meeting minutes at issue here was made several months prior to the Board receiving our 
June determination. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, 
the Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. In addition, we reviewed the open session minutes from the Board's 
January 24, February 21, February 28, and March 7 meetings. 
We find the facts as follows. On January 3, the complainant requested from the 
Board a copy of the executive session minutes from the Board's May 10, 2016 meeting. 
The Board did not respond to this request. The Board met on January 24 but did not 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
review or approve any meeting minutes. On January 26, the complainant appealed the 
Board's lack of response to the Supervisor of Records within the Secretary of the 
Commonwealth's Office. On February 14, the complainant informed the Supervisor of 
Records that she still had not received a copy of the May 10, 2016 executive session 
meeting minutes. Town Administrator James Kreidler responded to the Secretary's 
Office explaining that the Board was expected to approve the minutes at its February 14 
meeting. The Board's February 14 meeting was cancelled, however. On February 21, 
the Board provided the complainant with a copy of the unapproved, draft minutes. 
During its February 28 meeting, the Board approved nineteen sets of open session 
minutes from meetings held between March and December 2016, including May 10, 
2016. The Board mistakenly believed it had approved both open and executive session 
minutes from its May 10, 2016 meeting. In fact, it only approved the May 10, 2016 open 
session minutes during its February 28 meeting. On March 3, the complainant requested 
from the Board a copy of the approved executive session minutes from the Board's May 
10, 2016 meeting. During its March 7 meeting, the Board approved the executive session 
minutes from the May 10, 2016 meeting. However, the Board did not respond to the 
complainant's request for the minutes. On March 21, the complainant appealed the 
Board's lack of response to the Supervisor of Records within the Secretary of the 
Commonwealth's Office. On March 23, the Board provided the complainant with a copy 
of the approved executive session minutes. The May 10, 2016 executive session minutes 
were posted to the town website on April 5. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The 
meeting minutes must be reviewed and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 3OA, § 
22(c). Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public "as long 
as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the 
minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the 
attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the public records law applies to withhold 
them, in whole or in part, from disclosure. See id. Public bodies have an obligation to 
review the minutes of executive sessions at reasonable intervals to determine if continued 
non-disclosure of minutes is warranted, and to announce that determination at the next 
meeting following its review. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1); see OML 2013-56; OML 2015-
94.2 
Upon request by any person to inspect or copy the minutes of an executive session 
or any portion thereof, the body must respond to the request within 10 days following 
receipt and release any such minutes where publication would not defeat the lawful 
purposes of the executive session; provided, however, that if the body has not performed 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www. mass. go v/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
a review, the public body must perform the review and release the non-exempt minutes, 
or any portion thereof, not later than the body's next meeting or 30 days, whichever first 
occurs. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to review the May 10, 2016 executive 
session minutes to determine whether there was a continued purpose for nondisclosure, 
and failed to respond to her multiple requests for those minutes. The Board was 
obligated to respond to the complainant within 10 days of her January 3 request. 
However, the Board did not respond until February 21 when it provided her with a copy 
of the unapproved, draft minutes. The Board should have informed Ms. Kell within 10 
days of her request that it was conducting a review of the executive session minutes. See 
OML 2016-135; OML 2013-99. Because the Board did not do so, it violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to properly respond to a request for minutes. The complainant 
then requested copies of the approved executive session minutes on March 3. The Board 
promptly approved the minutes for release during its next meeting on March 7 but did not 
provide copies of the minutes until March 23. Thus, the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to provide a copy of the approved minutes within 10 days. 
The Open Meeting Law further requires that upon a request for executive session 
minutes a public body must review, if it has not already done so, the minutes at its next 
meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2); OML 2016-135. Here, the Board's next meeting 
was on January 24 yet it did not conduct a review at this meeting. We appreciate that the 
Board planned to review and approve the May 10, 2016 executive session minutes at its 
February 14 and February 21 meetings but was unable to do so when those meetings 
were cancelled. However, where the Board did not review the minutes at the next 
available meeting on January 24, we find that it violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to properly 
respond to a request for executive session minutes. We order the Board's immediate and 
future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar future 
violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Board or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if 
you have any questions regarding this letter. 
CONCLUSION 
Sinrerplv 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 
===PAGE 4===
cc: Veronica Kell 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 