===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 11, 2015 
OML 2015 - 129 
Jeff McKittrick, Chair 
Huntington Board of Selectmen 
P.O. Box 430 
24 Russell Road 
Huntington, MA 01050 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. McKittrick: 
This office received a complaint from Ann Daley, dated June 16, alleging that the 
Huntington Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board held an unnoticed executive session 
during its March 18 meeting. The original complaint was mailed to the Board on April 16, 
though the Board received it on April 21. The Board responded by letter dated May 6. 
Following our review, we find that the notice for the Board's March 18 meeting failed to 
sufficiently identify an anticipated executive session discussion. In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed the complaint filed with the Board, the Board's response, and the complaint filed 
with our office. We also reviewed the notice for, and minutes of, the Board's March 18 meeting. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The notice for the Board's March 18 meeting, posted on 
March 13, included the following topic: "In response to a mediation question posed by Nom 
Khumalo, Compliance Officer for the Mass. Commission Against Discrimination, there will be a 
vote by Selectboard Members to decide whether or not to enter into mediation with former van 
driver, Ann Daley, who has filed a Complaint of Discrimination with MCAD against the Town 
of Huntington." At the bottom of the notice appeared the following statement: "A PORTION OF 
THIS MEETING MAY BE HELD IN EXECUTIVE SESSION AS OUTLINED UNDER 
M.G.L. CH. 3OA, S.21."2 
1 All dates refer to the year 2015. 
2 While this statement did not appear on the online version of the meeting notice, the official notice posting location 
for Huntington is the bulletin board at Town Hall. 
a SEIU 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
During the Board's March 18 meeting, the Board entered into executive session, "as 
outlined under M.G.L. C.30A, Sec. 21(#9): 'To meet with a mediator regarding any litigation or 
decision; provided that (i) any decision to participate in mediation shall be made in open session 
and the parties disclosed and (ii) no action shall be taken with respect to the issues involved 
without deliberation and approval of the action at an open session.'" While in executive session, 
the Board discussed its liability insurance coverage with respect to Ms. Daley's discrimination 
claim.3 Upon returning into open session, the Board voted not to negotiate with Ms. Daley or her 
attorney. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body must post notice of every meeting, and must include in the notice "a listing 
of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). In general, this level of detail 
applies equally to open session and executive session topics listed on a meeting notice. See 
OML 2011-56; OML 2011-15.4 However, given the sensitive nature of executive session topics, 
it may be reasonable at times for a public body to withhold details that may compromise the 
puipose for entering executive session. See OML 2011-56. Prior to entering into an executive 
session, the Chair must state the purpose for the executive session as well as identify all subjects 
that may be revealed without compromising the purposes for executive session. See G.L. c. 3OA, 
§ 21(b)(3); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); District Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wavland. 455 
Mass. 561, 567 ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is 
necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public 
that the school committee would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would 
know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper"). 
As an initial matter, we find that the Board posted notice in the proper location by posting 
to the bulletin board at Town Hall, in accordance with G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c). The Board provided 
sufficient detail regarding the nature of its discussion regarding Ms. Daley's discrimination 
complaint, however failed to specifically note that it anticipated entering into executive session 
to discuss that issue. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b), 21(b)(3); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). The notice did state 
that the Board might meet in executive session for a portion'of the meeting. However, the notice 
did not clearly indicate that the Board anticipated entering into executive session as part of its 
discussion regarding Ms. Daley's discrimination complaint, nor did it identify under which of the 
10 statutory purposes it planned to hold that discussion. This omission violated the Open 
Meeting Law. 
3 Although not raised in the complaint, we note that G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(9), is not an appropriate executive session 
purpose for discussing liability insurance coverage with respect to a claim where the Board has not taken a prior 
public vote to enter into mediation with the claimant. The Board should have cited G.L, c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) as the 
proper purpose for this executive session, which permits a public body to enter into executive session to discuss 
strategy with respect to litigation, 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www,mass,gov/ago/opemneeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
In response to the complaint, the Board acknowledged that, "a notice of its intent to 
convene in executive session on March 18, 2015 was omitted from the agenda posted to the 
Town's website." Further, the Board offered to remedy the violation by publicly releasing the 
minutes of the March 18 executive session and by providing a copy of those minutes to Ms. 
Daley. While we find the violation to be slightly different from that acknowledged by the Board, 
we nevertheless find this to be appropriate remedial action in response to the complaint. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the notice for the Board's March 18 meeting failed to sufficiently identify an 
anticipated executive session discussion. We find that the Board took appropriate remedial 
action in response to the complaint by releasing the minutes of that executive session and we 
order no additional relief. We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter 
does not resolve any other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Board. 
Please feel free to contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this 
letter. 
Sincerely, 
cc: Ann Daley 
Christine M. Pikula, Esq. 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 