===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
October 27, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 195 
 
VIA EMAIL ONL
 Y 
 
Judith Whiteside 
Chair, Wareham Board of Selectmen 
JWhiteside@wareham.ma.us  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Whiteside: 
 
This office received a complaint from Joan Kinniburgh on June 6, 2022,
1 alleging that the 
Wareham Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 6. The Board did not formally 
respond to the Open Meeting Law complaint. The complaint alleges that the Board has failed to 
provide executive session meeting minutes in response to a request for such minutes.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to release executive session meeting minutes and by creating insufficient executive session 
meeting minutes. We also note that the Board failed to properly respond to the Open Meeting 
Law complaint. In reaching this determination we reviewed the original Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the request for further review, documents provided by Ms. Kinniburgh, additional 
communications from Ms. Kinniburgh, and the minutes for executive sessions held on October 5, 
November 9, and November 16, 2021. We also communicated with the Chair of the Board via 
email.
2 Finally, we reviewed notices for Board meetings held between July 1, 2021, and 
February 8, 2022. 
 
FACTS 
 
The complaint relates to the Town of Wareham’s acquisition of the Little Harbor Country 
Club, and specifically stems from a request made by Ms. Kinniburgh under the Public Records 
Law on April 11 for the following:  
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise noted. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
1. Board of Selectmen members and Town Administrator: All emails regarding 
Little Harbor Country Club (LHCC) to and between all parties from August 1, 
2021 to April 11, 2022. 
2. The executed Purchase and Sale Agreement for Little Harbor Country Club 
(LHCC). 
3. Board of Selectmen Executive Session minutes regarding Little Harbor Country 
Club (LHCC) from August 1, 2021 to April 11, 2022.  
 
Emails responsive to this request were provided to Ms. Kinniburgh, but the purchase and 
sale agreement and executive session minutes were not. Ms. Kinniburgh appealed the Town’s 
response to the Supervisor of Records (the “Supervisor”) within the Secretary of the 
Commonwealth’s office. Ultimately, after a second appeal was filed, the Supervisor issued a 
determination letter on May 5 (SPR22/1022) ordering the Town to provide an additional 
response to Ms. Kinniburgh with respect to the purchase and sale agreement. The Supervisor’s 
May 5 determination letter also explained that the Town’s response to the request for executive 
session minutes raised an issue that falls under the Open Meeting Law and suggested that the 
parties contact our office for a determination with respect to the Open Meeting Law issue. 
Thereafter, Ms. Kinniburgh filed the present complaint on May 6.   
 
On May 27, our office emailed the Town Clerk and the Chair of the Board explaining 
that Ms. Kinniburgh had filed an Open Meeting Law complaint and noting that we were unaware 
of any response from the Board to the Open Meeting Law complaint. On June 6 the Chair 
forwarded to our office via email the documents the Town had provided to Ms. Kinniburgh in 
response to her public records request. In the June 6 email, the Chair explained that “[t]he 
executive session minutes have not yet been approved by the Board of Selectmen, therefore they 
are not included in our response.”  
 
On August 5 our office emailed the Chair asking for clarification as to whether the Board 
was asserting that the purpose for the executive sessions at issue remained ongoing such that the 
Open Meeting Law justified continued withholding of the executive session minutes. We also 
requested 1) a list containing the date of each executive session the Board held between August 
1, 2021, and April 11, 2022, during which it discussed the Little Harbor Country Club; 2) a copy 
of the minutes for each such executive session; and 3) information explaining the basis for any 
assertion that the executive session purpose was ongoing. In response to this request, the Chair 
explained that “[a]t the time of Ms. Kinniburgh’s request, the purpose for which the executive 
sessions had been called (the Town of Wareham’s land acquisition of [the Little Harbor Country 
Club]) had not been completed.” The Chair further explained that a legal challenge has been 
brought, at least in part by Ms. Kinniburgh’s spouse, regarding the use of Community 
Preservation Act funding in purchasing the Little Harbor Country Club. Finally, the Chair 
explained that “[t]he property has been acquired, so to the extent that the executive sessions deal 
solely with the acquisition, (as contrasted with Ms. Kinniburgh’s spouse’s litigation), the minutes 
will be released no later than August 31, 2022,” and that “[t]he executive session minutes of 
October 5, 2021, November 9, 2021 and November 16, 2021 will be released at the Board of 
Selectmen’s meeting on August 23, 2022 as they deal solely with the acquisition.” The minutes 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
for executive sessions held on October 5, November 9, and November 16, 2021, were thereafter 
provided to Ms. Kinniburgh and she provided them to our office.   
 
The Board did not provide our office with a list of the dates on which it discussed the 
Little Harbor Country Club nor copies of executive session minutes, as requested. Nonetheless, 
based on a review of the notices for Board meetings held between July 1, 2021, and February 8, 
2022, it appears that the Board intended to meet in executive session to discuss the purchase of 
the Little Harbor County Club thirteen additional times. Meeting notices for Board meetings held 
on September 7, September 14, September 28, October 12, October 19, November 2, November 
23, November 30, December 7, December 14, and December 28 of 2021, as well as January 4 
and February 8 of 2022, state “M.G.L. 30A §21 (6) Re: Little Harbor-purchase of property To 
consider the purchase, exchange, lease [or] value of real property if the chair declares that an 
open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body.”
3 
Additionally, on August 31, Ms. Kinniburgh emailed the Senior Department Assistant to the 
Selectmen, copying our office, asserting that the Board met in executive session to discuss the 
Little Harbor Country Club on the above listed dates and requesting the minutes for those 
executive sessions. To our knowledge, the Board did not dispute Ms. Kinniburgh’s assertion that 
the Board met in executive session to discuss purchase of the Little Harbor Country Club on the 
above listed dates.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(f).
4 When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any 
documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege 
or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, from 
disclosure. Id. One permissible purpose for convening in executive session is to “consider the 
purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may 
have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) 
(“Purpose 6”). Purpose 6, narrowly construed, permits a public body to meet in executive session 
to protect its negotiating position when seeking to purchase, exchange, or lease real estate, or to 
discuss the value of real estate where it has a negotiating position relative to that property. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6); Allen v. Board of Selectmen of Belmont, 58 Mass. App. Ct. 715, 719-
721 (2003); OML 2019- 143; OML 2016-50. Purpose 6 is intended to preserve confidentiality in 
 
3 Ms. Kinniburgh also asserted that the Board met in executive session on July 1 and 27, 2021, to discuss the Little 
Harbor Country Club and that minutes for these executive sessions have not been provided to her. These meetings 
fall outside of the request at issue here which was for executive session minutes from August 1, 2021, to April 11, 
2022. Additionally, nothing on the notices for these meetings clearly suggests that the Board discussed the purchase 
of the Little Harbor Country Club in executive session on either date.  
4 We note that it is unclear whether the Board approved its executive session minutes in a timely manner. We remind 
the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies create and approve meeting minutes, whether for 
open or executive session, in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); 940 CMR 29.11. “Timely manner” means 
“within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show 
good cause for further delay.” 940 CMR 29.11. The Open Meeting Law also includes a sperate and distinct 
obligation that public bodies periodically review their executive session minutes to determine if they should be 
approved for release to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
negotiating the value of the property to be purchased, exchanged, or leased to avoid putting the 
public body at a disadvantage in its negotiations for the property. See Allen, 58 Mass. App. Ct. at 
720; OML 2016-50; OML 2019-10. 
 
Here, the Board has explained that the purpose for the executive sessions held to discuss 
the pu
rchase of the Little Harbor Country Club has been served and is no longer ongoing. 
Therefore, to the extent there are additional sets of minutes for executive sessions in which the 
Board discussed the purchase of the Little Harbor Country Club, the Board must release those 
minutes, or portions of those minutes that relate to the purchase of the Little Harbor Country 
Club. See OML 2019-143 (finding that once the purchase of a piece of property was complete, 
the lawful purpose for secrecy—the protection of the public body’s negotiating position—had 
expired and the public body could no longer rely on the Open Meeting Law to withhold 
executive session minutes). We do not order the Board to release portions of executive session 
minutes that relate to ongoing litigation matters in which the Board has a litigating position. 
Furthermore, the Board may redact portions of minutes to which the attorney-client privilege or 
an exemption to the Public Records Law applies. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). If Ms. Kinniburgh 
disputes the validity of any redactions, she may file an appeal with the Supervisor.  
 
Next, al
though not raised in the complaint because the executive session minutes had not 
yet been released to Ms. Kinniburgh, we find that the Board’s October 5, November 9, and 
November 16, 2021, executive session minutes are insufficiently detailed. The Open Meeting 
Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a 
member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear 
understanding of what occurred. See OML 2016-105.
5 Although a transcript of the discussions is 
not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented, minutes 
must include a substantive summary of the discussion on each topic. See OML 2020-57; OML 
2018-8; OML 2012-29. The Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes include more than 
a statement that a public body held a discussion about a specified topic; the Law requires that the 
minutes summarize the discussion that was held. See OML 2020-57; OML 2019-167.  
 
Based on our review of the October 5, November 9, and November 16, 2021, executive 
session minutes, we find that the minutes merely contain a list of motions made and votes taken 
without summarizing any discussions. In particular, the minutes for executive sessions held on 
November 9 and 16 state that discussions ensued but do not summarize those discussions. 
Additionally, the minutes to do not include the place of the meetings. We order the Board to 
amend the October 5, November 9, and November 16, 2021, executive session minutes, and any 
other related minutes that are similarly insufficient. 
 
Finally, we note that the Board did not properly or timely respond to Ms. Kinniburgh’s 
Open Meeting Law complaint. The Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
receipt of a complaint, the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take 
remedial action, if appropriate; send to the complainant a response and a description of any 
remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a 
description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). We remind 
the Board of its obligation to comply with all requirements of the Open Meeting Law, including 
the requirement to timely respond to Open Meeting Law complaints. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to release executive session minutes and by failing to create sufficiently detailed 
executive session minutes. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of an 
intent to violate the Law. Additionally, we order the Board to amend its October 5, November 9, 
and November 16, 2021, executive session minutes, and any other related executive session 
minutes that are similarly insufficient, in accordance with the guidance provided above. Finally, 
we order the Board to release to Ms. Kinniburgh any additional sets of executive session meeting 
minutes pertaining to the purchase of the Little Harbor Country Club, subject to any appropriate 
redactions as described above. The Board must certify to our office that it has complied with this 
order within 60 days of the date of this determination.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Joan Kinniburgh (via e -mail: ) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
