===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
June 24, 2019
OML 2019 - 76
Swansea Recreation Commission 
c/o John F. McAuliffe 
Swansea Town Administrator 
81 Main Street 
Swansea, MA 02777
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Mr. McAuliffe:
This office received three complaints from Patrick Higgins on May 171 alleging that the 
Swansea Recreation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Commission on or about April 9, 
and the Commission responded by letter dated April 26. In his complaints, Mr. Higgins alleges, 
generally, that the Commission posted notices that were insufficiently detailed for meetings held 
on March 19, April 2, and April 11. The Commission responds that its agendas were posted with 
the belief that they were sufficiently detailed and that the need to issue sufficiently detailed 
notices has been discussed.2
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a) and find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Commission’s response, 
the request for further review, and the meeting notices and minutes for the three meetings at
1 All dates are in 2019.
2 Mr. Higgins further alleges in his request for review by this office that the Town Administrator, who responded on 
behalf of the Commission, is not a member of the Commission or an attorney, that the Commission’s response does 
not mention that the Commission addressed the complaints or took remedial action, and that there is no indication of 
who “we” refers to in the response. We do not address these allegations as they were not raised in the complaints.
See OML 2012-92. However, we note that the Commission reviewed the complaints at its April 11 meeting and that 
its response is sufficient. We also remind the Complainant that our office has previously determined that “[njothing 
in the regulations prevents a public body, once it has reviewed a complaint during a meeting, from delegating its 
response to an individual, such as a town administrator.” OML 2017-148.
1

===PAGE 2===
issue. We also spoke with the Town Administrator by telephone on June 10 and 19 and to his 
administrative assistant on June 20.
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice 
with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic sufficiently detailed when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35. The Open Meeting Law does not require a 
public body to anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion, only that it 
identify the discussion topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 
2017-186; OML 2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38.
After review of the notices and the minutes for each meeting, we find that the meeting 
notices were sufficiently detailed. For example, the March 19 meeting notice included the 
agenda item “Easter Egg Roll.” At the March 19 meeting, the Commission discussed, in general, 
whether to hold an Easter egg hunt. The agenda item “Easter Egg Roll” was sufficiently detailed 
to put the public on notice that the Commission was going to discuss an Easter egg event. We 
also note that where the Commission’s discussion of a topic was ongoing and developing, this 
was reflected by the inclusion of additional detail in subsequent meeting notices. For example, 
the March 19 meeting notice included the topic “Summer Program.” After review of the meeting 
minutes and discussion with the Town Administrator, we find that the Commission oversees a 
summer program that is referred to as the “Summer Program,” and that the March 19 meeting 
included a general discussion of that specifically-identified program. As the Commission’s 
planning for the Summer Program progressed, subsequent meeting notices included more detail. 
For example, the April 2 meeting notice included the topic “Donations/sponsorships for summer 
program shirts,” reflecting that a continued discussion specifically regarding sponsorship of 
shirts for the Summer Program, which had been raised at the previous meeting, was anticipated 
for the next meeting. Similarly, the April 2 meeting notice included the topic “Spring event 
discussion” and specifically noted “Library director, Eileen Dyer, may attend meeting to 
brainstorm possible collaborations.” At the April 2 meeting Ms. Dyer and another representative 
of the library, Carol Gafford, presented ideas for potential collaborations between the library and 
the Commission. One such idea raised at the meeting was a kite flying event. The April 11 
meeting notice then included under the topic “Spring event discussion” the subtopic “Library 
director, Eileen Dyer, may attend meeting. Carol Gafford may also attend” and the additional 
subtopic “Kite flying contest,” thus adding further detail to the meeting notice once the 
Committee anticipated a more specific discussion. Although additional information with regard 
to some agenda topics, if available, may have been useful to the public, we find that the notices 
were sufficiently detailed. See OML 2017-153; OML 2017-82.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions.
2

===PAGE 3===
Sincerely,,
cc: Patrick  Higgins
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3
