===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
March 13, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 32 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Samantha Vasques, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
227 Union Street 
Suite 606 
New Bedford, MA 02740 
sam@mtclawyers.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Vasques: 
 
This office received a complaint from Cindy King on July 23, 2025,
1 alleging that the 
Townsend Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 12, and, after an extension of time 
granted by our office, you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated June 16. The 
complaint alleges that the Board improperly deliberated during a May 5 meeting of the Finance 
Committee (the “Committee”). 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, and the request for further review. We also reviewed the notice for the 
Committee’s May 5 meeting as well as a video recording of the meeting.
2   
 
  
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the Committee’s May 5 meeting was accessed at: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bWRXnpBw3rM.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held 
on May 5 at 2:50 p.m. The notice included the following substantive topics: 
 
II. Work Session: Votes may be Taken 
11.1 Continue Review Omnibus Finance Committee Version 
11.2 Review Warrant Articles for ATM and STM 
11.2.1 Discussion preparation of recommendation sheets 
 
The Committee convened its meeting as scheduled on May 5, with access provided to the 
public both in person and remotely via Zoom. In addition to the Committee members, a few 
individuals attended the meeting in person, including Board member Veronica Kell. Board 
member Valerie Goodrich attended the meeting via Zoom. The Board is a three-member body, 
and thus two members constitute a quorum.  
 
During its meeting, the Committee discussed, among other things, two annual budgets 
proposed to be sent to Town Meeting, one of which was proposed by the Board. During the 
Committee’s meeting, Ms. Kell sat in the audience with the Chief of Police and at least one other 
meeting attendee. At various times during the meeting, Ms. Kell asked the Committee questions, 
made comments, and provided information regarding the annual budget.  
 
The Chief of Police also spoke during the meeting, as did the other in-person attendee. 
The meeting was relatively informal, and the attendees, including Ms. Kell, sometimes sought 
permission of the Committee before speaking and sometimes did not. Ms. Goodrich, who 
attended remotely via Zoom, did not speak at all during the meeting. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body’s deliberations occur during a 
properly noticed meeting that is open to the public, unless one of ten narrow exceptions apply. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18; 20(a); 21. The Law defines “deliberation” as any “oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. For purposes of 
the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id. A 
“meeting” is a “deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s 
jurisdiction.” Id. However, the Open Meeting Law specifies that a “meeting” does not include 
“attendance by a quorum of a public body at a meeting of another public body that has complied 
with the notice requirements of the open meeting law, so long as the visiting members 
communicate only by open participation in the meeting on those matters under discussion by the 
host body and do not deliberate.” Id. 
 
When determining whether a quorum of a public body has deliberated while attending the 
meeting of another public body, we look for indicia of deliberation such as whether the visiting 
body members were seated with the general public and whether they participated by open 
participation as other members of the public and not in a special capacity as public body 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
members. See OML 2021-108; OML 2016-117; OML 2012-6.3 We also consider whether the 
visiting public body members in attendance appeared to direct their remarks primarily toward 
their fellow public body members in attendance, or whether the remarks were directed primarily 
at the public and the public body holding the meeting. See OML 2021-171; OML 2020-93; OML 
2017-111.  
 
 The complaint alleges that the Board improperly deliberated during the Committee’s May 
5 meeting when Ms. Kell, attending the meeting in person, “interact[ed] with the [Committee] 
regarding the Town Budget developed by the Select Board for Annual Town Meeting . . .” and 
because Ms. Goodrich’s attendance via Zoom meant that a quorum of the Board was present at 
the meeting. The Board responds asserting that it did not improperly deliberate during the 
Committee’s May 5 meeting where Ms. Kell participated openly and her questions and 
comments were directed to the Committee. The Board further notes, as is acknowledged in the 
complaint, that Ms. Goodrich did not speak at all during the meeting.  
 
 After reviewing the video recording of the Committee’s May 5 meeting, we find that the 
Board did not improperly deliberate during the Committee’s meeting. Ms. Kell participated 
openly and in the same manner as other members of the public, discussing matters under 
consideration by the Committee. Moreover, Ms. Kell’s questions and comments were directed to 
the Committee and not to her fellow Board member. We appreciate that the nature of Ms. Kell’s 
questions and comments may suggest that they were made for the purpose of advocating for the 
budget created by the Board, but the fact remains that all of Ms. Kell’s comments and questions 
were directed only to the Committee. Based on the specific facts of this case, we find that Ms. 
Kell’s questions and comments during the Committee’s May 5 meeting did not constitute 
deliberation by the Board despite there being a quorum of the Board in attendance. See OML 
2025–118; OML 2023-93; OML 2023-87.  
 
  
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
 
cc: Laura Shifrin, Chair, Townsend Select Board (via email: lshifrin@townsendma.gov)  
 Veronica Kell, Vice-Chair, Townsend Select Board (via email: vkell@townsendma.gov) 
 Harrison Mayotte, Town Clerk (via email: clerk@townsendma.gov) 
Cindy King (via email: ) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
