===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 11,2017 
OML 2017- 113 
Thomas C. Fallon, Esq. 
Segal, Edelstein, Bussone & Fallon LLP 
900 Cummings Center, Suite 306-T 
Beverly, MA 01915 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Fallon: 
This office received a complaint from Teresa Buono, dated June 16, alleging that the 
Middleton Board of Assessors (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. BOA, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 15, and the Board responded 
by letter dated May 30. In her complaint, Ms. Buono alleges that the Board deliberated on an 
anticipated topic during its April 25 meeting without listing that topic on the meeting notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged 
in the complaint. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's 
response, and the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notices 
and minutes of the Board meetings held on April 11 and 25. Further, we reviewed a 
supplemental letter from the Board, addressed to our office, dated June 20. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body. The complaint 
concerns a proposed warrant article in the Town of Middleton, of which the complainant was a 
proponent. The Board posted noticed for a meeting to be held on April 11. Among other topics, 
the notice stated that the Board would discuss "New Business/Old Business." No further 
information was given as to what the chair anticipated.2 The Board held its April 11 meeting as 
planned. During the "New Business" portion of the meeting, the Board noted an upcoming 
session of Town Meeting on May 9. The Board members expressed disapproval for a proposed 
warrant article and discussed drafting a letter to discourage members of the public from voting 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 While not raised in the complaint, we remind the Board of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law with 
respect to the sufficiency of detail on meeting notices. Anticipated topics must be listed with sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise members of the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
for the warrant article. The Board continued further discussion to a later date when a draft letter 
would be prepared. 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on April 25. Again, the notice listed 
"New Business/Old Business" with no further detail. The Board held its April 25 meeting as 
planned. During the portion reserved for "New Business," the Board discussed a draft letter 
expressing disapproval for the warrant article. The Board voted to approve the letter as written, 
and it also voted to publish the letter in the Tri-Town Transcript and the Salem Evening News. 
The letter was published in the two newspapers on May 5. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body must post notice of each meeting at least 48 hours in advance, including a 
"listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics on a notice with "sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b); OML 2014-47.3 While public bodies may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting 
notice if the topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting, we 
encourage postponement of discussion of such items until proper notice can be given to the 
public. See OML 2013-87; OML 2013-13. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Board discussed the letter opposing the warrant 
article during its April 25 meeting without listing this topic on the meeting notice. The Board 
contends that it did not anticipate discussing the letter during the April 25 meeting because the 
draft discussed was not created until April 25, the day of the meeting. However, we note that the 
matter of the letter was first discussed during the April 11 meeting and continued to a later date. 
We have concluded that such matters, when they have previously come before a public body, 
and are likely to be discussed again, are reasonably anticipated by the chair and may be 
discussed during a meeting only if they are listed on a meeting notice. See OML 2016-101; 
OML 2014-117. Here, the Board discussed the warrant article and proposed drafting a letter 
during its April 11 meeting. Because the Board decided to continue discussion to a later 
meeting, the chair should have anticipated discussion of the topic at the Board's April 25 
meeting. Accordingly, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing the 
letter during its April 25 meeting without listing this topic on the meeting notice. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing an anticipated topic without listing that topic on the relevant meeting notice. We 
order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution 
that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
cc: Middleton Board of Assessors 
Teresa Buono 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganarc 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 