===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
October 24, 2016 
OML 2016-144 
Michael Milanese, Chair 
Wales Board of Selectmen 
3 Hollow Road 
P.O. Box 834 
Wales, MA 01081 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Dear Chair Milanese: 
This office received a complaint from Bruce Cadieux, dated July 25, alleging that the 
Wales Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 22, and the Board responded 
by letter dated June 20.2 In his complaint, Mr. Cadieux alleges that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by: (i) discussing a topic that had not been listed on the meeting notice, and (ii) 
failing to follow proper procedure before convening in executive session. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to follow proper procedure before convening in executive session during its March 22 meeting. 
However, because the executive session topic was not anticipated by the chair at least 48 hours 
in advance of the meeting at issue, the Board was not required to list it in the meeting notice. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice and minutes—both 
open session and executive session—of a Board meeting held on March 22. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 While not raised in the complaint, we note that the Board failed to respond to the complaint within the time frame 
required by law. Unless an extension of time has been granted by our office, a public body must, within 14 business 
days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, send a copy of the complaint to the Attorney General's Office 
and notify the Attorney General's Office of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5), 
(6). We remind the Board of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. At issue is a Board meeting held on March 22. At that 
time, Mr. Cadieux was employed by the Town of Wales as the Highway Commissioner. The 
notice of the March 22 meeting listed several pieces of Old Business and New Business, but it 
did not list any anticipated executive session discussions. 
On the afternoon of March 22—the day of the meeting—Jeffrey Vannais, who was Board 
chair at the time, met with a representative from the highway union. During the conversation, 
the union representative stated that there had been an incident involving Mr. Cadieux. 
The Board held its March 22 meeting as planned. At the end of the meeting, Mr. Vannais 
made a motion to enter executive session "for the purpose of discussing a Highway Department 
personnel issue." Following a vote, the Board entered into executive session. The Board has 
publicly released the minutes of this executive session. During the executive session, the chair 
stated that there had been a complaint against Mr. Cadieux and raised the issue of how the Board 
should handle the complaint. Another Board member objected to the discussion, stating that Mr. 
Cadieux had not received notice of the discussion. There was some discussion over whether the 
Board had jurisdiction over Mr. Cadieux at all. Ultimately, the Board decided to refer the matter 
to its legal counsel. 
DISCUSSION 
I. Because the Board Chair did not Anticipate Discussing the Complainant at Least 
48 Hours Prior to the March 22 Meeting, the Board did not Violate the Open 
Meeting Law with Respect to the Notice. 
A public body must post notice of a meeting at least 48 hours in advance, including a 
"listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 
3 OA, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics on a notice with "sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b); OML 2014-47.3 While public bodies may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting 
notice if the topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting, we 
encourage postponement of discussion of such items until proper notice can be given to the 
public. See OML 2013-87: OML 2013-13. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Board violated the law by entering executive session 
during the March 22 meeting, despite no executive session having been listed on the meeting 
notice. The Board's response states that it had no knowledge of the complaint that was discussed 
during this executive session prior to the chair's meeting with the union representative. The 
complainant has provided no evidence to rebut this assertion, and we credit the Board in this 
regard. See OML 2014-144 (absent evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body's version 
of events). Because the chair did not reasonably anticipate the executive session topic more than 
48 hours before the meeting, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to list the topic in the meeting notice. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
II. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Follow Proper 
Procedure Before Convening in Executive Session. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, provided 
that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for the executive 
session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called." G.L. c. BOA, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3). 
One permissible reason for executive session is Purpose 1, "[t]o discuss the reputation, 
character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an 
individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, 
a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The individual 
to be discussed in such an executive session must be notified in writing by the public body at 
least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session. Id. The individual must also be afforded 
the right to be present during deliberations that involve that individual, the right to speak on his 
or her own behalf, the right to have counsel present to advise but not participate, and the right to 
have an independent record of the meeting made at the individual's own expense. Id. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Board discussed charges Mr. Cadieux during its 
March 22 executive session without providing Mr. Cadieux the procedural rights to which he 
was entitled under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). We agree. While the chair stated that the executive 
session discussion topic would involve a "personnel issue," it is clear from our review of the 
March 22 executive session meeting minutes that the chair intended to discuss a complaint 
against an individual—that is, Mr. Cadieux—and to discuss the steps to be taken in response to 
this complaint.4 Such matters fall squarely within the ambit of Pmpose 1. See G.L. c. 3OA, § 
21(a)(1). Accordingly, the Board's failure to afford Mr. Cadieux the procedural rights to which 
he was entitled violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2016-21. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution 
that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.5 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
4 In its response to the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board expressed uncertainty about how to discuss 
personnel issues. In order to be appropriate for executive session, a discussion between or among a quorum of a 
public body must fit within one of the ten statutory purposes for executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a), Other 
topics, while potentially embarrassing, must be discussed in open session. 
5 We note that our office is empowered to seek nullification of any action taken at a meeting that is not held in 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c)(3). Here, because the Board took no action 
during the executive session at issue, we conclude that no further remedial action is necessary. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Bruce Cadieux 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 