===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
July 25,2019 
OML 2019-88
Brian J. O’Toole, Esq.
Ryan & Boudreau, P.C.
129 College Street 
South Hadley, MA 01075
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney O’Toole:
This office received a complaint from Joseph Chaloux, on April 29, 2019, alleging that 
the Granby Zoning Enforcement Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on March 18, 
2019, and the Committee responded by letter dated April 3, 2019. In his complaint, Mr. Chaloux 
alleges that the Committee has not posted notice of its meetings or created minutes for the past 
two years. Mr. Chaloux also alleges that the Committee deliberated outside of an open meeting.1
Following our review, we find that the Committee fits within the Connelly exception to 
the definition of a “public body” under the Open Meeting Law and therefore the Committee is 
not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, and did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the complaint, the Committee’s response and the 
request for further review. We also reviewed a video of the December 4, 2017, meeting of the 
Granby Board of Selectmen.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. At a December 4, 2017, meeting, the Granby Town 
Administrator spoke to the Granby Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) about his idea for a 
“Granby Zoning Enforcement Committee.” The Town Administrator proposed that the 
Committee be made up of three members, one from each of the town bodies that issue special 
permits: 1) the Planning Board, 2) the Zoning Board of Appeals, and 3) the Board of Selectmen. 
The Town Administrator proposed that he would be the Selectmen’s representative on the 
Committee. The Town Administrator had already asked one member of each of the other Boards 
to be part of the Committee and they had agreed to participate. The Committee’s purpose would
1 The complaint alleges a specific instance of deliberation outside of a meeting took place on February 4, 2019, but 
was not discoverable until a joint meeting of the Select and Planning Boards on February 19, 2019. We therefore 
find the complaint to be timely and will review the allegations therein.

===PAGE 2===
be to “review any zoning issues ... and complaints” and advise the incoming Building Inspector 
about zoning enforcement throughout the Town. The Board responded to this idea by stating that 
“it sounds like a good idea,” but did not vote to approve the creation of the new Committee.
We note that the Board’s December 4, 2017, meeting minutes describe in detail a vote by 
the Board to approve the creation of the Committee. However, the meeting video we reviewed 
clearly shows that there was no such vote. Therefore, based on this clear contrary evidence, we 
find that the Board did not take such a vote. We remind the Board of its obligation under the 
Open Meeting Law to create accurate minutes. G.L. c. 30A §22(a).
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law defines a “public body,” in relevant part, as “a multiple member 
board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or 
within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. However, the Supreme 
Judicial Court has recognized an exemption to the Open Meeting Law’s definition of “public 
body” in Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover. 409 Mass. 232 (1991). In Connelly, the 
Court held that where an individual public official creates a committee to advise that individual 
on a decision that he has the sole authority to make, that committee is not subject to the Open 
Meeting Law. Connelly. 409 Mass, at 235. For the following reasons, we find that the 
Committee fits within the Connelly exception.
I. The Building Inspector has the sole authority to enforce zoning laws in Granby.
First, we must examine the authority of the government official in question, an essential 
factor in Connelly. As the Supreme Judicial Court explained, “[o]f special significance is the fact 
that the superintendent, because he is clearly not a ‘governmental body,’ could, by himself, have 
accomplished the task of screening and interviewing candidates in a closed session, entirely free 
from the requirements of the open meeting law. This was his independent and exclusive statutory 
responsibility ... and the selection committee was assembled merely to assist him in carrying out 
his responsibility.” Connelly. 409 Mass, at 235-36. The same standard was later applied in a 
case in which the Governor created an advisory panel to advise him on a decision that he had the 
ultimate authority to make by himself. Lambert v. Exec. Dir, of Judicial Nominating Council.
425 Mass. 406, 409(1997).
Here, the Committee was created to advise the Building Inspector, a public official who 
possesses actual authority under state statute and town by-law to enforce Granby’s zoning laws.2 
Under the statute:
The inspector of buildings ... shall be charged with the enforcement of the zoning 
ordinance or by-law and shall withhold a permit for the construction, alteration or 
moving of any building or structure if the building or structure as constructed, 
altered or moved would be in violation of any zoning ordinance or by-law; and no
2 The Board has the power to appoint the Building Inspector under G.L. c. 40A §13 and Granby By-laws Chapter 
XVI, Section 1. This appointment structure is analogous to Connelly, in which the Superintendent was appointed by 
the School Committee, but exercised his own powers, including that of appointing an advisory committee.
2

===PAGE 3===
permit or license shall be granted for a new use of a building, structure or land
which use would be in violation of any zoning ordinance or by-law.
G.L. c. 40A §7. The Committee, on the other hand, was granted no actual authority to take 
any particular action beyond advising the Building Inspector.
In this situation, as in Connelly, the Building Inspector clearly possesses the authority to 
make zoning decisions by himself. See OML 2019-71; OML 2015-93. On the other hand, if the 
statute required the Building Inspector to receive permission from a public body before acting, 
then the Building Inspector never had unilateral authority in the first place. See OML 2017-120. 
However, that is not the situation here. We find that the Building Inspector was empowered by 
the statute to take action without the approval of the Board of Selectmen or any other public 
body. The Building Inspector therefore had the necessary authority to act unilaterally. For this 
reason, the Committee is similar to the one considered in Connelly. See OML 2018-136.
II. The Committee was created informally and is not authorized by a statute or by-law.
In Connelly, the court noted that the selection committee at issue “was not created 
pursuant to any statute or by-law, but was appointed informally by [a single public official]. This 
factor alone sets the selection committee apart from other entities considered to be 
‘governmental bodies’ under the open meeting law, almost all of which are creatures of statute, 
ordinance, or by-law.” Connelly. 409 Mass, at 235.
Here, there is no statute or town by-law that created the Committee. Rather, the Town 
Administrator created the Committee informally in order to advise the Building Inspector. For 
this reason, the Committee is similar to the one considered in Connelly.
III. The Committee was created by a single government official, not a public body.
Finally, under Connelly, a committee must be appointed by a “government body” or be 
“otherwise constituted pursuant to statute, ordinance or by-law, or in some other official way to 
perform an assignment itself subject to the law,” in order to be subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
Connelly. 409 Mass, at 237-38. We find that the Committee here does not meet this requirement 
for the following reasons. In our previous determinations, a public body’s vote to create the 
group in question was a clear factor indicating creation of a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law. See OML 2018-21; OML 2017-118; OML 2017-36; OML 2016-102.
Here, the Board of Selectmen did not vote to create the Committee. The Town 
Administrator merely informed the Board of his idea to create the Committee. Indeed, the Town 
Administrator had already assembled the Committee members before even raising the idea with 
the Board of Selectmen. The Board members seemed to like the idea, but took no formal action 
to approve it. The Board did not direct the Town Administrator to create the Committee, nor was 
the Committee tasked with bringing any recommendations back to the Board. See OML 2015- 
93; OML 2014-56. OML 2018-62. Therefore, the Committee was not appointed by the Board of 
Selectmen. Furthermore, the Committee was also not created by either the Zoning Board of 
Appeals or the Planning Board because the Town Administrator informally asked a member of 
each of those Boards to join the Committee, which they individually and voluntarily agreed to.
3

===PAGE 4===
The Town Administrator, an individual government official, created the Committee to 
advise the incoming Building Inspector. Although the Connelly exception is generally applied in 
situations in which an individual government official creates a committee to advise that same 
individual, we find that all of the factors that the Supreme Judicial Court considered in Connelly. 
as discussed above, apply to this situation, where the Town Administrator created the Committee 
to advise another individual government official. Therefore, because the Committee was created 
by a single public official, albeit to advise a different public official, and not by any official act 
of a government body nor by statute or by-law, we find that the Committee fits within the 
Connelly exception and is not subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2017-38; OML 2016- 
33, OML 2014-56; OML 2012-65.3
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we conclude that the Committee was not a public body 
subject to the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, and we therefore find no violation of the 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions.
Sincerely,
Sarah Chase
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Joseph  Chaloux
Granby Zoning Enforcement Committee
3 The fact that two of the members of the Committee are also members of other public bodies does not change the 
character of the Committee. In Connelly, two School Committee members were part of the Superintendent’s 
advisory group, but that did not make the advisory group a public body. Connelly. 409 Mass, at 233.
4

===PAGE 5===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
5
