===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 20, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 198 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Erin Gibbons 
Chair, Wayland School Committee 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
 
Erin_Gibbons@waylandps.org 
  
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Gibbons: 
 
This office received a complaint from George Harris on October 10, 2023, alleging that 
the Wayland School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about August 4, 2023, 
and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated August 24.
1  The complaint 
alleges that minutes of the Committee’s meetings held on June 5 and June 20 insufficiently 
summarized the interviews of candidates to fill a vacancy on the Committee, in violation of the 
Open Meeting Law.  Mr. Harris further claims that the violations were intentional. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law and 
that the violations were intentional. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open 
Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response and the request for further review.  We also 
reviewed the original and amended minutes of the Committee’s June 5 and June 20 meetings. 
 
  
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows.  On June 5 and June 20, the Committee and the 
Wayland Select Board2 jointly interviewed candidates to fill a vacancy on the Committee.  The 
Committee’s original minutes of the June 5 meeting described the interviews as follows: 
 
The Committee and the Select Board agreed to hear from the four (4) candidates 
who were present and at a later time meet with Craig Gruber. There was discussion 
between the Committee and Select Board members with respect to how  to engage 
with each of the individuals in a fair and equitable process for selection. Each of 
the four candidates present provided an opening statement and shared his/her/their 
intent and qualifications to join the School Committee. The Committee and Select 
Board members interviewed the candidates by each asking a question. 
 
Similarly, the Committee’s original minutes of the June 20 meeting described the 
interviews as follows: 
 
Select Board Chair Whitney described the process for filling the vacancy and noted 
that one candidate, C. Gruber, was not available at  the previous meeting due to 
military service when each of the other four (4) potential appointees were 
interviewed. C. Gruber was asked to address the Committee and the Select Board.  
C. Gruber provided an opening statement addressing his intent and qualifications 
for joining the School Committee. The Committee  members and the Select Board 
proceeded to ask questions of C. Gruber as they did at the previous meeting with 
the other four (4) applicants. 
 
On August 23, the Committee approved amended minutes of the June 5 and June 20 
meetings, incorporating detail of what each candidate said during his or her interview. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the s
 ecrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  See OML 2023-56.3  Toward that end, public bodies are 
required to “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.”  
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); 940 CMR 29.11(1).  See also OML 2023-56.  The minutes must set forth 
“the date, time and place [of the meeting], the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a). 
 
 
2 On July 19 and July 31, George Harris filed complaints with the Select Board  on grounds similar to those upon 
which he relies in the instant complaint against the Committee.  However, he withdrew the July 19 complaint and 
declined to submit the July 31 complaint for review. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website,  https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for 
sub
stantial compliance with the accuracy requirement.  See OML 2023-56; OML 2016-105.  By 
substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so 
that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred.  See OML 2023-56; OML 2023-35; OML 2021-140.  A 
transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion 
presented.  See OML 2023-35; OML 2019-81; OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55.   
 
As the Committee acknowledges in its response to the complaint, the summaries of the 
candidate interviews in the original minutes were not sufficiently detailed.
4  Indeed, the minutes 
on that topic are devoid of any substance, other than each candidate’s name.  As such, they do 
not comply with the Open Meeting Law.  See, e.g., OML 2015-49 (minutes that simply listed 
times of interviews of town administrator candidates “entirely insufficient”; minutes must 
summarize substance of interviews); OML 2016-15 (minutes insufficient on subject of interview 
of fire chief candidate).  Most concerning, and as noted by the complainant, just last year the 
Committee was found to have violated the Open Meeting Law on the same grounds.  See OML 
2022-17 (Committee’s minutes of interviews of school superintendent candidates were 
insufficient; minutes noted that each candidate gave a statement and was asked questions but did 
not summarize substance of interviews).  Because the original minutes of the June 5 and June 20 
meetings fail to summarize the candidate interviews, we find that the Committee violated the 
Open Meeting Law. 
 
Next we consider whether the violation was, as the complainant urges, intentional. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body or a 
member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 29.02.  An 
intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the 
law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting 
Law.  Id.   Evidence of an intentional violation includes that a public body was previously 
advised by the Attorney General that the conduct violates the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 
2019-114 (violation intentional where Board was warned that it must include identity of parties 
about whom it is conducting strategy discussions); OML 2017-109 (repeated failure to respond 
to complaint within 14 days constitutes intentional violation); OML 2017-23 (repeated 
discussion of personnel matters in executive session constitutes intentional violation). 
 
In a determination from this office dated February 2, 2022, we explained to the 
Committee that its failure to include a summary of interviews conducted during open meetings 
violated the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2022-17.  The complaint giving rise to that decision 
concerned interviews of finalists for the position of School Superintendent.  At the time of our 
decision in that matter less than two years ago, the Committee’s violation was not deemed 
intentional because we found that it arose out of a sincere misunderstanding of the Committee’s 
obligations.  Id.  However, we cautioned the Committee at that time: “So that there is no 
uncertainty, we remind the Committee that the Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes 
include more than a statement that a public body held a discussion about a specified topic; the 
 
4 As noted above, upon receipt of the complaint in the instant matter, the Committee amended the minutes to include 
the required detail. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Law requires that the minutes summarize the substance of the public body’s discussion.”  Id.  In 
light of the Committee’s disregard of this explicit reminder, we find the violation intentional.   
 
In its response to the instant complaint, the Committee acknowledges the prior violation 
arising out of a failure to summarize interviews in its meeting minutes.  However, the Committee 
notes that only two current members of the Committee were members of the Committee at the 
time that we issued the determination in February 2022.  That only some of the current members 
of the Committee were members at the time of a prior similar violation does not shield the 
Committee from a finding of intentionality.  None of the current members needs to have been a 
member of the public body at the time of the prior similar violation for the public body to be 
charged with knowledge that the conduct violates the Open Meeting Law.  This too was made 
clear to the Committee in OML 2022-17.  In that determination, we noted violations in 2015, 
2016 and 2017, and reminded the Committee that, upon qualifying for office, Committee 
members are required to certify receipt of certain Open Meeting Law educational materials, 
including “[a] copy of each Open Meeting Law determination issued to that public body by the 
Attorney General within the last five years in which the Attorney General found a violation of 
[the Open Meeting Law].”  See 940 CMR 29.04; OML 2022-17.  Therefore, all current members 
should have been made aware of the guidance and warnings offered in OML 2022-27 when they 
joined the Committee.  See OML 2018-64 (provision that new members receive determinations 
of violations from the last five years “require[s] members to educate themselves about and be 
responsible for the body’s past violations.”) 
 
The Committee further argues that “there is no evidence that the Committee acted in an 
effort to conceal information from the public in this case.”  We agree and emphasize that we find 
this violation to be intentional based on the fact that the Committee had been previously advised 
that this conduct violated the law and not based on any finding that the Committee intended to 
deceive or conceal information from the public.5  See OML 2020-154.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by approving minutes of its June 5 and June 20 meetings, which fail to sufficiently summarize 
interviews of candidates for the Committee.  Furthermore, we find the violations intentional.  We 
acknowledge the Committee’s prompt corrective action to amend the meeting minutes after the 
complaint was filed, and decline to recommend a civil penalty at this time.  We specifically 
caution that a future finding of an intentional violation for failure to approve sufficient meeting 
minutes may result in a civil penalty of up to $1,000 per violation.  In addition, we order the 
Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law.   
 
 
 
5 “Evidence of an intentional violation of M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25 shall include, but not be limited to, that 
the public body or public body member: (a) acted with specific intent to violate the law; (b) acted with deliberate 
ignorance of the law's requirements; or (c) was previously informed by receipt of a decision from a court of 
competent jurisdiction or advised by the Attorney General, pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07 or 940 CMR 29.08, that the 
conduct violates M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25.”  940 CMR 29.02 (emphasis added). 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Wayland School Committee (via email:  school committee@waylandps.org)  
George Harris (via email ) 
Wayland Town Clerk (via email: treid@wayland.ma.us) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
