===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 1, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 145 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Elizabeth J. Kazinskas 
President, Gardner City Council  
ekazinskas@gardner-ma.gov  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear President Kazinskas: 
 
This office received two complaints from Scott Graves
1 alleging that the Gardner City 
Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The first 
complaint was filed with the Council on or about September 1, and, after an extension of time 
granted by our office, you responded on behalf of the Council by letter on September 29.2 The 
second complaint was filed with the Council on or about October 18, and you responded on 
behalf of the Council by letter on November 5.  
 
We understand the September 1 complaint to allege that 1) the Council met in executive 
session on August 2 for an improper purpose; and 2) the Chair’s announcement before entering 
executive session on August 2 was insufficient. We understand the October 18 complaint to 
allege that the Council 1) failed to meet to review the September 1 complaint and delegate 
authority to respond before responding to the complaint; and 2) deliberated outside of a meeting 
when a proposed response to the September 1 complaint was emailed to the full Council.
3  
 
We appreciate the parties’ patience while we reviewed these matters. Following our 
review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by improperly deliberating via 
email. We find that the Council did not otherwise violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In 
 
1 At the time the complaints were filed with the Council, Mr. Graves was a member of the Council.  
2 All dates are in 2021 unless otherwise stated. 
3 The Complainant raises additional allegations and issues that, even if true, would not constitute violations of the 
Open Meeting Law. Because the Division of Open Government’s statutory authority concerns compliance only with 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, we decline to review these additional allegations.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints; the Council’s 
responses; and the requests for further review. We also reviewed the notices and meeting packets 
for Council meetings held on August 2, September 7, and September 20, as well as video 
recordings of those same meetings. Additionally, we reviewed the September 16 email 
circulating the meeting packet for the Council’s September 20 meeting.4 Finally, we 
communicated a few times with Council President.5 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Council is an eleven-member public body; 
therefore, six members constitute a quorum. In July of 2021, the Complainant, in his capacity as 
a City Councilor, filed a lawsuit in Worcester Superior Court naming John Flick, in his capacity 
as City Solicitor for the City of Gardner, and the Commonwealth’s Supervisor of Records as 
defendants.
6 The lawsuit pertains to the City’s refusal to provide records that the Complainant 
requested as part of a public records request, and the Supervisor of Record’s determination that 
the records did not have to be produced. The September 1 complaint relates to an executive 
session held on August 2 during which the Council discussed the Complainant’s lawsuit.  
 
The August 2 Meeting  
 
At some point prior to August 2, the Mayor requested that the Council appropriate funds 
to hire outside counsel to defend against the Complainant’s lawsuit. The Mayor asked that the 
Council meet in executive session to discuss this funding request and related litigation matter. 
The Council posted notice for a meeting to be held on August 2 at 7:30 p.m. Included on the 
notice was the topic  
 
VIII. EXECUTIVE SESSION 
Entered under Exemption 3 of the Massachusetts Open Meeting Law: “To discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may 
have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body 
and the chair so declares.” M.G.L. c.30A, §21(a)(3) 
o For the purpose of discussing S. Graves et al. v. City of Gardner et al. 
 
During the August 2 meeting, when the Council reached the executive session 
topic, Council President Elizabeth Kazinskas, acting as chair, called on Councilor 
Aleksander Dernalowicz who made a motion to “move into executive session.” The 
motion was seconded by Councilor George Tyros. Thereafter President Kazinskas stated 
that the executive session would be held under “exemption 3 of the Massachusetts Open 
Meeting Law” stating that this allows a public body to enter executive session to “discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigation position of the public body and the chair 
so declares.” President Kazinskas then explained that the specific purpose for the 
 
4 Video recordings of the Council’s meetings may be found at https://www.gardner-ma.gov/637/3619/Video-On-
Demand. 
5 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
6 Graves v. Flick, Mass. Sup. Ct., No. 2185CV00791 (Worcester County, July 16, 2021). 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
executive session that evening was “to discuss S. Graves versus City of Gardner and 
other parties filed in the Massachusetts Superior Court.” Thereafter, President Kazinskas 
stated that “as required by Chapter 30A of the General Laws, I declare that discussing 
these matters in open session would not be appropriate as the discussion involves an item 
in active litigation against the City.” President Kazinskas then asked if there was any 
discussion regarding the motion to enter executive session. There was none. The Council 
then voted by roll call to enter executive session. Finally, President Kazinskas announced 
that the Council would reconvene in open session.  
 
The minutes of the August 2 executive session have not been released to the 
public yet, and we therefore do not recount their content in detail here. However, we note 
that the Council was provided with background information regarding the Complainant’s 
lawsuit. The Council also discussed conflicts of interest within the City’s law department 
with respect to the Complainant’s lawsuit and the request to hire outside counsel, 
including the cost of hiring outside counsel and the request to appropriate funds.  
 
After adjourning executive session, the Council reconvened in open session and 
voted to transfer “$15,000.00[] from [the] Mayor’s Unclassified Termination Leave 
Account to [the] Mayor’s Unclassified S. Graves versus City Et Al Lawsuit Account.” 
 
The Response to the September 1 Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint  
 
The Council posted notice for a meeting to be held on September 7 at 7:30 p.m. 
Included on the notice was the topic “An Open Meeting Law Complaint filed by 
Councillor Scott Joseph Graves.” During the September 7 meeting, the Council 
determined that it needed additional time to respond to the September 1 complaint and 
voted to refer the matter to the law department to request an extension of time from our 
office.   
 
At some point between the September 7 meeting and September 16, President 
Kazinskas drafted a proposed response to the September 1 complaint. President 
Kazinskas submitted the proposed response to the City Clerk for inclusion in the meeting 
packet for the Council’s upcoming September 20 meeting. On September 16 the meeting 
packet was posted online. That same day the City Clerk emailed a link to the meeting 
packet to the full Council. Included on page 418 of the meeting packet was President 
Kazinskas’ proposed response to the September 1 Open Meeting Law complaint.  
 
The Council posted notice for a meeting to be held on September 20 at 7:30 p.m. 
Included on the notice was the topic “An Open Meeting Law Complaint filed by 
Councillor Scott Joseph Graves (In the City Council and Referred to Law Department to 
request an extension 9/7/2021).” During the September 20 meeting, President Kazinskas 
introduced the Open Meeting Law complaint topic and then recognized Councilor Tyros. 
Councilor Tyros moved “to approve the proposed response.” The motion was seconded 
by Councilor Dernalowicz. President Kazinskas then asked for discussion on the motion. 
The Complainant announced that he would abstain. Thereafter, Councilor James Boone 
spoke regarding the Complainant’s Superior Court lawsuit. There was no further 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
discussion and the Council voted in favor of the motion to approve the proposed 
response. Thereafter, on September 29, the Council sent its response to the Complainant, 
copying our office.  
  
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Council Met in Executive Session on August 2 for a Proper Purpose and the 
Announcement Before Entering Executive Session Was Sufficient. 
 
Executive Session Purpose 3 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions allowing a public body to convene behind closed doors in 
executive session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). One permissible reason to convene in executive 
session is “to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body 
and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”). The public body invoking 
Purpose 3 must have a bargaining or litigating position to protect and must declare in open 
session that having the discussion in open session may have a detrimental effect on that position. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3); OML 2011-47.
7 Under Purpose 3, a public body has a litigating 
position to protect if there is pending litigation in which the public body has a litigating position, 
or if litigation is clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. See OML 
2020-53.  
The Complainant alleges that the Council did not have  a litigating position with respect to 
his lawsuit because the City, not the City Council, was a party to the lawsuit. Although we 
recognize that the Complainant’s lawsuit raises some peculiarities with respect to the Council’s 
role in the litigation, we have found that public bodies responsible for appropriating funds that do 
not otherwise have a litigating position may meet in executive session to consider appropriation 
of litigation expenses. See OML 2011-47, citing Filippone v. Mayor of Newton, 392 Mass. 633, 
625 (1984) (holding that a finance committee could enter executive to consider appropriation of 
litigation expenses where the mayor was the named party). We find that the Council properly 
met in executive session under Purpose 3.    
 
The Announc
ement Before Entering Executive Session 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that before entering executive session the chair must 
“state the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called [and] . . . shall publicly 
announce whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.” 
G.L. c. 30 A, § 21(b)(3), (4). As noted above, the Law requires that additional statements be 
made by the chair before entering executive session for specific purposes, such as Purpose 3 
which requires the chair to declare that “an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining or litigating position of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). 
 
7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
  
 The complaint alleges that President Kazinskas’ a nnouncement before entering executive 
session was insufficient, in part because she did not state that holding the discussion in open 
session may have a detrimental effect on the Council’s litigating position. Although the Open 
Meeting Law requires that, before entering executive session under Purpose 3, the chair declare 
that holding the discussion in “an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining 
or litigating position of the public body,” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3), the Law does not mandate that 
the chair recite the exact language of the statute. See OML 2020-108. Here, when reviewed in its 
entirety, we find President Kazinskas’ announcement sufficient to comply with the Law where 
she read aloud the Purpose 3 statutory language, identified the specific litigation matter to be 
discussed, and then stated “as required by Chapter 30A of the General Laws, I declare that 
discussing these matters in open session would not be appropriate as the discussion involves an 
item in active litigation against the City.”   
 
II. The Council Met to Review the September 1 Open Meeting Law Complaint Prior to 
Responding to the Complaint; However, the Council Improperly Deliberated When a 
Proposed Response Was Circulated to the Full Council Via Email. 
 
Unless an extension of time has been granted by this office, within 14 business days of 
rec
eipt of a complaint, the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take 
remedial action, if appropriate; send to the complainant a response and a description of any 
remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a 
description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). The public 
body may review a complaint during a meeting and refer the complaint to an individual to 
respond, or an individual may draft a response to the complaint in advance of a meeting for the 
public body to approve during a meeting, but the public body may not remove itself entirely 
from the process. See OML 2020-164; OML 2017-197. The Open Meeting Law does not require 
a public body to engage in a substantive discussion of the merits of the complaint. See OML 
2020-38; OML 2018-134; OML 2017-148 (“That the Board may have chosen to refer the 
complaint rather than discuss its substance is the Board’s prerogative.”).  
 
As discussed in the previous section, meetings of a public body must be open to members 
of the
 public unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21. Additionally, 
meetings of a public body must be properly noticed. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b). A “meeting” is 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 
‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the 
distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion 
of a member is expressed.” Id. Email attachments are considered along with the body of an email 
when determining whether a public body member has expressed an opinion. See OML 2019-75; 
OML 2014-152; Boelter v. Bd. of Selectmen of Wayland, 479 Mass. 233, 239-43 (2018). A one-
way communication from one public body member to a quorum on business within a body’s 
jurisdiction is deliberation, even if no other members respond. See OML 2020-136; OML 2019-
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
144. For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of 
a public body. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
 
 To begin, we find that the Council met to review the September 1  Op
 en Meeting Law 
complaint prior to formally responding to the complaint. The Council met on September 20, 
voted to approve President Kazinskas’ proposed response, and on September 29 formally sent 
the response to the Complainant, copying our office. That the Council did not discuss the 
complaint in depth did not violate the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2020-38; OML 2018-134; 
OML 2017-148.   
 
 Ne
xt, although we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law with 
respect to the procedures for responding to an Open Meeting Law complaint, we find that the 
Council improperly deliberated regarding its response to the September 1 complaint when the 
proposed response was circulated to the full Council via email as part of the meeting packet for 
the Council’s September 20 meeting. The proposed response was drafted by President Kazinskas 
and therefore necessarily contained her opinions, as such the distribution of the proposed 
response did not fall within the exception to the definition of “deliberation” for the distribution 
of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Although it is 
clear that certain administrative tasks are excluded from the definition of “deliberation,” that 
exception includes a strong caveat: such administrative communications are permissible 
“provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2013-5.
8  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 The Supreme Judicial Court suggested in dicta that a public body may avoid violating the Open Meeting Law if, 
when circulating documents that contain public body members’ opinions outside of an open meeting, the public 
body contemporaneously provides the documents to the public by, for example, posting the documents on a website. 
Boelter, 479 Mass. 233, 243-44 (2018). Those facts were not before the Court, and furthermore, the unambiguous 
language of the statute clearly prohibits distribution among a quorum of a public body of reports or document that 
may be discussed at a meeting if those reports or documents express the opinions of a public body member. See  G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18 (“‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or 
distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a 
meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.”) (emphasis added). 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
improperly deliberating via email. We find that the Council did not otherwise violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged. We order the Council’s immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, and caution that a future similar violation may be considered evidence of an 
intentional violation of the Law. Because the proposed response was previously released to the 
public on September 16 when the September 20 meeting packet was posted online, we order no 
further remedial action.  
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Scott Graves (via email: ) 
John M. Flick, Esq., City of Gardner Law Department (via email: 
jflick@flicklawgroup.com) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
