===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
       
       November 3, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 184  
 
 
Devan Braun, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By email only: dbraun@k-plaw.com 
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Braun: 
 
This office received a complaint from Michael Corsetti on December 22, 2022, alleging 
that the Manchester-By-The-Sea Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the 
Commission on or about November 14, 2022, and you responded, on behalf of the Commission, 
by letter dated December 15, 2022, following an extension of time granted by this office.  The 
complaint alleges that the Commission deliberated during an unnoticed site inspection at 10 Old 
Wenham Way on October 22, 2022.  
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged.  
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Commission’s response 
to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We also 
reviewed the notices and minutes of Commission meetings held on October 18, 2022, October 
25, 2022, and November 2, 2022.   
  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Commission is a seven-member public body; thus, four 
members constitute a quorum. 
 
During a meeting held on October 18, 2022, the Commission discussed a Notice of Intent 
to widen and pave a private drive filed by the complainant for 10 Old Wenham Way.  The 
Commission reviewed the history of the project which dated back to August 2019.  The 
Commission explained that the initial application was denied, and the complainant thereafter 
appealed to the Department of Environmental Protection.  The Department of Environmental 
Protection issued a superseding order of conditions requiring the complainant to obtain any 
permits or approvals required under state or local regulations.  According to the Commission, the 
complainant failed to obtain local approval under the Wetlands Bylaw which prompted a site 
visit by the Conservation Administrator in July 2022.  The Conversation Administrator 
summarized her visit to the property and suggested that the driveway was “well done” and 
“everything looked stable.”  The Commission requested additional information from the 
complainant and scheduled a site visit for October 22, 2022.     
 
On October 22, 2022, five Commission members and the Conversation Administrator 
attended a site visit at 10 Old Wenham Way, the complainant’s property.  Any discussions that 
actually occurred during the on-site inspection are in dispute.  The Commission asserts that 
members were spread out along the driveway and only gathered as a quorum “at the beginning of 
the site visit and as they were leaving.”  The Commission denies that members discussed or 
agreed to reject the application and Chair Steve Gang denies that he made any statements about 
“straw wattles” or not caring that he was on private property abutting 10 Old Wenham Way. 
 
The Commission held a meeting on October 25, 2022, and continued to discuss a Notice 
of Intent to widen and pave a private drive at 10 Old Wenham Way, as well as new information 
about the project submitted by the complainant.  At the conclusion of the discussion on this 
application, the Commission closed the public hearing but did not reach a decision on the matter.  
Rather, the Commission unanimously voted to “schedule an additional meeting to discuss Orders 
of Conditions and discuss 10 Old Wenham Way findings.” 
 
During a meeting held on November 2, 2022, the Commission discussed whether to 
approve the Notice of Intent for 10 Old Wenham Way.  Commission members expressed their 
concerns that the applicant was “unwilling to . . . provide answers to questions the Commission 
had on an Alternatives Analysis and on delineation of Wetland Resources,” as well as the 
project’s impact on vernal pools and wetland areas.  Ultimately, the Commission unanimously 
voted to deny “the project under the local by-law.”  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Commission of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, unless an executive session is convened.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
21(a).  The Open Meeting Law defines “meeting” as “a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction; provided however, ‘meeting’ shall not 
include: (a) an on-site inspection of a project or program, so long as the members do not 
deliberate...”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  “Deliberation” is defined as “an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not 
include the distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents 
that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For 
the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the member of the 
public body.  Id. 
 
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Commission deliberated during an on-site 
inspection at Old Wenham Way on October 22, 2022.  Indeed, a quorum of the Commission 
attended the on-site inspection without posting notice of a meeting, relying on the exception to 
the definition of “meeting” for on-site inspections.  Under that exception, it shall not be 
considered a “meeting” of a public body where a quorum attends an on-site inspection “so long 
as the members do not deliberate.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (emphasis added).  Although the 
Commission admits that during the on-site inspection it sought clarification on certain aspects of 
the project, it is not clear from the evidence before us whether a quorum of the Commission was 
present when such discussions occurred.  Moreover, we acknowledge the letter from the abutter 
who attended a portion of the site visit on October 22, 2022, and his statements that the 
Commission answered some of his questions and spoke “amongst themselves.”  Nevertheless, a 
quorum of one public body may be in the same place at the same time without violating the Open 
Meeting Law, provided they do not deliberate.  See OML 2015-38.  Following our review, we 
find insufficient evidence to formally conclude that the Commission deliberated during the on-
site inspection at Old Wenham Way.  The versions of events provided by both the complainant 
and the Commission are contradictory, and the information from the abutter does not add clarity; 
thus, we cannot arrive at a formal finding of the actual discussions that occurred.  Accordingly, 
we are constrained to find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  See 
OML 2018-50.   
 
However, we take seriously the allegations raised by the complaint, and take this 
opportunity to remind the Commission that in order to conduct an on-site inspection in 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, the Commission has three options: (1) post notice of 
the inspection as a “meeting,” provided only if the property was accessible to everyone, 
including members of the public; (2) visit the property as individuals or in groups that constitute 
less than a quorum so as to avoid deliberation among a quorum; or (3) visit the property as a 
quorum, but refrain from asking any questions of the property owner or otherwise discussing any 
matters within the Commission’s jurisdiction until the Commission convenes in a properly 
noticed meeting.  See OML 2018-57; OML 2017-44.  We understand that this third option may 
be difficult or impractical to follow.  However, because the on-site inspection exception to the 
definition of “meeting” found in G.L. c. 30A, § 18 requires that there be no deliberation, these 
are the only options available to public bodies wishing to conduct such inspections. 
  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Commission.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.  
 
       Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:   Michael Corsetti – By email only:  
Manchester-By-The-Sea Conservation Commission c/o Chris Bertoni, Conservation 
Administrator – By email only: bertonic@manchester.ma.us 
 Manchester-By-The-Sea Town Clerk – By email only: townclerk@manchester.ma.us 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
