===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 1, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 89 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Lyndon Moors 
Chair, Lanesborough Finance Committee 
lmoors@lanesborough-ma.gov 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Moors: 
 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Wentworth on March 13, 2025,
1 alleging 
that the Lanesborough Finance Committee (the “Committee”), and specifically Committee 
member Ronald Tinkham, violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about January 7, and you responded on 
behalf of the Committee by letter dated March 4. The complaint relates to the Committee’s 
January 6 meeting and alleges that Mr. Tinkham misused the public comment portion of the 
meeting, when, as a member of the Committee, he used that portion of the meeting to make a 
comment about a matter that had not been included on the meeting notice.  
 
Following our review, we find that Mr. Tinkham and the Committee did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting 
Law complaint, the Committee’s response, the request for further review, the notice for the 
Committee’s January 6 meeting, and a video recording of the January 6 meeting.
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On January 2 the Committee posted notice for a 
meeting to be held on January 6. The meeting notice included several topics, including “Public 
Comment,” but did not include a topic related to an upcoming meeting the Chair of the 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the Committee’s January 6 meeting may be found at  
http://96.39.48.70:10264/CablecastPublicSite/show/510?site=1.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Committee, Lyndon Moors,3 and a member of the Committee, David Parks, would have with 
representatives of the Mount Greylock Regional School Committee and the Williamstown 
Finance Committee.  
 
The Committee’s January 6 meeting was held as scheduled. Toward the end of the 
meeting, Chair Moors turned to public comment and asked if there was anyone from the public 
who wished to speak. After a brief silence, Mr. Tinkham raised his hand and indicated that he 
had something to say related to a matter that was not on the meeting notice. Another member of 
the Committee, Regina DiLego, noted that Mr. Tinkham was a member of the Committee not a 
member of the public. Thereafter, Chair Moors asked Mr. Tinkham if he was speaking as a 
member of the public, to which Mr. Tinkham responded “okay.” Mr. Tinkham then noted an 
upcoming meeting that Chair Moors and Mr. Parks were to have with the Williamstown Finance 
Committee regarding the regional school district’s budget. Mr. Tinkham explained, for the 
benefit of Chair Moors and Mr. Parks, that Williamstown had put aside tuition money it had 
received under a school choice program, noting that by doing so Williamstown had effectively 
created a $1.6 million stabilization fund. When Mr. Tinkham was done, Ms. DiLego warned that 
all Mr. Tinkham could do was comment and that there could be no further discussion. Chair 
Moors agreed, thanked Mr. Tinkham for his comment, and moved on to the next topic.       
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, “[e]
 xcept in an emergency, . . . a public body shall 
post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Meeting notices must include, among other things, a list of the topics that the chair, and any 
other individual authorized to create the notice, reasonably anticipates 48 hours (excluding 
weekends and legal holidays) in advance of the meeting will be discussed at the meeting. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2022-206; OML 2020-152.4 A public body may discuss a truly 
unanticipated topic at a meeting even without having included it on the meeting notice; however, 
the Attorney General strongly recommends, if the topic can wait, that public bodies table 
discussion of unanticipated topics that might be of significant interest to the public in order to 
include those topics on a notice for a future meeting. See OML 2019-131; OML 2018-119.  
 
The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow for a public comment 
period.
5 Instead, the Law provides that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body 
without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.” G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(g). As such, the Law gives discretion to the chair of a public body to decide who 
may speak or otherwise participate at a meeting. See, e.g., OML 2020-77; OML 2017-154; OML 
2012-59.  
 
 Th
e complaint alleges that Mr. Tinkham violated the Open Meeting Law when he, as a 
member of the Committee, made a comment during the portion of the meeting reserved for 
public comment. Although it may be that the public comment portion of the meeting was 
 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 Although the Open Meeting Law does not require public comment, the Attorney General encourages public bodies 
to provide for as much public participation as circumstances permit. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
intended for the Committee to hear comments from the public and not from fellow Committee 
members, the fact that Mr. Tinkham made a comment during this portion of the meeting, in and 
of itself, does not violate the Open Meeting Law. As explained above, it was within Chair 
Moors’ discretion to allow Mr. Tinkham to speak during the meeting. 
 
Furthermore, we find that Mr. Tinkham’s comment did not otherwise violate the Open 
Meeting Law. As explained above, the Law requires that meeting notices include a list of the 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting. Although the 
complaint alleges that the “misuse” of public comment was “‘intentional’ . . . to avoid placing 
the topic on the committee agenda,” the Complainant has not asserted that Chair Moors 
anticipated that Mr. Tinkham would make a comment, nor presented any evidence to support 
such an assertion. Indeed, a review of the video recording of the meeting, suggests that Mr. 
Tinkham’s comment was not anticipated. As such, we find that neither the Committee nor Mr. 
Tinkham violated the Open Meeting Law when Mr. Tinkham made his comment during the 
January 6 meeting. However, to be clear, had the subject matter of Mr. Tinhkam’s comment been 
reasonably anticipated 48 hours or more prior to the meeting, simply asserting that he was 
making the comment as a member of the public and not as a member of the Committee would 
not have shielded the Committee or Mr. Tinkham from violating the Open Meeting Law.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that Mr. Tinkham and the Committee did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this 
determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may 
be pending with the Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 
963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Gina Dario, Town Administrator (via email: gdario@lanesborough-ma.gov) 
Ruth Knysh, Lanesborough Town Clerk (via email: rknysh@lanesborough-ma.gov)  
Stephen Wentworth (via email: ) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
