===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 25, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 148 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Brian Riley, Esq. 
KP Law 
briley@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
This office received a complaint from Edward McGovern on March 14, 2023, alleging 
that the Seekonk Board of Assessors (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on January 17, 2023, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated February 3, 2023.1 The complaint alleges that 
the Board approved two payment-in-lieu-of-taxation (“PILOT”) agreements during its December 
15, 2022, meeting despite the matters not being included on the notice for the Board’s meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged.  
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed the notice for the 
Board’s December 15 meeting and corresponded by email with counsel for the Board. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows.  In 2006, the Board entered into PILOT agreements with the 
Seekonk Housing Authority and the City of Attleboro; the PILOT agreements concern a 
wastewater treatment facility.  Every year since, the Board has executed special warrants to 
approve the two PILOT agreements.  The Board typically approves all actual tax bills and 
PILOT agreements in December of each year. 
The Town Assessor prepares meeting notices for meetings of the Board and sends the 
draft notices to the Chair approximately five days in advance of each meeting for approval 
before posting.  The Board, via the Town Assessor, posted notice for a meeting to take place on 
December 15; the notice did not include approval of the PILOT.  On December 14, the day 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
before the Board’s meeting, the Town Assessor and Treasurer realized that approval of the 
PILOT agreements had not been included on the notice for the December 15 meeting.  The 
Board convened its meeting on December 15 as scheduled.  During the meeting the Board 
approved the two PILOT agreements. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, “[e]xcept in an emergency, . . . a public body shall 
post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, 
Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be printed in a legible, 
easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as 
a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Id.  The list of topics 
shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35; OML 2013-39.
2   
The Open Meeting Law does not require the chair of a public body to anticipate the 
course of deliberation or the outcome of any discussion, but rather to list those topics that they 
reasonably anticipate will be discussed.  See OML 2016-130; OML 2011- 36; OML 2011-23; 
OML 2011-13.  Where the chair delegates to another person responsibility for creating the 
meeting notice, we look to what that person anticipates will be discussed.  See OML 2020-87; 
OML 2020-80; OML 2015-190.  Although the chair may delegate the task of drafting meeting 
notices to another individual, such as an employee, the chair and the public body remain 
responsible for complying with the Open Meeting Law; therefore, the meeting notice must 
include all topics that the chair as well as all topics that the person tasked with creating the 
meeting notice reasonably anticipate for discussion.  See OML 2020-152; OML 2015-190.  A 
public body may discuss topics at a meeting that were not reasonably anticipated and not 
included on the meeting notice, although the Attorney General strongly recommends that public 
bodies, as a matter of best practice, table discussion of topics that might be of significant interest 
to the public in order to include such topics in a meeting notice for a subsequent 
meeting.  See OML 2019-131; OML 2018-119. 
Furthermore, we have explained that the requirement in the Open Meeting Law that 
meeting notices include a listing of topics that the chair “reasonably anticipates” will be 
discussed at the meeting necessarily requires the person creating the meeting notice to make 
some reasonable efforts to ascertain what the public body will discuss at a meeting and include 
sufficient detail about those topics on the notice for the meeting.  To find otherwise would render 
meaningless the requirement that meeting notices include a list of the topics that are 
“reasonably” anticipated for discussion.  See OML 2021-201; OML 2021-146; 2021-121. 
We first address the complaint’s assertion that there was no “emergency” that allowed the 
Board to approve the PILOT agreements without providing public notice 48 hours in advance of 
the meeting.  The Law defines an emergency as “a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or 
set of circumstances demanding immediate action.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18; 940 CMR 29.02.  “In an 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
emergency, a public body shall post notice as soon as reasonably possible prior to such meeting."
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Emergency meetings are reserved for circumstances that are unanticipated
and require an immediate response, that is, action that could not wait for notice of a meeting to
be posted 48 hours in advance. See OMIL 2021-119; OML 2017-131; OML 2016-70; OML
2011-45. Here, however, the Board does not assert that approval of the PILOT agreements
constituted an emergency, and there is no dispute that notice for the meeting was timely posted.
The only question is whether approval of the PILOT agreements was a reasonably anticipated
topic, or whether the topic was not reasonably anticipated such that the Board was permitted to
discuss the topic despite it not being listed on the meeting notice.
Here, we credit the Board's explanation that neither the Chair, the Town Assessor, nor
the Treasurer thought about the PILOT agreement approvals until December 14, the day prior to
the Board's meeting. Nonetheless, where the PILOT agreements had been approved every
December for the past 15 years, and the December 15 meeting was the Board's only scheduled
meeting before the end of the year, we find that approval of the PILOT agreements was a
"reasonably" anticipated topic for the Board's December 15 meeting and should have been
included on the meeting notice. Therefore, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it
approved the agreements during its December 15 meeting.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law
when it approved the two PILOT agreements despite not including that topic on the notice for its
December 15 meeting. We order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open
Meeting Law and caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar violation in
the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. The Board
asserts, and the complainant does not dispute, that approval of the PILOT agreements was a
routine administrative task that the Board had undertaken for the past 15 years and the
agreements were neither controversial nor of particular public interest; therefore, we order no
further remedial action.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Сакё Benedon
Carrie Benedon
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC.
Edward McGovern (via e-mail:
Seekonk Board of Assessors (via e-mail: Icordeiro@seekonk-ma.gov)
Seekonk Town Clerk (via e-mail: fcraig@seekonk-ma.gov)
3
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 