===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 28,2014 
OML 2014-42 
Regina Tate, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane LLP 
Crown Colony Plaza 
300 Crown Colony Drive 
Suite 410 
Quincy, MA 02169 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Tate: 
This office reviewed two complaints alleging that the Wayland School Committee (the 
Committee) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The first complaint, by 
George Harris, was originally filed with the Committee on or about June 27, 2013, and a request 
for further review of this complaint was filed with our office on September 5, 2013. The second 
complaint, by Donna Bouchard, was originally filed with the Committee on or about July 1, 
2013, and a request for further review of this complaint was filed with our office on September 
11, 2013. You responded to both complaints on behalf of the Committee by letters dated July 
22, 2013.1 
Both complaints allege that, on June 3, 2013, the Committee entered into executive 
session to comply with G.L. c. 214, § IB, during the discussion of a personnel matter. The 
complaints allege that the Committee entered executive session under an improper purpose, that 
the Committee followed improper procedure in convening the executive session, and that the 
agenda item, "Personnel Matter," included in the meeting notice was insufficiently specific. 
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by meeting in executive 
session on June 3, 2013 for an improper purpose, by utilizing improper procedure to convene the 
executive session, and by failing to include sufficient detail in the notice for this executive 
session meeting. We find that the last violation was intentional. In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed the June 27, 2013 and July 1, 2013 complaints filed with the Committee; the 
' For the purpose of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
Committee's July 22, 2013 response; the September 5, 2013 and September 11, 2013 complaints 
filed with our office; a memorandum of law accompanying Mr. Harris' complaint; the minutes of 
the Committee's June 3, 2013 open session meeting; the redacted minutes of the Committee's 
June 3, 2013 executive session meeting; a letter from Sullivan, Rogers & Company, LLC, a 
certified public accounting firm, to the Town of Wayland; a fraud examination report compiled 
by Daniel M. Sullivan of Sullivan, Rogers & Company, LLC; a MetroWest Daily News article 
headlined "Wayland school employee fired for unauthorized account access," dated September 
23, 2013; a letter from Donna Bouchard, dated October 4, 2013; and the agenda for the June 3, 
2013 meeting. Additionally, we spoke by telephone with Mr. Harris, Ms. Bouchard, Attorney 
Tate, Committee Chair Barbara Fletcher, and Superintendent of Schools Paul Stein in September 
and October of 2013. 
FACTS 
Because our review of the material listed above included executive session minutes that 
remain confidential, we are unable to provide a full recitation of the facts. The publicly available 
facts are as follows: 
The Committee timely posted notice for its June 3, 2013 meeting. The agenda indicated 
that the Committee would meet in an executive session on a variety of topics, including "(b) 
Personnel Matter" without further explanation. During the meeting, the chair stated that she 
would entertain a motion to enter executive session. Another member of the Committee moved 
to enter executive session "for section 3 OA/21(a)(7) which is to comply with another law, which 
is Massachusetts General Law Chapter 214, Section IB, which is the right of privacy. This is a 
personnel matter." The Committee so moved and, after a roll call vote, entered an executive 
session. 
The portion of the executive session at issue here concerned an employee who was 
accused of accessing accounting software without proper authorization. The Superintendent later 
terminated the employee. The Committee and the Superintendent assert that power to terminate 
employees of the School District rests with the Superintendent. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be conducted in an open 
session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20-21. Public bodies may enter a closed, 
executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, provided that 
the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for the executive session, 
"stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the 
executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). The exceptions to the general rule that 
meetings of a public body shall be open are narrowly construed. See McRea v. Flaherty. 71 
Mass. App. Ct. 637, 641 (2008). The public body bears the burden of demonstrating 
applicability of the relevant exception as the reason for the executive session. See District 
Attorney for the N. Dist. v. School Comm. of Wayland. 455 Mass. 561, 566 (2009). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Additionally, the Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice 48 hours 
prior to a meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies must list topics for discussion 
with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body's discussion. OML 2011 -44.2 Executive session topics must include as much 
detail as possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. 
District Attorney for N. Dist. 455 Mass. at 567 ("[a] precise statement of the reason for 
convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only 
notification given to the public that the school committee would conduct business in private, and 
the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper."); see 
G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 20(b), 21(b)(3); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
1. The Board improperly entered executive session under Purpose 7 because the 
issue discussed was not protected by the statutory right to privacy. 
One of the ten permissible reasons for executive session is "[t]o comply with, or act 
under the authority of, any general or special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements." 
G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(a)(7) (Purpose 7). A public body entering executive session under Purpose 7 
must state the specific law that requires the public body to keep its deliberations confidential. 
See District Attorney for N. Dist., 455 Mass. at 569 (explaining proper use of Purpose 7 to enter 
executive session requires enumeration of enabling law). 
At its June 3, 2013 meeting, the Committee voted to enter into executive session under 
Purpose 7 "to comply with another law, M.G.L. Chapter 214(1) (b), which relates to a person's 
right to privacy . . .The right to privacy embodied in G.L. c. 214, § IB proscribes the 
"disclosure of facts about an individual that are of a highly personal or intimate nature when 
there exists no legitimate, countervailing interest." Bratt v. International Business Machs. Corp.. 
392 Mass. 508, 518 (1984); see also Howell v. Enterprise Publ. Co.. 72 Mass. App. Ct. 739, 749 
(2008), overturned on other grounds, 455 Mass. 641 (2010). The subject of the executive session 
at issue here was an investigation concerning unauthorized access to the Town's accounting 
software by an employee. The Committee's unwillingness to subject the reputation of the 
employee to public scrutiny prior to any public discussion of the actions of the employee served 
as its justification for invoking the individual's statutory right to privacy. 
The Committee's invocation of the statutory right to privacy to convene this executive 
session was in error. "[I]n order to be an actionable invasion of privacy, the facts disclosed 
about a person must be of no legitimate public concern." Howell. 72 Mass. App. Ct. at 749. The 
discussions that took place during the executive session involved the implications of 
unauthorized access to municipal accounting software by a public employee and the risk of — if 
not the actual ~ unauthorized shifting and paying out of public funds. Such a discussion of the 
disposition of public monies is a matter of legitimate public concern. See id at 750; George W. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found in the Attorney General's 
website., www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Prescott Publ. Co. v. Register of Probate for Norfolk County, 395 Mass. 274, 279 (1985) 
(legitimate public interest in knowing that public servants perform duties efficiently and 
lawfully). Furthermore, no evidence demonstrates that the conversation turned to issues of a 
highly personal or intimate nature. Therefore, the statutory right to privacy was not a valid 
justification for entering executive session because a legitimate, countervailing public interest 
existed.3 
Notwithstanding the inapplicability of Purpose 7, the discussion was of the sort that may 
be held behind closed-doors. If the Committee wished to discuss the matter in private to protect 
the employee's reputation, it could have done so by citing the executive session purpose allowing 
discussion of "reputation, character . . . discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges 
brought against, a public employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) 
(Purpose I).4 The Committee's stated intent—to protect the reputation of the individual who 
was the subject of the executive session discussion—falls squarely within the policy underlying 
executive session Purpose 1. See OML 2013-20. When relying on executive session Purpose 1, 
the Open Meeting Law does require that the individual being discussed be afforded certain 
procedural protections. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). For example, the individual must be 
notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The individual must also be afforded the right to be present during 
deliberations that involve that individual, the right to speak on his or her own behalf, the right to 
have counsel present, and the right to have an independent record of the meeting made at the 
individual's own expense. Id. Because the Committee did not afford the employee these rights, 
the executive session discussion of the "personnel matter" was not properly held under this 
purpose either.5 See id. 
3 In support of its position, the Committee cites OML 2013-23, in which a public body entered executive session to 
discuss recouping a vacation overpayment to a deceased employee. In the notice and at the meeting at issue in that 
complaint, the public body cited as the basis for its executive session Purpose 3, "[t]o discuss strategy with 
respect... to litigation . . .." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). After an Open Meeting Law complaint was filed, the public 
body revised its meeting notice to add additional executive session purposes that it believed justified the executive 
session, including Purpose 7 to comply with G.L. c. 214, § IB. We acknowledge that dicta in that decision 
suggested the Purpose 7 justification may have been appropriate, and therefore do not find the Committee's 
violation in this respect to be intentional. We note, however, that our finding in OML 2013-23 that the executive 
session was proper was based entirely on the purpose cited by the public body at the time the executive session 
occurred - Purpose 3. 
4 Our discussion of Purpose 1 as an alternative for entering executive session is not to the exclusion of any other 
purpose the Committee may have utilized, though we find it an appropriate choice. We address the suitability of 
Purpose 1 as an alternative only because both complaints argued that the Committee should have notified the 
individual who was the subject of the executive session discussion and afforded him the procedural protections set 
forth in Purpose 1. 
5 Furthermore, the Committee argues that Purpose 1 was inapplicable because the sole authority to terminate the 
employee's tenure lay with the Superintendent and the Committee could take no action. The Committee therefore 
characterizes the Superintendent's report on the employee's actions as an "update" and not a "discussion" under 
Purpose 1. The plain language of Purpose 1 makes no reference to whether the public body has the power to act 
upon the complaint or charges laid against a public employee. The nature of the deliberation—not the power of the 
public body—governs the applicability of this executive session purpose. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
Accordingly, we order, as a remedial measure, the public release of the portion of the 
June 3, 2013 executive session minutes related to the "Personnel Matter" as well as any 
documents used by the Committee during that executive session discussion. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(f) (minutes of an executive session may be withheld from disclosure to the public as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of an executive session, provided that the executive 
session was held in compliance with the Open Meeting Law); OML 2014-30; OML 2014-17. 
Prior to such release, the Committee shall give 7 days written notice to the subject of the 
executive session that the release of the minutes is imminent. 
2. The Committee Improperly Entered Executive Session When a Member Other 
Than the Chair Stated the Purpose for the Executive Session. 
Mr. Harris' complaint also alleges that the Committee failed to follow proper procedure 
to enter into executive session because a member of the Committee other than the Chair stated 
with insufficient precision the purpose for the executive session. The Open Meeting Law 
specifically states that the Chair shall state the purpose for the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(b)(3); OML 2013-170. Although the Chair did not herself state the purpose for the 
executive session, a member of the Committee did state the purpose prior to the vote to enter into 
executive session, and the statement contained sufficient detail. We therefore find that the 
Committee relayed the necessary information to enter executive session but did not fully comply 
with the procedural requirements for entering into executive session. This procedural deficiency 
was a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
3. The Topic "Personnel Matter" in the Committee's Posted Notice was 
Tnsufficientlv Specific. 
Mr. Harris' complaint also alleges that the executive session topic listed in the meeting 
notice lacked sufficient specificity. The agenda item "Personnel Matter" was the only posted 
notice for the portion of the executive session in question. As we stated in a prior determination 
directed to the Committee, "personnel" is not a sufficiently specific statement of the purpose for 
an executive session. OML 2011-9. At a minimum, the Committee should have stated in its 
notice the statutory purpose that formed the basis for the executive session it anticipated 48 hours 
in advance. Doing so would have provided the public with more information about the 
Committee's intended discussion without compromising the purpose for the executive session. 
See OML 2013-141. We therefore find the Committee's notice was insufficiently specific to 
comply with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. 
Furthermore, the Committee was advised by the Attorney General previously that the 
language used in its notice did not comply with either the current or the prior version of the Open 
Meeting Law.6 See OML 2011-9. Although the prior decision by our office did not order 
remedial action, as the violations occurred prior to the date the Attorney General assumed 
responsibility for enforcing the Open Meeting Law, it clearly advised the Committee of the 
6 The Supreme Judicial Court also reviewed the Committee's use of this language and found it insufficient to satisfy 
the requirements of the Municipal Open Meeting Law in effect prior to July 1, 2010. District Attorney for the N. 
Dist. v. School Committee of Wayland. 455 Mass. 561 (2009). 
5 
===PAGE 6===
requirements of the current law. See OML 2011-9. While the Committee's makeup has changed 
slightly since that decision was issued, a quorum of the body's members served on the 
Committee at the time of both offenses. See OML 2013-163. Accordingly, because we find that 
the Committee had been previously advised by the Attorney General that this conduct violated 
the Open Meeting Law, we find that this violation was intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; 940 
CMR 29.02; OML 2013-63. We refer this matter for a hearing pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07(3) 
and recommend that the Committee be assessed a fine of $1,000 pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c) 
("Upon the finding of a violation, the attorney general may issue an order to . . . impose a civil 
penalty upon the public body of not more than $1,000 for each intentional violation"). We invite 
counsel for the Committee to contact this office to discuss the hearing process. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
In addition to referring this matter to a hearing on the issue of an intentional violation of the 
Open Meeting Law, we order the following remedial action: 
1. Immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25, and the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Regulations, 940 CMR 29.00 et seq.; 
2. Following written notice to the subject of the executive session discussion, 
publicly release of the portion of the June 3, 2013 executive session minutes related to the 
"Personnel Matter," as well as any documents used by the Committee during that executive 
session discussion. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Mark M. Higgins /V 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Wayland School Committee 
George Harris 
Donna Bouchard 
6 
===PAGE 7===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
7 