===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONEASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY TEL: (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
June 4, 2018 
OML 2018-76 
Katherine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan on August 15 alleging that the 
Ashland Charter Review Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on July 28, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated August 15. The complaint alleges that 
the Committee's July 26 notice "improperly posted a meeting for full Charter Review Committee 
instead of designated subcommittee of Charter Review," 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. We resolve this 
complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), after reviewing the 
original complaint, the Committee's response to the complaint, the complaint filed with our 
office requesting further review, the notices of the Committee's July 19 and 26 meetings, the 
notices of, and open session minutes from, the Board of Selectmen's (the "Board") July 19 and 
July 26 meetings, and a video recording of the July 19 joint meeting between the Committee and 
the Board.2 We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to a public body, which is defined in relevant part 
as, "a multiple-member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or 
legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, 
appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]" G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
A "subcommittee" is defined as "any multiple-member body created to advise or make 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 The video recording is available at https://livestreani.com/WACA-TVAshland/events/7608176/videos/160006243. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
SETL. TIASS^^K-C?: 
recommendations to a public body." Id. In general, meetings of a public body must be properly 
noticed and open to members of the public. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b). 
The Committee is a seven-member public body appointed by the Board for the purpose of 
reviewing the Ashland Town Charter. The Committee posted notices for meetings on July 19 
and July 26. One topic on the July 19 notice was "Board of Selectmen's Public Hearing on 
Charter Review Committee's Recommendations and Report." The only topic on the July 26 
notice was "Discuss Charter Review Recommendations." The Committee met jointly with the 
Board on July 19 and July 26, and discussed revisions to the Ashland Town Charter.3 At the 
conclusion of the July 19 joint meeting, the Board stated that it would review all the 
recommendations presented by the Committee at a subsequent meeting and indicated that it 
would be beneficial to have the chair or vice chair of the Committee at that meeting. Three 
members of the Committee were present at the July 26 joint meeting with the Board, including 
Chair Roberta Soolman and Vice Chair Ken Rush.4 
We conclude that the Committee did not create a subcommittee and did not otherwise 
assign, to the chair or vice chair, the task of advising or making recommendations to the Board 
on any subject. Rather, the Board, on July 19, requested that the Committee chair or vice chair 
attend its next meeting so they could further discuss possible revisions to the Ashland Town 
Charter. See OML 2014-93.5 Even though less than a quorum of the Committee was present at 
the July 26 joint meeting, we commend the Committee for posting notice of this meeting in the 
event that a quorum was present. We find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
cc: Stephen Morgan 
Charter Review Committee 
3 The Board posted notices for July 19 and July 26 meetings, and included "Charter Review Recommendations" as a 
topic on both notices. 
4 Joseph Magnani is a member of the Committee and a member of the Board, and he was present at the July 26 joint 
meeting. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
Sincerely, 
KerryArihe Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 
===PAGE 3===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member of a 
body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain Judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 