===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH  OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
February 11, 2013 
OML 2013 — 14 
Duncan Colter, Chair 
Ashfield Board of Health 
412 Main Street 
P.O. Box 560 
Ashfield, MA 01330 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Mr. Colter: 
This office received three complaints, from Sherrill Jourdan, dated July 1, 2012; Suzanne 
Corbett, dated July 12, 2012; and Deborah Nicholson, dated May 9, 2012, alleging that the 
Ashfield Board of Health (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
Ms. Jourdan' s complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about March 10, 2012, and the 
Board responded to the original complaint by letter dated May 23, 2012. 1  Ms. Corbett's 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about March 20, 2012, and the Board 
responded to the original complaint by letter dated May 23, 2012. Ms. Nicholson's complaint 
was originally filed with the Board on or about May 3, 2012, and the Board did not respond to 
the complaint.2  Because we find Ms. Nicholson's complaint untimely, we decline to review it. 
In their complaints, Ms. Jourdan and Ms. Corbett allege that the Board and you 
specifically3  violated the Open Meeting Law by convening an executive session on March 8, 
' We remind the Board that unless our office grants an extension, a public body must respond within 14 business 
days of receipt of a complaint, send a copy of the complaint to our office and notify us of any remedial action taken. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
2  An initial complaint must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the alleged violation or if the violation 
could not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then within 30 days of the date it should reasonably 
have been discovered. G.L. c. 30A § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3). Since the alleged violation could have been 
reasonably discovered when the executive session minutes were released on March 20, 2012, the complaint should 
have been filed at the very latest by April 19, 2012. 3  Ms. Jourdan further alleges that Health Agent Erin Kirchner also violated the Open Meeting Law. Ms. Kirchner is 
an individual public employee who is not a member of a public body, thus she was not required to comply with the 
Open Meeting Law and could not have violated it. We therefore decline to review the allegations against her and 
only consider her actions to the extent they relate to the complaint against the Board. 
0 
===PAGE 2===
2012 that was not listed as a topic on its meeting notice.4  Ms. Corbett further alleges that prior to 
entering into executive session, the Chair failed to state that the Board was convening an 
"Emergency Executive Session," failed to state with sufficient specificity the purpose for the 
executive session and failed to announce whether the Board would reconvene in open session. 
We reviewed Ms. Jourdan's March 10, 2012 complaint; Ms. Corbett's March 20, 2012 
complaint; Ms. Jourdan's July 1, 2012 and Ms. Corbett's July 12, 2012 complaints filed with our 
office, requesting further review; Ms. Jourdan's letters to our office, dated May 13, 2012 and 
June 12, 2012, and July 1, 2012;5  Ms. Corbett's May 22, 2012 and July 13, 2012 emails to our 
office; Ms. Corbett's letters to our office, dated June 9, 2012 and July 12, 2012; your May 23, 
2012 responses to both Ms. Jourdan's and Ms. Corbett's complaints, respectively; and your 
undated letter to our office regarding Ms. Jourdan's complaint, which we received on August 16, 
2012.6  We also spoke by telephone individually with Chairman Colter and Commissioner Susan 
Clark on December 18, 2012, and Commissioner Joanne Ostrowski on December 19, 2012. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing a topic during its meeting that was not included in the meeting notice because the 
Chair did not reasonably anticipate that the topic would arise. We find, however, that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by improperly discussing certain matters that were not 
appropriate for executive session behind closed doors; failing to follow required procedures for 
entering into executive session; failing to include sufficient detail about anticipated discussion 
topics in its meeting notice; and failing to include sufficient detail in its executive session 
minutes. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. On March 8, 
2012, the Board convened a meeting in open session. The meeting notice, filed with the clerk on 
February 28, 2012, included the following topics for discussion: "Minutes; Cleaning Up After 
Your Dog; Old Business; New Business." According to the meeting minutes, Chairman Colter 
"notified all present that the BOH was going into Executive Session to discuss personnel issues" 
and the Board consented to the executive session. The Board did not take a roll call vote to 
approve the executive session. Chairman Colter did not announce whether the Board would 
reconvene in open session after the closed door discussion concluded. During the executive 
session, Health Agent Erin Kirchner submitted a letter of resignation to the Board and explained 
her reasons for leaving the position. The Board and Ms. Kirchner subsequently discussed the 
process for hiring a replacement, including recommended qualifications for the position. 
Following this discussion, the Board approved a motion to "close the executive session and 
adjourn the meeting." 
4  Ms. Jourdan further alleges that during meetings, Betty Stewart, a fellow member of the public, does not permit 
Ms. Corbett to speak without being recognized by the Chair. We decline to investigate this allegation because Ms. 
Stewart is not a member of the Board and therefore is not subject to the Open Meeting Law. 5  In her letter, Ms. Jourdan further alleges that the minutes from the Board's May 20, 2012 meeting were inaccurate. 
We decline to review the additional allegation because it is beyond the scope of the original complaint filed with the 
public body. Potential violations discovered after a complaint has been filed with a public body should be alleged in 
a subsequent complaint filed with that body. This allows the public body an opportunity to investigate and take 
appropriate remedial action with regard to the additional allegations. 
6  For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
During a telephone conversation with this office on December 18, 2012, Chairman Colter 
explained that Ms. Kirchner had approached him a few minutes before the meeting appearing 
"visibly distraught" and requested that the Board convene an executive session for an "urgent" 
matter involving her health. Based on this conversation, Chairman Colter determined that an 
executive session was appropriate and that it could not wait for discussion at a future meeting. 
Commissioners Ostrowski and Clark were unaware of the specific reason for the executive 
session until it was revealed during the executive session. During a telephone conversation with 
this office, Commissioner Clark, who drafted the meeting minutes, explained that she had joined 
the Board in January 2012, and this was the first time she had taken minutes for an executive 
session. She explained that she was concerned about disclosing personal details about Ms. 
Kirchner, therefore she made the minutes more general in nature. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meeting notices "shall be printed in a legible, 
easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time, and place of such meeting and a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03. The Open Meeting Law does not require that the chair of a 
public body guess what will occur during a meeting, but the chair does need to list those topics 
that he or she reasonably anticipates will be discussed. See OML 2011-36; OML 2011-23; OML 
2011-13.7  A public body may consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting 
notice if it is a topic that the chair did not reasonably anticipate at least 48 hours before the 
meeting, however.8  
Chairman Colter explained that he first learned of Ms. Kirchner's resignation when she 
approached him minutes before the meeting, and it was apparent from their conversation that she 
wanted the Board to address the matter urgently. Accordingly, Chairman Colter felt that it was 
appropriate to convene in executive session to discuss her resignation. We therefore find that the 
Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing Ms. Kirchner's resignation during its 
March 8, 2012 executive session meeting because Chairman Colter did not reasonably anticipate 
this topic of discussion at least 48 hours before the meeting. Furthermore, we find that this was 
an appropriate topic of discussion for executive session. Although the Board did not state the 
purpose for its executive session, we believe its intent was to enter under Purpose 1, "No discuss 
the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional 
competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or 
charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." Id. at 
§ 21(a)(1). The Board's discussion surrounding Ms. Kirchner's resignation generally fit within 
the parameters of executive session Purpose 1, as it related to her health and her ability to 
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.goviago/openmeeting. 
8  See www.mass.cov/ago/openmeeting: 
Q: May a public body consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice? 
A: Yes, if it is a topic that the chair did not reasonably anticipate 48 hours before the meeting. If a meeting topic is 
proposed after the meeting notice is posted, the public body is encouraged to update its posting to provide the public 
with as much notice as possible of what subjects will be discussed during a meeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
continue working as Health Agent.9  The subsequent discussion about hiring a replacement 
health agent did not fall within any of the ten enumerated purposes for executive session, 
however, and was not appropriate for discussion behind closed doors. Additionally, we note that 
when a public body enters executive session under Purpose 1, the individual to be discussed in 
the session must be notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed 
executive session, unless notification is waived upon written agreement of the parties. Id. It 
appears that here, the Board failed to obtain a written agreement waiving the notification 
requirement. 
Moreover, we find that the Board failed to follow the requisite procedural steps for 
convening an executive session under the Open Meeting Law. A public body may enter 
executive, or closed, session provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a 
majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, and that the vote of 
each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). Before 
entering the executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive session, stating 
all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive 
session was called, and the chair must publicly announce whether the open session will 
reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session. Id. Although the Board did convene in 
open session prior to convening in executive session, it failed to follow the remaining procedural 
steps. 
These are not mere technical violations. The statement of the executive session purpose 
is the public's only way of knowing what is being discussed behind closed doors, until the 
executive session minutes are released. OML 2012-55. Transparency therefore demands that 
the statement contain as much detail as possible without compromising the purpose for the 
executive session. Id. When a public body does not adhere to these requirements, the public has 
no means of judging the propriety of the executive session. Id. 
Additionally, we find that several topics on the Board's agenda, including "New 
Business" and "Old Business," were insufficiently detailed for purposes of the Open Meeting 
Law. Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 
29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable 
member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public 
body's discussion. See OML 2011-44. A boilerplate topic such as "Old Business" is vague and 
does not offer the public an understanding of the anticipated topics to be discussed at that 
particular meeting. 
As a final matter, we find that the March 8, 2012 executive session minutes 10  were not 
sufficient for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting Law requires that a public 
body "create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting 
forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on 
each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and 
9  As discussed in more detail below, the executive session minutes do not accurately and sufficiently reflect the 
discussion, as it was described by members of the Board during telephone conversations with our office. 
10  Upon request, these minutes were released to the public during the next Board meeting held on March 20, 2012. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). While 
the minutes must include a summary of the discussions on each subject, a transcript is not 
required. Minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy, however, so that a member of the 
public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of 
what occurred. OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. 
While the open session minutes from the March 8, 2012 meeting substantially complied 
with this requirement, we find that the Board omitted certain key details from its executive 
session minutes. We do not find this inaccuracy to be intentional, but rather a misunderstanding 
of the Law. Commissioner Clark was relatively new to the Board and it was her first time 
drafting executive session minutes. Commissioner Clark was concerned about disclosing 
personal details about Ms. Kirchner and therefore made the minutes more general. We 
acknowledge that sometimes public business can involve the discussion of sensitive topics. 
OML 2012-19. Nevertheless, the Open Meeting Law is absolutely clear that public bodies must 
maintain accurate minutes of the entirety of their deliberations in order to achieve the purpose of 
transparency in the formulation of public policy. Id. Accordingly, we order the Board to draft 
and approve revised minutes for the March 8, 2012 executive session that contain a summary of 
the discussion with sufficient detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. 
While we do not order the Board to release the revised executive session minutes in their entirety 
until it has concluded that publication would no longer defeat the lawful purpose for the 
executive session,11  we order the Board to release those portions of the revised minutes that were 
not appropriate for discussion in executive session. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by discussing a topic during its meeting that was not included in the meeting notice because 
the chair did not reasonably anticipate that the topic would arise. We find, however, that the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law by improperly discussing certain matters that were not 
appropriate for executive session behind closed doors, failing to follow required procedures for 
entering into executive session, failing to include sufficient detail about anticipated discussion 
topics in its meeting notice and failing to include sufficient detail in its executive session 
minutes. 
We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that 
future similar conduct may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. We also order 
the Board to review the Open Meeting Law Guide, available at the Attorney General's Open 
Government website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting,  and certify in writing to this office, 
within thirty (30) days of the date of this letter, that they have reviewed this determination and 
the Guide. Additionally, we order the Board to draft and approve the revised executive session 
11  We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law allows a public body to withhold executive session meeting 
minutes only as long as disclosure of such minutes would defeat the lawful purpose for the executive session. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any 
documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to 
the public records law applies. Id. Public bodies must therefore review their executive session minutes periodically 
to determine whether or not continued non-disclosure is warranted. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). 
5 
===PAGE 6===
minutes within thirty (30) days of the date of this letter and release those portions that were not 
appropriate for discussion in executive session. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this 
letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Sherrill Jourdan 
Suzanne Corbett 
Deborah Nicholson 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
6 