===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
September 20, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 172 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Dr. James P. Hall, Esq. 
Lowell School Department,4
th Floor 
135 Merrimack Street 
Lowell, MA 01852 
 
jhall@lowell.k12.ma.us 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Hall: 
 
This office received a complaint from Laura Ortiz on July 12, 2024, alleging that the 
Lowell School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on April 16, 2024, and you 
responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated May 7.
1  The complaint alleges that 
members of the Committee failed to certify receipt of Open Meeting Law materials within two 
weeks of appointment, as required by the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged in the complaint.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review and the 
exhibits appended thereto.  We also viewed a recording of the inauguration of the current 
Committee.
2    
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “within 2 weeks of qualification for office, all 
persons serving on a public body shall certify, on a form prescribed by the attorney general, the 
receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, regulations promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a 
copy of the educational materials prepared by the attorney general explaining the open meeting 
law ... The certification shall be evidence that the member of a public body has read and 
understands the requirements of the open meeting law and the consequences of violating it.” 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A recording of the January 2 meeting, including the inauguration ceremony, can be found at 
https://youtu.be/_uWiub_TIpc. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
G.L. c. 30A § 20(h).  The Open Meeting Law regulations further define the educational materials 
that must be provided, including a copy of each Open Meeting Law determination issued to the 
public body within the last five years in which our office found a violation.  940 CMR 29.04(1).  
Finally, the regulations clarify that public body members “must sign a new certification upon 
reelection or reappointment to the public body.”  940 CMR 29.04(4) and (5).  
 
The Committee was inaugurated on January 2.  Members received copies of the Open 
Meeting Law, regulations, and educational material on or about April 5, and certified receipt of 
same between April 6 and April 24.  Copies of all certificates were forwarded to the complainant 
on April 24.
3    Because Committee members did not certify receipt of the Open Meeting Law 
materials within two weeks of qualification for office, we find that the Committee violated the 
Open Meeting Law.  To the extent that the complaint alleges that the Lowell City Clerk also 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to provide the materials to the Committee members 
and by failing to retain certificates completed by members, we decline to review those 
allegations.  Although the certification forms must be submitted to and retained by the clerk, and 
the Open Meeting Law regulations clarify that the municipal clerk is the person who shall 
perform the administrative task of delivering the educational materials to the public body 
members, ultimately the requirement of compliance with the Open Meeting Law’s certification 
provisions remains with public bodies and public body members.  See OML 2012-79.
4  
Therefore, we decline to review any separate allegation that the Lowell City Clerk also violated 
the Open Meeting Law.  See id.   
 
Next, we must determine whether the violation was, as the complainant urges, 
intentional.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public 
body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 29.02.  
An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of 
the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law.  Id.  The complainant notes that the Committee has previously been found in 
violation of the Open Meeting Law.  In support of her allegation of intent, the complainant 
references two Open Meeting Law determinations previously issued by our office.  However, 
neither determination concerned the failure to certify receipt of educational materials.  We have 
not warned the Committee previously against the violation found here, to wit, failure to certify 
receipt of educational materials.   Therefore, we decline to find the violation intentional. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
when members failed to certify receipt of copies of the Open Meeting Law, regulations 
promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a copy of the educational materials, as required by the 
Open Meeting Law.  We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, 
and caution the Committee that a similar future violation may be considered evidence of an 
 
3 The Committee maintains that the complaint is not timely.  We find that it is.  To be considered timely, an Open 
Meeting Law complaint must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the alleged violation, or, if the alleged 
violation could not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then within 30 days of the date it should 
reasonably  have been discovered.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4).  The failure to certify receipt of 
Open Meeting Law materials could reasonably have been known upon receipt of copies of the certificates on April 
24.  As the complaint was filed with the Committee on April 16, it was timely.   
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
intentional violation of the law.  Because the Committee has now certified receipt of the Open 
Meeting Law materials, we order no further relief.  We now consider the complaints addressed 
by this determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints 
that may be pending with our office or the Committee.  Please feel free to contact the Division at 
(617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  Laura Ortiz (via email: ) 
Lowell School Committee (via email: SchoolCommittee@lowell.k12.ma.us) 
Mayor Daniel P. Rourke (via email: drourke@lowellma.gov) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
