===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 18, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 202 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Christine Lindberg 
Ashby Town Administrator 
tadministrator@ashbyma.gov  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Lindberg: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick McPhee on September 15, 2022,
1 alleging 
that the Ashby Selectboard (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about August 7, and you responded 
on behalf of the Board by email on September 15. The complaint alleges that the minutes for the 
Board’s April 13 meeting are insufficiently detailed. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s 
response, the request for further review, the minutes of the Board’s April 13 meeting, a video 
recording of the Board’s April 13 meeting,
2 and additional information and documents provided 
to our office by Mr. McPhee. We also communicated with Mr. McPhee by telephone and email. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the April 13 meeting can be found at https://vimeo.com/703530961. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for 
substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2017-104; OML 2013-64.3 By 
substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so 
that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2019-145; OML 2012-106. Although a 
transcript of the discussions is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark 
or opinion presented, minutes must include a substantive summary of the discussion on each 
topic. See OML 2018-8; OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. 
 
The complaint alleges that the minutes for the Board’s April 13 meeting are insufficiently 
detailed. In particular, the complaint asserts that the minutes failed to sufficiently capture the 
discussion of drainage problems on Heywood Road. We agree. During the approximately hour-
long discussion of Heywood Road the Board received an overview from the Town Administrator 
and heard from various individuals, including a member of and a volunteer for the Conservation 
Commission. The Board also discussed whether and how to meet to view the location in person 
and whether a notice of intent would be required. The hour-long discussion was summarized in 
the minutes as follows: “Selectboard discusses drainage issues on Heywood Road. No motion 
made. No votes taken.” This is insufficient to comply with the requirement to summarize the 
discussion that occurred.  
 
Additionally, we find that the April 13 meeting minutes are insufficient in general where 
they m
erely contain a list of topics discussed, motions made, and votes taken without 
summarizing any of the discussions that occurred. This is insufficient to comply with the Open 
Meeting Law. See OML 2022-195; OML 2019-157; OML 2018-157. Furthermore, we note that 
the minutes must reflect the discussions that actually occurred, even those discussions regarding 
topics that were not included on the meeting notice.  
 
Final
ly, we note that the Board did not timely respond to the Open Meeting Law 
complaint. We remind the Board of its obligation to comply will all requirements of the Open 
Meeting Law including the requirement to respond to complaints in a timely manner. The Open 
Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law Regulations require that, within 14 
business days after receiving a complaint, a public body must meet to review the complaint’s 
allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the complainant a response and a 
description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23; 940 CMR 29.05(5). The public body 
shall simultaneously provide the Attorney General with a copy of the complaint, the response, 
and a description of any remedial action taken. 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
creating insufficiently detailed minutes for its April 13 meeting. We order the Board’s immediate 
and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar future violations 
may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the law. Additionally, we order the Board to 
amend the minutes of its April 13 meeting, within 30 days of the date of this letter, in compliance 
with the guidance provided above.  
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Dave Nadeau, Chair, Ashby Selectboard (via email: dnadeau@ashbyma.gov) 
Patrick McPhee (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
