===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACI-IUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
May 15, 2012 
OML 2012 - 37 
Heather Applegate, Chair 
Mendon-Upton Regional School Committee 
150 North Ave. 
Mendon, MA 01756 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Superintendent Maruszczak: 
This office reviewed a complaint dated January 23, 2012, filed by Mr. Michael 
Goodwin, alleging that the Mendon-Upton Regional School Committee (the "Committee") 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint states that 1) 
the notice for the Committee's April 25, 2011 meeting listed a topic for discussion only as "Roll 
Call for Executive Session (if necessary)," which lacked sufficient specificity; 2) during the 
Committee's April 25, 2011 meeting, the Chair failed to state that entering executive session 
would have a detrimental effect on the Committee's bargaining position; and 3) during the 
Committee's April 25, 2011 meeting, the Committee cited executive session Purpose 3 when it 
entered into executive session to discuss topics appropriate under Purpose 2. The complaint was 
filed with the Committee on November 10, 2011. The Committee responded by letter dated 
November 28, 2011. 
After reviewing the complaint and the Committee's response, we have decided to resolve 
this complaint by informal action,  in accordance with 940 CMR 29.017(2)(a). We find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law, but took appropriate remedial action in response to 
the complaint. The Committee acknowledged in its November 10, 2011 letter that "its notice 
was deficient and recognize[d] that it did not follow the appropriate procedure for calling 
===PAGE 2===
Sincerel 
executive session." The Committee stated that, in instances where the topic "Roll Call for 
Executive Session" is listed on future notices, "the Committee will include on the agenda 
specific information as to the purpose of the executive session, stating all subjects (including the 
bargaining unit if applicable) that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for the 
executive session." The Committee additionally recognized that "the purpose for which the 
executive session was stated was incorrect and did not sufficiently put the public on notice as to 
the purpose for which the executive session was held...the Committee will publish a correction 
to the executive session meeting minutes that accurately reflects the motion made at the open 
meeting." We note that minutes must accurately reflect what occurred during a meeting, 
therefore it would be improper for the Committee to amend the minutes to reflect a motion to 
enter executive session for a purpose that was not actually stated. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
However, it would be appropriate for the Committee to amend the minutes to add a statement 
that the Committee made a mistake in its motion to enter executive session (here, citing the 
executive session purpose for collective bargaining when the Committee intended to cite the 
purpose for non-union personnel contract negotiations). Finally, we note that the Committee has 
stated that, in the future, it will follow a checklist when entering executive session to ensure 
consistent procedural compliance with the Open Meeting Law. 
In addition to the remedial steps already taken by the Committee, we order the 
Committee's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution the 
Committee that future similar violations may be considered evidence of intention to violate the 
law. 
With the issuance of this determination, we now consider this matter closed. This letter 
does not resolve any other complaints against the Committee that may be pending with our 
office. 
J athan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Michael Goodwin 