===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 26, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 141 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Philip Jordan 
Chair, Wrentham School Committee 
schoolcommittee@wrenthamschools.org  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Philip Jordan: 
 
This office received a complaint from Michael Smith on May 17, 2024,
1 alleging that the 
Wrentham School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about April 19, and you 
responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated May 15, following an extension of time 
granted by our office. The complaint alleges that a quorum of Committee members deliberated 
outside of a posted meeting via email on March 21, 24, and 25. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a posted meeting via email on March 21, 24, and 25. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response, the 
request for further review, and the March 21, 24, and 25 emails at issue in the complaint. 
Additionally, we reviewed video recordings of the Committee’s September 12, 2023, March 25, 
April 9, and April 29 meetings.
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law states, in relevant part, that “[e]xcept in an 
emergency, ... a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Except when 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 Video recordings of Wrentham School Committee meetings can be viewed at 
https://www.wrentham.k12.ma.us/Our-District/School-Committee/Meeting-Recordings/index.html 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
convened in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.” G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(a).  
 
A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” 
broadly as any “oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, 
between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id. 
The Law excludes from the definition of “deliberation” “the distribution of a meeting agenda, 
scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of 
reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member 
is expressed.” Id. A “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id. A one-
way communication from one public body member to a quorum on matters within the body's 
jurisdiction constitutes deliberation for purposes of the Open Meeting Law, even if no other 
public body member responds. See OML 2016-104; OML 2015-33; OML 2012-73.
3 A public 
body may not engage in serial communication whereby a quorum communicates in a non-
contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a subject within the public body’s jurisdiction. 
See OML 2015-3; OML 2012-84; OML 2011-27; McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 
(2008) (holding that private serial communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law 
and may not be used to circumvent the intent of the law). 
 
The complaint alleges that Committee members Lashway, Greaney, and Clutterbuck 
deliberated via email between March 21 and March 25 about a proposed policy submitted to the 
Committee that would regulate political and social discussion by teachers. The Committee 
acknowledged that “the identified communications between its members... constituted 
deliberations by a quorum of the Committee and the Committee’s Policy Subcommittee outside 
of a public meeting.” We agree and find that the email communications between members 
Lashway, Greaney, and Clutterbuck constituted deliberation outside a posted meeting, in 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. We commend the Committee’s efforts to ensure future 
compliance by restructuring its Policy Subcommittee, committing to attending an Open Meeting 
Law training session, and arranging for additional training to be provided by the Committee’s 
legal counsel.  
 
Next, we must determine if the violation was, as the complainant alleges, intentional. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body or a 
member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. An 
intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the 
Law's requirements or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law. Id. We note concern that three members of the Committee engaged in deliberation 
outside a posted meeting despite apparently receiving training on the Open Meeting Law several 
months prior. Moreover, during the Committee’s March 25 meeting, Chair Jordan represented to 
all in attendance that because the Open Meeting Law prohibits Committee members from 
communicating about policies outside of a meeting, none of the Committee members had prior 
opportunity to discuss the policy nor knew where each other stood on the matter; Committee 
members Lashway, Greaney, and Clutterbuck did not disclose that they had, in fact, discussed 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
the proposed policy by email during the preceding days.4 Nonetheless, we find no specific 
evidence that the Committee or its members intentionally violated the Open Meeting Law at the 
time they engaged in the email communications; rather, Committee members demonstrated a 
continued lack of understanding of the Law’s requirements.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by deliberating via email outside a posted meeting. We order the Committee’s immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Committee that a determination 
by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate 
the Open Meeting Law. In addition, we order the Committee to publicly release the Committee 
Members’ emails from March 21, 24, and 25 discussed above within 30 days from the date of 
this determination. The Committee may publicly release the email by reading the contents during 
a meeting and listing the email in the meeting minutes, or by referencing the email during a 
meeting and posting the email along with the minutes on the municipal website. Finally, we 
order all Committee members to attend an Open Meeting Law training presented by our office.
5 
The Committee shall certify to our office within sixty (60) days from the date of this letter that it 
has complied with this order.  
 
  
 
4 During the Committee’s March 25 meeting, Chair Jordan stated to all in attendance: 
“Any policy that is brought in front of the committee, we have what is called the first reading, which is the first time 
any of us talk about this with each other and so there is a lot of people here maybe new to school committee practice 
but we are not allowed to discuss policy and how we’re going to vote on it, what we think about it with each other 
outside of the context of a public meeting. So none of us know where each other stands on this we haven’t talked 
about any of the issues, it’s the first time this draft has been brought to us on all of these issues in for a first reading. 
Then polices receive a second reading a month later which is when the vote occurs unless it’s waived. 
... 
“We are not allowed to talk about this either without all of you present that’s how Open Meetings Law works. So 
there won’t be any additional opportunity for us to discuss this outside of open meeting so you’re all, you know, 
welcome to attend and participate in that open meeting process.” 
 
5 Information on upcoming trainings may be found at https://www.mass.gov/info-details/open-meeting-law-
trainings. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Wrentham 
School Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if 
you have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
        
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
Assisted by Rebecca Wood, Legal Intern 
 
cc: Michael Smith (via email: ) 
 Wrentham Town Clerk (via email: cthompson@wrentham.gov) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
