===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 14, 2015 
OML 2015-116 
Robert S. Troy, Esq. 
Troy Wall Associates 
90 Route 6A 
Sandwich, MA 02563 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Troy: 
This office received five complaints from Ronald Beaty alleging that the Barnstable 
County Board of Regional Commissioners (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaints allege that the notices for Board meetings on 
March 25, April 1, April 15, April 22, April 29, and May 6 lacked "sufficient specificity to 
clearly, adequately and reasonably inform the public about the purpose, scope and content of the 
issues to be discussed."1 The first complaint was filed with the Board on March 24, and the 
Board responded by letter dated April 7. The second complaint was filed with the Board on 
March 30, and the Board responded by letter dated April 14. The third complaint was filed with 
the Board on April 1 and the Board responded by letter dated April 21. The fourth complaint 
was filed with the Board on April 18 and the Board responded by letter dated May 8. The fifth 
complaint was filed with the Board on May 10 and the Board responded by letter dated May 29.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the five complaints filed with the Board, the Board's 
responses, and the five complaints filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed the notices 
for, and minutes of, the Board's March 25, April 1, April 15, April 22, April 29, and May 6 
meetings. Finally, we spoke with Mr. Beaty by telephone on May 1 and with Board Attorney 
Robert Troy by telephone on June 30.3 
1 All dates refer to the year 2015. The complaints were filed with our office on April 15, April 18, April 22, May 
11, and June 2, respectively. The March 30 and April 1 complaints both concern the April 1 meeting. The April 18 
complaint alleges violations for two meeting dates, April 15 and April 22. The May 10 complaint also alleges 
violations for two meeting dates, April 29 and May 6. 
2 The fifth complaint also alleges that the Board refused to provide emails in response to Mr. Beaty's request. 
The Division of Open Government's review concerns only compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. This allegation concerns compliance with the Public Records Law, thus we decline to review this allegation 
and refer the complainant to the Supervisor of Records within the Office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth 
ifhe wishes to appeal the Board's response to his request. See G.L. c. 66, § 10. 
3 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The notice for the Board's March 25 meeting included the 
following topics: 
4. d. Discussion and Recommendation Specific to FY2015 Continuing Appropriations. 
5. b. Approval of prepayment and transfer requests over $25,000. 
d. Approval of Contracts and Contract Amendments over $25,000. 
e. Review of all actions taken by County Administrator under $25,000, personnel 
actions, and out-of-state travel. 
The notice for the Board's April 1 meeting included the following topics: 
4. e. Motion to Convene in Executive Session Under M.G.L., Chapter 30A, Section 
21(a)(1) for Review and Possible Vote of a Request from a County Employee that 
may include Discussion of Medical Issues Relating to the Employee, and to 
Reconvene in Open Session. 
f. Potential Vote of a Medical Leave Request. 
The notice for the Board's April 15 and April 22 meetings included the following topics: 
5. b. Vote to approve the Summary of Actions over $25,000, (include prepayment and 
transfer requests, bid awards. Contracts and Contract Amendments), 
c. Review of all actions taken by the County Administrator under $25,000, (include 
personnel actions, out-of-state travel, prepayment and transfer requests). 
The notice for the Board's April 29 meeting included the following topics: 
4. c. Motion to Convene in Executive Session Under M.G.L., Chapter 30A, Section 
21(a)(1) for Review and Possible Vote on a request from a County Employee that 
may include Discussion of Medical Issues Relating to the Employee, and to 
Reconvene in Open Session. 
4. d. Potential Vote of a Medical Leave Request. 
5. b. Vote to approve the Summary of Actions over $25,000, (include prepayment and 
transfer requests, bid awards. Contracts and Contract Amendments). 
5. c. Review of all actions taken by the County Administrator under $25,000, (include 
personnel actions, out-of-state travel, prepayment and transfer requests). 
During the Board's April 29 meeting, the Board voted to approve a summary of actions 
that included three County agreements. The Board then voted to ratify the actions taken by the 
County Administrator, including approving a payment in the amount of $332,427.09 to the Cape 
Cod Municipal Health Group for health, dental and vision insurance for employees and retirees 
for the month of May 2015. Following Commissioner Reports, the Board entered into executive 
session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1), for a "Review and Possible Vote on a Request from a 
County Employee that may include Discussion of Medical Issues Relating to the Employee." 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Following the executive session, the Board reconvened in open session and voted to extend a 
medical leave for an employee. 
The notice for the Board's May 6 meeting included the following topics: 
4. c. General Discussion on the Potential Hiring of Specialized Legal Counsel for 
Matters Relating to Personnel - Commissioner Lyons. 
4. d. Review and Motion to Approve Draft Barnstable HUD CPD HOME Consortium 
2015-2019 Consolidated Plan - Cape Cod Commission. 
5. b. Vote to approve the Summary of Actions over $25,000, (include prepayment and 
transfer requests, bid awards. Contracts and Contract Amendments). 
5. c. Review of all actions taken by the County Administrator under $25,000, (include 
personnel actions, out-of-state travel, prepayment and transfer requests). 
During the May 6 meeting, the Board discussed hiring special legal counsel for personnel 
matters. The Board also reviewed and approved the draft Barnstable County HUD CPD Home 
Consortium 2015-2019 Consolidated Plan, noting the housing needs for the region that the plan 
would address. Finally, the Board approved the summary of actions taken by the County 
Administrator. 
According to the Board's Attorney, the general practice of the Board is that the Summary 
of Actions over $25,000 and the review of actions under $25,000 are presented to the Board by 
the County Administrator at regular meetings. The Board then engages in the ministerial task of 
reviewing and signing off on approval of expenditures. There is often little or no discussion. In 
response to Mr. Beaty's complaints, the Board voted during its May 6 meeting to adopt a policy 
by which the "Summary of Actions" in the notice will be replaced with a list of all of the items to 
be reviewed by the Board. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Notices for the Board's March 25. April L April 15, and April 22 Meetings are 
Sufficiently Specific on their Face. 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b). Notices must include 
"a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." Id. 
The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to 
be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
When reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its 
face, we do not review a meeting notice standing alone. Rather, we review what was actually 
discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently detailed to make the public 
aware of the discussion topics. See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155.4 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Mr. Beaty alleges that the notices for Board's March 25, April 1, April 15, and April 22 
meetings were not sufficiently specific. The complaints concerning each of these meeting 
notices were filed before the meetings took place. We therefore reviewed whether, on their face, 
the notices for these meetings were sufficient to notify the public of all topics the chair 
reasonably anticipated the Board would discuss. We find that the notices met this requirement, 
and therefore we find no violation of the Law.5 
In the future, we encourage Mr. Beaty to reach out to the Board if he believes a notice 
lacks sufficient detail, rather than filing an Open Meeting Law complaint prior to the meeting. A 
public body may update its meeting notice with additional detail if it learns that a noticed topic 
may be confusing to the public. See OML 2013-182; OML 2013-174. 
2. The Notices for the Board's April 29 and May 6 Meetings were Sufficiently Specific to 
Notify the Public of the Discussions that Occurred. 
Before entering into executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive 
session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). This level of detail must also be 
included in the meeting notice. See OML 2014-145; OML 2011-15. The notice for the Board's 
April 29 meeting listed an executive session to discuss a request from a county employee that 
may involve possible discussion of medical issues related to the employee. The notice cited the 
statutory basis for this executive session, and described the subject of the discussion. See G.L. c. 
3OA, § 21(b)(3). Additionally, the notice listed an open session discussion immediately 
following the executive session to potentially vote on a medical leave request. During the 
Board's April 29 meeting, the Board approved the summary of actions taken by the County 
Administrator, discussed a medical leave request in executive session, and approved the medical 
leave request in open session. These notice topics were sufficiently specific and detailed to 
inform the public about the nature of the Board's anticipated discussions. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 
940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
The notice for the Board's May 6 meeting included topics related to hiring special legal 
counsel and approving a plan from the Cape Cod Commission. The topic related to hiring 
special counsel was sufficient to inform the public that the Board would be discussing hiring 
special legal counsel related to personnel matters, which is in fact what the Board discussed 
during the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). The second topic was 
sufficiently specific to inform the public that the Board would be reviewing and considering 
approval of a draft Barnstable housing 2015-2019 consolidated plan, presented by the Cape Cod 
Commission. Again, this is exactly what the Board discussed during the meeting. However, we 
note that use of abbreviations that are not commonly understood may be confusing to the public. 
Thus, in the interest of clarity, we encourage the Board to write out terms in the future that may 
not be familiar to the general public (i.e. replacing "HUD CPD HOME" with "Department of 
5 One complaint, filed on April 1, alleges that the notice was not sufficiently specific for an April 1 meeting. This 
complaint was filed by email during the meeting. We note that the topic that was the subject of the allegation, 
"Potential Vote of a Medical Leave Request," was sufficiently specific on its face to inform the public that the 
Board was considering a medical leave request, referenced in the preceding executive session topic, and could be 
taking a vote on that matter. See 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
4 
===PAGE 5===
Housing and Urban Development Community Planning and Development HOME Investment 
Partnerships Program"). See OML 2014-116; OML 2013-46. 
The notices for the Board's April 29 and May 6 meetings both listed topics related to 
approving a Summary of Actions over $25,000 and reviewing actions taken by the County 
Administrator under $25,000. In neither case did the Chair anticipate the specific items to be 
reviewed. According to the Board's Attorney, the Summary of Actions over $25,000 and the 
review of actions under $25,000 are presented to the Board at the meeting. The Board then 
engages in the ministerial task of reviewing and signing off on the actions. There is often little 
or no discussion. For both meetings, the County Administrator presented a summary of actions 
to the Board for review, which the Board then approved. It is clear from our conversation with 
the Board's counsel that the Chair did not anticipate the specific items to be reviewed. 
Therefore, we find that the descriptions in the notices were sufficiently specific to inform the 
public that the Board would be conducting a review and approval of the County Administrator's 
actions. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
We note that the Board adopted a new notice policy during its May 6 meeting, pledging 
to add additional detail to its meeting notices, including itemized lists of actions to be taken and 
documents to be approved by the Board. We are encouraged by this action, which is in keeping 
with our previous guidance in OML 2013-15. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve any 
other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Board. Please feel free to 
contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Barnstable County Board of Regional Commissioners 
Ronald Beaty 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
5 