===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, M ASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 29, 2016 
OML 2016-83 
Kevin Conroy, Esq. 
Foley Hoag LLP 
155 Seaport Boulevard 
Boston, MA 02210 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Conroy: 
This office received a complaint from Attorney Peggy Wiesenberg on behalf of Quality 
Education for Every Student (QUEST), dated January 28, 2016, alleging that the Boston 
Compact Steering Committee (the Steering Committee) and its subcommittees violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c, 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Steering 
Committee and its subcommittees do not follow the Open Meeting Law, including posting notice 
and creating minutes of their meetings. The complaint was originally filed with Steering 
Committee on or about November 24, 2015, and Assistant City Solicitor Carol Driscoll 
responded to the complaint by letter, dated December 17, 2015, stating that the City of Boston 
did not represent the Boston Compact and therefore could not respond on its behalf. 
Following our review, we find that the Steering Committee and its subcommittees are not 
public bodies subject to the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this decision, we reviewed the 
original complaint; Assistant City Solicitor Driscoll's response; the request for further review 
filed with our office; and your letter, dated May 20, 2016. We also reviewed materials submitted 
to our office by the parties, as well as materials available on the Boston Compact website.1 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. In September 2011, the City of Boston (the City), the 
Boston School Committee (the School Committee)2 and the Boston Alliance of Charter Schools3 
(the Alliance) signed a document it called "the Compact." In 2012, the Archdiocese of Boston 
and the principals of several Catholic schools in Boston signed an addendum to the Compact. 
On October 14, 2015, the School Committee approved a "renewed" Compact. This document 
1 See http://www.bostoncoinpact.org/. 
2 The School Committee approved the original Compact during its September 19, 2011 meeting. 
3 The Alliance is a sub-group of the Massachusetts Charter Public School Association, Inc., a private, nonprofit 
corporation. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
o 
===PAGE 2===
was again signed by the representatives from each sector. The Compact has a private fiscal 
sponsor, the Boston Private Industry Council, Inc., a nonprofit organization. 
The Compact's puipose is to provide a venue for collaboration and partnerships among 
all of the schools in the City. For example, one of the goals of the Compact is to create a 
common enrollment calendar for all schools in the City. Any proposed action is submitted back 
to the representative sectors to consider and act upon. Any action recommended by the Compact 
to the School Committee would be discussed during an open meeting of the School Committee. 
The first "Strategy" listed in the original Compact created a Steering Committee 
consisting of five staff members appointed by the School Committee and five staff members 
appointed by the Alliance. The Compact charged the Steering Committee "with transparent 
oversight of shared initiatives, collaborative problem-solving, and securing and distributing 
financial resources for shared work." On July 15, 2015, the Steering Committee adopted bylaws 
which outline the composition and responsibilities of the Steering Committee, its subcommittees 
and staff. The bylaws define the composition of the Steering Committee as a group of thirteen 
members: four representatives from each school sector and one representative from the Mayor's 
office. According to the bylaws, the Steering Committee is "charged with setting priorities for 
collaborative work...and bring[ing] policy recommendations and annual updates to school 
boards," The bylaws also created five standing subcommittees: Governance; Operation; 
Teaching and Learning; School Partnerships; and Ad Hoc Committees. These subcommittees 
are each led by a chair who recruits members to participate. The bylaws do not require any 
particular composition of membership for these subcommittees. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law defines a "public body," in relevant part, as "a multiple member 
board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or 
within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]" G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
To determine whether a multiple-member entity is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, there are three factors we consider: 
1. The entity must be "within" government and not excluded from the definition 
of "public body;" 
2. The entity must be a "body" empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a "public purpose." 
The Steering Committee satisfies the second and third factors, but not the first factor. 
Comprised of thirteen distinct members, it is clearly a body empowered to act collectively. See 
OML 2013-56.4 It serves a public puipose because its function is to set priorities and bring 
policy recommendations and annual updates to school boards across the City. It fails the first 
factor, however, because it is not "within government." 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting, 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Where an entity is not clearly placed within government by law, as is the case here, it 
may still be "within" government if the government played a significant role in creating or 
structuring the group, the government has control over the group, and the group primarily 
performs an essentially governmental function. See OML 2010-1. We find that the Committee 
does not satisfy all three of these factors and therefore it is not "within" government. See OML 
2015-34; OML 2015-189. Although the government, i.e.. the School Committee and the Mayor, 
played a significant role in creating and structuring the Compact and its Steering Committee, it 
does not have control over the Steering Committee because its representative appointees consist 
of only 5 of the 13 total members and hence, less than a quorum of the Committee. The other 
representative sectors, the Catholic schools and the Alliance, are private, non-profit 
organizations. Furthermore, the Compact is entirely privately-funded. See OML 2016-3; OML 
2015-108. Therefore, the Steering Committee is not "within government." Because the Steering 
Committee does not satisfy all three factors, as outlined above, we find that it is not a public 
body subject to the Open Meeting Law and did not violate it. Based on this analysis, the various 
subcommittees of the Steering Committee are also not public bodies subject to the law. 
Although the Steering Committee is not required to comply with the law's requirements, we 
encourage the Compact and the Steering Committee to provide opportunities for the public to 
participate in its process. See OML 2011-42. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Steering Committee and its subcommittees 
are not public bodies subject to the Open Meeting Law, thus they could not have violated its 
requirements. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Steering Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Peggy Wiesenberg, Esq. 
Boston Compact Steering Committee 
Caroline Driscoll, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 