===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 16, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 215 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Etty Singer, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
50 Braintree Hill Office Park 
Suite 410 
Braintree, MA 02184 
esinger@mhtl.com  
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Singer: 
 
This office received a complaint from David Groh on May 29, 2025,
1 alleging that the 
Norwood Hospital Working Group (the “Working Group”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Town on or about May 2, and you 
responded on behalf of the Town and its Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) by letter dated May 
28. The complaint alleges that the Working Group is a public body subject to the Open Meeting 
Law and that it has failed to comply with the Law by failing to post meeting notices, hold 
meetings open to the public, and create and maintain meeting minutes. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Working Group is not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law and therefore could not have violated the Open Meeting Law. In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Town and the Board’s 
response, the Complainant’s request for further review by our office, and video recordings of 
Board meetings held on February 11, February 25, March 11, and March 25.
2 We also 
communicated with legal counsel for the Town by telephone and email.3 
 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 Video recordings of Board meetings may be found at https://www.norwoodcommunitymedia.org/.  
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The complaint arises out of the closure of Norwood 
Hospital in 2020 and the Working Group that was formed to discuss healthcare access in the 
region and finding a potential operator for Norwood Hospital. According to a statement 
announcing the Working Group, the Group would:  
 
include health care providers that serve the region, public health officials, labor 
leaders, emergency service providers, community leaders and elected and local 
government officials and business leaders. The working group will publicize 
findings about the state of health care access in the region — including acute care 
in light of the Norwood Hospital closure — based on data, community feedback 
and input from key stakeholders with their ultimate goal of finding a suitable 
operator for Norwood Hospital.
4 
 
 The Working Group has 21 members. The full Working Group has held one meeting but 
primarily conducts its work through smaller subgroups organized around the areas of expertise of 
its various members, for example, hospital administration, banking, and land use. Some of the 
subgroups have never formally met at all. Instead, these members perform their work, such as 
grassroots organizing and community engagement, independently. Another subgroup focused on 
collecting data with respect to emergency services has met only once or twice, with its members 
primarily performing their tasks independently and reporting data to the Town’s General 
Manager directly. The General Manager serves as the central individual organizing and 
facilitating the work of the Working Group, receiving data, information, and recommendations 
from the subgroups and individual members of the Working Group. One of the goals of the 
General Manager is to create a report, based on the information and recommendations from 
members of the Working Group, to be provided to the State. Ultimately, the Working Group’s 
purpose, through the General Manager, is to help find a new suitable operator for the hospital 
and support the operator as it seeks the necessary approvals from the State. 
 
 On several occasions, the General Manager updated the Board regarding the efforts of the 
Working Group and the progress being made. During these updates, Board members expressed 
interest in the progress being made, asked questions, and offered suggestions and support. 
However, the Board did not appear to direct the work of the Working Group, nor is there any 
evidence that the Board created the Working Group. Although the General Manager updated the 
Board regarding the Working Group, he did not seek the Board’s permission, nor did the Board 
grant permission, to take any particular action with respect to the Working Group and its efforts.
5 
Additionally, during the updates, the General Manager did not provide the Board with advisory 
opinions regarding a matter before the Board. Indeed, whether to authorize a new operator for 
the hospital is a decision made at the state-level.   
 
 
4 Norwood Hospital Working Group, Finish Norwood Hospital https://finishthejobnorwood.com/norwood-hos pital-
working-group/.  
5 During the Board’s February 25 meeting, the General Manager did request permission to hang a banner regarding 
the effort to reopen Norwood Hospital. However, we understand this request to have been made because of the 
Board’s role in approving signage in the Town, and not because the Working Group reported to the Board.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies. The Open Meeting Law defines 
“publi
c body,” in relevant part, as “a multiple member board, commission, committee or 
subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any county, district, city, 
region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve 
a public purpose[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Open Meeting Law defines “subcommittee” as 
including “any multiple-member body created to advise or make recommendations to a public 
body.” Id. For a multiple-member entity to be deemed a public body subject to the Open Meeting 
Law, it must satisfy three factors: 
 
1. The e
ntity must be “within” government and not excluded from the definition of 
“public body”; 
2. The entity must be a “body” empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a “public purpose.” 
 
See OML 2024-118; 2017-120; OML 2010-1.
6  
 
Here, we find that the Working Group is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting 
Law because it fails the second prong of the test as it is not a body empowered to act 
collectively. In the past, our office has declined to apply the Open Meeting Law to advisory 
groups that fail the second prong of the public body analysis. For example, we concluded that the 
Department of Early Education and Care Provider Working Team was not a public body for 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, even though it was “within government” and served a 
“public purpose,” because the group “has no quorum requirement - [staff] meet with and solicit 
feedback from whichever members show up to meetings.” OML 2011-42. Likewise, we 
concluded that the North Adams Airport Planning Advisory Committee was not a public body 
subject to the Open Meeting Law because the committee took no votes and issued no collective 
advisory opinion to the private company responsible for updating the airport’s master plan or to 
the Airport Commission. We found that, instead, the committee’s meetings were opportunities 
for members of the planning committee to efficiently provide their individual feedback and 
expertise regarding the airport’s master plan. OML 2022-54. Finally, we concluded that the 
Department of Environmental Protection’s Title 5/Groundwater Stakeholder Group was not a 
public body subject to the Open Meeting Law because the group “had no quorum requirement, 
meetings would proceed regardless of the number of attendees, and the Stakeholder Group did 
not take any votes.” OML 2023-231. 
 
Here, we find that the Working Group shares certain qualities with the groups discussed 
above. For example, although the Working Group has a set membership from which a quorum 
could be calculated, the Working Group did not hold formal meetings, instead individual 
members performed tasks and provided guidance to the General Manager on a mostly individual 
basis with some small subgroups occasionally meeting. The Working Group did not take formal 
votes or issue any formal advisory opinions but rather provided information to the General 
Manager with the ultimate goal of helping find and support a new operator for the shuttered 
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
hospital. For these reasons, we find that the Working Group fails the second prong of the public 
body analysis and is therefore not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law.7,8 As such, 
the Working Group cannot have violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Working Group is not a public body subject 
to the Open Meeting Law and therefore did not violate the Law. We now consider the complaint 
addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other 
complaints that may be pending with the with the Town or with our office. Please feel free to 
contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Tony Mazzucco, Norwood General Manager (via email: managers@norwoodma.gov)  
 Norwood Board of Selectmen (via email: selectmen@norwoodma.gov) 
MaryLou Folan, Norwood Town Clerk (via email: clerk@norwoodma.gov) 
David Groh (via email:  
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
7 Because we find that the Working Group fails the second prong of the public body analysis, we need to not 
consider whether it satisfies the first and third prongs, nor whether it falls within the exception to the definition of 
“public body” established in Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232, 235 (1991). 
8 Currently pending in the Legislature is An Act Establishing a Norwood Hospital Working Group, 2025 HB 2525. 
This determination does not address any working group that might be created under this act.    
