===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 7, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 91 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Ellen Doucette, Esq.  
Woburn City Solicitor  
City Hall, 10 Common Street 
Woburn, MA 01801 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Doucette: 
This office received four complaints from Jasmine Parthasarathy, one complaint from D. 
Andrews, two complaints from Dale Goldstein, and one complaint from Christine Kitowicz-
Anderson, filed between September 11, 2020, and January 21, 2021, alleging that the Woburn 
Public Library Board of Trustees (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Board between August 29 and December 
29.1 Because the complaints raise similar allegations, we resolve them jointly through this 
determination letter.  
 The complaints generally allege that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in several 
ways, including that the Board 1) failed to provide adequate alternative means of public access to 
remote meetings, 2) failed to vote by roll call during remote meetings, 3) did not allow public 
participation during a meeting, 4) posted a meeting notice that falsely promised that 
communications from the public would be considered at a meeting, 5) failed to approve meeting 
minutes in a timely manner, and 6) deliberated outside of a posted meeting.2  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 The Division’s jurisdiction is to enforce the Open Meeting Law; therefore, we decline to review any allegations of 
violations of laws other than the Open Meeting Law. We also do not review allegations made for the first time to our 
office in requests for further review that were not included in the original complaints filed with the public body. Our 
office does not conduct broad audits of public bodies and will address only specific allegations made in an Open 
Meeting Law complaint. See OML 2020-2; OML Declination 4-22-15 (Natick Economic Development Committee). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to provide adequate capacity for a September 10 remote meeting, failing to vote by roll call for 
all votes during the September 10 meeting, failing to timely approve several sets of meeting 
minutes, and by deliberating outside of a posted meeting. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s responses to the complaints, and the complainants’ 
requests for further review, including all attachments. We also reviewed meeting notices, 
meeting minutes, Woburn Library security camera footage, and recordings of relevant meetings. 
We emailed with the complainants on numerous occasions from November 2020 through June 
2021. Finally, we questioned the Board’s counsel via email on several occasions from March 
through May 2021. As explained below, the allegations in the complaints primarily pertain to 
seven of the Board’s nine members, all of whom resigned from their positions on the Board in 
February 2021. Due to these resignations, the evidence available during our investigation was at 
times limited. 
BACKGROUND 
The Board is a nine-member body; therefore, five members constitute a quorum. 
As a result of the COVID-19 novel coronavirus outbreak in the spring of 2020, the 
Woburn Library was closed to the public and there was uncertainty regarding municipal funding 
for the Library. Library Director Bonnie Roalsen proposed layoffs of significant numbers of 
library staff. The Library Director is subject to the direction of the Board, not the Woburn City 
Council. Seven members of the Board supported Ms. Roalsen’s plan for layoffs. Library staff 
resisted the cuts, asserting that other Woburn departments were not considering similar layoffs. 
In July 2020, the Board was warned by the Minuteman Library Network (“MLN”), of which the 
Woburn Public Library is a part, that the Woburn Public Library’s participation in the MLN was 
in jeopardy if a significant number of library staff members were cut. While public opposition to 
the staff cuts grew, the library re-opened on a limited basis in August 2020.  
During the fall of 2020, the public controversy surrounding the proposed staff cuts, the 
Library Director, and the Board continued to grow. That controversy is well-documented in local 
media coverage and is not fully recounted here. Between September 11, 2020, and January 21, 
2021, the complainants filed their Open Meeting Law complaints against the Board. The facts 
relating to each of these complaints are discussed in detail later in this determination.  
In late January 2021, Woburn Mayor Scott Galvin notified Board President Janet Rabbitt 
that he planned to remove her from her lifetime seat on the Board. In February 2021, seven 
members of the Board resigned from their positions, including Board President Rabbitt and 
Board members Judy Kelley, Carol Seitz, Mary Hines, Loretta Schuck, William Callahan and 
Kathryn Thifault. The Open Meeting Law complaints discussed in this determination largely are 
concerned with the actions of these seven members. Shortly thereafter, Library Director Bonnie 
Roalsen and Assistant Library Director Rebecca Meehan also resigned in solidarity with the 
Board.  
Only two Board Members, Richard Mahoney and Joanne McNamee, remained on the 
Board. As of June 2021, two new members, Emily Lipsett and Larry Rideout, have been added 
to the Board.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
“Adequate Alternative Means of Public Access” for Remote Meetings 
 On March 10, 2020, Governor Charles Baker declared a state of emergency in response 
to the outbreak of the Coronavirus (“COVID-19”). See Exec. Order No. 591 (Mar. 10, 2020). On 
March 12, Governor Baker issued an executive order temporarily suspending certain provisions 
of the Open Meeting Law during the state of emergency. See Order Suspending Certain 
Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”). 
The Executive Order temporarily suspends the requirements under the Open Meeting Law and 
the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations that 1) a quorum of a public body, 
including the chair, be physically present at the meeting location; and 2) meetings be held in 
locations that are physically accessible to the public. The Executive Order relieves a public body 
from the requirement of holding its meetings in locations that are physically accessible to the 
public only if the public body provides adequate, alternative means of public access. See OML 
2020-111.3  
 The Executive Order states that adequate, alternative means of public access means 
measures that provide transparency and permit timely and effective public access to the 
deliberations of the public body. Such measures may include, without limitation, providing 
public access through telephone, internet, or satellite enabled audio or video conferencing or any 
technology that enables the public to clearly follow the proceedings of the public body while 
those activities are occurring. Executive Order at § 1. Additionally, our office has published 
guidance explaining that “‘[a]dequate, alternative means of access’ could include Zoom, a high-
capacity telephone conference line, Facebook Live, YouTube Live, and broadcasting on live TV, 
including local cable access television.” See Attorney General’s Updated Guidance on Holding 
Meetings During the COVID-19 State of Emergency.4 
 For its September 10 meeting, the Board provided real time access for the public via the 
Zoom application. Ms. Andrews, in her September 11 complaint, alleged that the Board did not 
provide a phone number as an access option for the Board’s September 10 meeting “for those 
without access to a computer or smartphone.” We have stated that Zoom qualifies as an 
“adequate alternative means” under the Governor’s Executive Order for the public to attend 
remote meetings. See OML 2021-10; OML 2020-111. As the Board is not required to provide 
more than one means of adequate, alternative access, we find that the Board did not violate the 
Law where it chose to allow public access to its September 10 meeting only through the web-
based Zoom platform, without also providing access by telephone.  
Capacity Limits and Access to a Remote Meeting 
 Ms. Andrews and Ms. Goldstein, in their two September 11 complaints, alleged that all 
interested members of the public were not able to access the Board’s September 10 remote 
meeting, because the Board utilized a meeting platform that offered insufficient capacity. 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
4 The Attorney General’s Updated Guidance on Holding Meetings During the COVID-19 State of Emergency, 
updated June 2, 2020, is available here: https://www mass.gov/service-details/updated-guidance-on-holding-
meetings-during-the-covid-19-state-of-emergency. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Meetings of a public body must be open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21. Under Governor Baker’s Executive Order, public 
bodies are permitted to meet entirely remotely, provided that the public body provides adequate, 
alternative means of public access to the deliberations of the public body. As discussed above, 
“adequate, alternative means” may include, without limitation, providing public access through 
telephone, internet, or satellite enabled audio or video conferencing or any other technology that 
enables the public to clearly follow the proceedings of the public body in real time. For all 
meetings, whether held in person or remotely, public bodies must make reasonable 
accommodations for overflow crowds. See OML 2018-27; OML 2015-92; OML 2012-66.  
 The Board’s September 10 Annual Meeting was held entirely remotely via Zoom. The 
Board’s Zoom account had a meeting capacity limit of 100 participants, which included the nine 
Board members and three staff members. Public attendance at the September 10 meeting was 
higher than usual due to the ongoing and highly public controversy regarding the Library, and 
therefore the Zoom meeting reached capacity and some members of the public were not able to 
join the meeting. Once the Zoom meeting had reached capacity, some members of the public 
who had successfully joined the meeting held up signs by video indicating that other members of 
the public were not able to enter the meeting. Emails between counsel and library staff during the 
meeting make clear that staff members were aware fifteen minutes into the meeting that 
members of the public were holding up these signs.  
 In response to the complaint, the Board argues that the popularity of the meeting was 
unanticipated. We appreciate that it can be difficult for a public body to anticipate whether any 
given meeting will attract a crowd. See OML 2017-152; OML 2017-135. However, based on the 
substantial public scrutiny and controversy surrounding the Library over the summer, we find 
that it was foreseeable that the 100-participant limit would be insufficient for the Board’s 
September 10 meeting. Furthermore, as the Board made no effort to address the capacity issue 
during the meeting, nor did the Board cancel and reschedule the meeting to another date when it 
could arrange to use a higher capacity platform, we find that the Board did not make reasonable 
efforts to accommodate the larger-than-usual attendance. We therefore find that the Board’s 
September 10 meeting was not accessible to the public, in violation of the Open Meeting Law. In 
response to the Open Meeting Law complaints, the Board increased its Zoom capacity for future 
meetings and held a new vote regarding the officers for the Woburn Public Library Corporation 
at a subsequent meeting on September 29. We find this remedial action to be adequate and order 
no further relief with respect to this allegation.  
Roll Call Voting in Remote Meetings 
 Ms. Goldstein and Ms. Andrews, in their September 11 complaints, allege that Board did 
not take all votes by roll call during its September 10 meeting. The Executive Order temporarily 
suspends the requirements under the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s Open 
Meeting Law regulations that a quorum of a public body, including the chair, be physically 
present at the meeting location and allows all members of a public body to participate in a 
meeting remotely. All other provisions of the Law and regulations regarding remote participation 
remain in effect. See OML 2020-168. This includes the requirement that “[a]ll votes taken during 
any meeting in which a member participates remotely must be by roll call vote.” 940 CMR 
29.10(7)(c).  
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 During the Board’s September 10 meeting, the Board voted to elect several officers of the 
Library Corporation, including a chairman pro tem, president, vice president, comptroller, clerk, 
and treasurer. In order to make these elections, the Board voted to open nominations for each 
position with a voice vote, nominations were accepted and then a roll call vote was taken to elect 
each officer. At the end of the meeting, the Board voted to adjourn by voice vote. The voice 
votes did not comply with the regulation regarding roll call votes, since no roll of names was 
called. See OML 2021-2. As the Board did not take all votes during the September 10 meeting 
by roll call, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged.  
Public Participation 
 Ms. Anderson, in her September 11 complaint, also allege that, at the Board’s September 
10 meeting, “[t]he microphones of non-board members were muted” during the meeting such 
that members of the public could not participate in the meeting. Ms. Goldstein, in her September 
11 complaint, also alleged that the Board disabled the chat feature in Zoom during the September 
10 meeting, further reducing the public’s ability to communicate with the Board. The Open 
Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow public participation, but rather provides 
that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and 
all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.” G.L. c. 30A § 20(f). As such, the Law 
gives the chair of the public body discretion to decide whether to permit public comment during 
a meeting. See OML 2020-20; OML 2017-189. As the Open Meeting Law leaves public 
participation to the discretion of the public body’s chair, we find that the Board did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law where the Board did not allow members of the public to speak or 
communicate using the chat function during a September 10 meeting. See OML 2021-15. 
Nevertheless, the Attorney General encourages public bodies to allow public participation during 
meetings to the extent time and circumstances permit. See OML 2018-27; OML 2015-12.  
 In addition, Ms. Goldstein, in her November 30 complaint, alleged that the Board did not 
allow public participation via written submission for a November 12 meeting, as the Board had 
indicated on the meeting notice. The Board’s notice for the November 12 meeting contained a 
topic, “communications.” Ms. Goldstein sent an email to the Board before the meeting with a 
request that her email be read into the record, as the Woburn City Council had done with Ms. 
Goldstein’s communications at prior City Council meetings. However, when the Board reached 
the topic of “communications,” the Board stated that there were no communications to report. 
Although the Board’s meeting notice appeared to invite communications from the public, we do 
not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law where the Board chose not to read such 
communications, because whether to accept public comment during a public body’s meeting, and 
the manner in which to do so, is within the discretion of the chair. Furthermore, a public body is 
not required to discuss every topic that is listed on the meeting notice. See OML 2015-174 (“The 
law does not prohibit a public body from removing, postponing, or declining to discuss a topic 
listed on a meeting notice.”) 
Timely Approval of Meeting Minutes 
 Ms. Parthasarathy, in her October 9 complaint, alleged that the Board failed to timely 
approve meeting minutes in the first half of 2020. The Open Meeting Law requires that 
“[m]inutes of all open sessions shall be created and approved in a timely manner.” G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(c). The Law itself does not define “timely manner.” However, the Attorney General’s Open 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
Meeting Law regulations provide that “timely manner” means “within the next three public body 
meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for 
further delay.” 940 CMR 29.11 (2).  
 The Board acknowledges, and we agree, that the Board violated the Law where it did not 
approve the minutes of the January 7, February 4, March 3, April 7, May 5, June 2, and June 16 
meetings until November 12, well past the 30 day or three meeting timeframe allowed under the 
regulations. In addition, as of March 8, 2021, the Board had not approved the minutes of its 
December 3, 2019, meeting. For these reasons, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to approve meeting minutes in a timely manner.  
Deliberation Outside of a Posted Meeting  
 The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body 
with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law defines 
“deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; 
provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, 
scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports 
or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed.” Id. A one-way communication from one public body member to a quorum on 
business within a body’s jurisdiction is deliberation, even if no other members respond. See 
OML 2020-136; OML 2019-144.5 The Open Meeting Law does not carve out an exception to the 
definition of “deliberation” for discussions that do not result in a decision or vote. See OML 
2020-93. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the 
members of a public body. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Board is a nine-member public body, thus five 
members constitute a quorum. 
 As described below, Ms. Anderson, Ms. Parthasarathy and Ms. Kitowicz-Anderson  
allege in their complaints many instances of the Board deliberating outside of a posted meeting. 
We address each allegation in turn.  
1. October 2, 2020, Unposted Meeting 
 As alleged by Ms. Parthasarathy in her December 29 complaint and confirmed by the 
Board, members of the Board called a Special Meeting on October 2 during an intermission of 
the Library Director’s External Communication Committee meeting. The meeting lasted 
approximately 10 minutes. Three members of the Board were physically present at the Woburn 
Public Library, while three other members called into the Special Meeting by phone. Since six 
members of the Board participated in the meeting, more than a quorum of the Board participated 
in this discussion. The purpose of the Special Meeting was to authorize payment to Melwood 
Global for $5,000 for public relations services regarding the Library’s Strategic Plan 2017-2020. 
The Board briefly discussed the invoice and then authorized payment. This discussion involved a 
 
5 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
topic that is clearly a matter within the Board’s jurisdiction. Since no meeting notice was posted 
for this meeting, we find that the Board deliberated outside of a posted meeting, in violation of 
the Open Meeting Law.  
2. October 5, 2020, Unposted Meeting  
 During our investigation, we found evidence of a second unposted meeting. On 
September 15, 2020, during a properly posted meeting, Member Callahan suggested that the 
Board retain its own legal counsel to represent the Board. Member Kelley and Member Seitz 
spoke in favor of the idea. Member Callahan then made a motion, seconded by Member Kelley, 
that Board President Janet Rabbitt and Legal Committee Chair, Member Kelley, should research 
the idea and bring their findings back to the Board. Seven Board members voted to approve the 
motion, with Member Mahoney and Member McNamee abstaining. This matter was not 
mentioned again in a posted meeting until January 19, 2021.  
 However, President Rabbitt and Member Kelley apparently researched potential attorneys 
after the September 15 meeting, as evidenced by a video of the Board’s January 19, 2021, 
meeting. Near the beginning of the January 19, 2021, meeting video, President Rabbitt 
announced that she had spoken with a private attorney regarding an Open Meeting Law 
complaint. Two Board members, Richard Mahoney and Joanne McNamee, asked President 
Rabbitt who the attorney was. President Rabbitt explained that she had consulted a private 
attorney, and that the Board would retain this attorney going forward. Member McNamee then 
asked if the Board had voted to retain that particular attorney. President Rabbitt responded that a 
quorum had voted to authorize the representation, but asserted that she could not remember the 
date of the meeting. When Member McNamee stated she had not been told about the meeting, 
President Rabbitt said she had not invited Members Mahoney and McNamee because she 
believed they were busy with “other commitments” at the time the meeting was held, which 
Members Mahoney and McNamee disputed. The Board’s counsel informs us that President 
Rabbitt was likely referring to an October 5, 2020, meeting in the Library Director’s Office. No 
notice was posted for this meeting, nor were meeting minutes created or approved. As no notice 
was posted for the October 5, 2020, meeting, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by deliberating outside of a posted meeting.    
3. August 26, 2020, Archives Site Visit 
 Ms. Kitowicz-Anderson in her September 11 complaint, and Ms. Parthasarathy in her 
September 14 complaint, allege that the Board deliberated outside of a posted meeting on August 
26 as five members of the Board, along with Library staff, were present at the Library around the 
same time. The Board asserts that the five members were conducting a site visit of the Library’s 
archives and did not deliberate during the site visit. The Open Meeting Law defines “meeting” 
as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction; 
provided however, ‘meeting’ shall not include: (a) an on-site inspection of a project or program, 
so long as the members do not deliberate...” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. In order to conduct an on-site 
inspection in compliance with the Open Meeting Law, a public body has three options: (1) post 
notice of an inspection as a “meeting,” if the property is accessible to everyone, including 
members of the public; (2) visit the property as individuals or in groups that constitute less than a 
quorum so as to avoid deliberation among a quorum; or (3) visit the property as a quorum, but 
refrain from asking any questions of staff at the site or otherwise discussing any matters within 
===PAGE 8===
8 
 
the public body’s jurisdiction until the public body convenes in a properly noticed meeting. See 
OML 2018-57; OML 2017-44.  
 Regarding the alleged August 26 meeting, security footage received by Ms. Parthasarathy 
in response to a public records request shows that the Board was careful to make sure there was 
never a quorum in the Library archives at any one time. Three Board members, William 
Callahan, Carol Seitz, Mary Hines, arrived first and appeared to listen to a presentation from the 
Archivist. They were joined shortly after by Member Loretta Schuck. After about 20 minutes of 
presentation, Member Kelley appeared outside the glass door to the archives, but Member Seitz 
indicated that she should not enter as there were already four members present. Member Kelley 
did not enter. We find no evidence that the Board deliberated during this on-site inspection, and 
therefore the Board was not required to post notice of the on-site inspection and did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law in this respect.6  
 Ms. Kitowicz-Anderson, in her September 11 complaint, and Ms. Parthasarathy in her 
September 14 complaint, also allege that members of the Board used their August 26 archive 
visits to discuss, in a serial manner, replacing Richard Mahoney as President. The vote to replace 
then-President Mahoney with Member Rabbitt took place shortly thereafter during the Board’s 
September 10 meeting. A public body may not engage in a serial communication whereby a 
quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a particular 
subject matter within the public body’s jurisdiction. See OML 2015-3; OML 2012-84; OML 
2011-27; McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that private serial 
communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to circumvent 
the intent of the Law).  
 Here, the five Board members who were present at the Library on August 26 certainly 
could have discussed Board business, in sub-quorum conversations, in either the hallways of the 
Library or with the Library Director in her office.7 Security footage shows that the Board 
members held several conversations with each other, though all five members did not speak 
together at one time. Because the security footage does not contain audio recordings, and the five 
Board members who attended the archives inspection all subsequently resigned from the Board, 
we did not ascertain what the Board members spoke about during these sub-quorum 
conversations and whether they deliberated in a serial manner. The coordinated manner in which 
five Board members convened at the Library that day, especially in light of the ongoing public 
controversy and the divide within the Board, certainly lent an appearance of impropriety. 
However, as we find no specific evidence of serial deliberation, we do not find a violation of the 
Open Meeting Law related to the August 26 archives visit.  
4. Scheduling Emails and Distribution of Documents Ahead of a Meeting 
 In the course of our investigation, we reviewed many emails exchanged between Board 
members during the period July through October 2020, which Ms. Parthasarathy received in 
 
6 Board Member Callahan stated at the Board’s September 15 meeting that the conversation while he was in the 
room included the re-opening of the library, which was clearly a topic within the Board’s jurisdiction. 
7 We take this opportunity to remind the Board that communications regarding matters such as the organization and 
leadership of the public body, committee assignments, and rules or bylaws for the body constitute matters within the 
public body’s jurisdiction and should not be discussed by email or otherwise outside of a posted meeting. See OML 
2018-9; OML 2011-38. 
===PAGE 9===
9 
 
response to public records requests. Ms. Parthasarathy alleged that these emails reflect Board 
deliberation outside of a properly posted meeting.  
 There are several exceptions to the definition of deliberation, which are construed 
narrowly. See OML 2016-172; OML 2014-51. For example, deliberation does not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda or scheduling information. See OML 2015-69. Therefore, the 
Board emails we reviewed which merely relate to scheduling meetings are not deliberations 
under the Open Meeting Law. We also reviewed emails which distributed attached documents to 
Board members ahead of a meeting, but these documents contain no opinions of Board members 
and therefore we find that they are also not deliberations for purposes of the Open Meeting Law.8 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (“ ‘deliberation’ shall not include … the distribution of reports or documents 
that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.”). 
5. Letters to the Editor and Minuteman Library Network Letter 
  Finally, Ms. Parthasarathy, in her August 29 and December 29 complaints, alleged that a 
quorum of the Board coordinated outside of a posted meeting to submit nearly identical letters to 
the editor of the Woburn Daily Times Chronicle. As discussed above, public body members may 
not circulate documents outside of a meeting which contain a member’s opinions on public body 
business. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. In particular, the Open Meeting Law does not permit public body 
members to engage in serial deliberations through a staff member or other individual to 
circumvent the prohibition on deliberation outside of a meeting. See OML 2020-53; OML 2018-
49. For example, the Supreme Judicial Court held that the distribution of an aggregated 
employment review prior to a meeting violated the Open Meeting Law. See Boelter v. Board of 
Selectmen of Wayland, 479 Mass. 233 (2018). In that case, public body members submitted 
performance evaluations to its chair, who then aggregated the individual evaluations into a single 
document that was distributed in advance of a noticed meeting. Id. at 235-36. In holding that this 
practice violated the Open Meeting Law, the court stated that “the effect of the circulation of the 
individual and composite evaluations was that all five board members were aware of the 
opinions of four of the members in advance of the open meeting; thus, the circulation, in effect, 
constituted a deliberation, or a meeting, to which the public did not have access.” Id. at 243.  
 On July 8, Member Rabbitt received from the Minuteman Library Network, of which the 
Woburn Public Library is a part, a cautionary letter about Library Director Bonnie Roalsen’s 
proposed layoffs and furloughs of Library staff. The MLN Board of Directors made clear that the 
Woburn Public Library’s participation in the MLN was in jeopardy if a significant number of 
library staff members were dismissed. On July 10, Ms. Roalsen sent a draft response letter to 
Board Member Judy Kelley. This email was not deliberation because Ms. Roaslsen was not a 
Board member. Soon afterwards, Member Kelley sent a minor punctuation suggestion back to 
Ms. Roalsen and expressed her general support of the tone and contents of the letter. This email 
was also not deliberation, because there was no quorum of the Board copied on the email. On 
July 12, Ms. Roalsen sent a final draft of the response letter to five members of the Board, a 
quorum. However, Ms. Roalsen did not adopt Ms. Kelley’s punctuation suggestion or indicate in 
any way that she had consulted Ms. Kelley or that Ms. Kelley approved of the letter. We also 
 
8 We also note that President Rabbitt’s alleged failure to consult two Board members regarding the scheduling of the 
September 10, 2020, Board meeting would not violate the Open Meeting Law, though we note our concern that  
President Rabbitt failed to consult all Board members when scheduling future meetings on multiple occasions. 
===PAGE 10===
10 
 
find no indication that Ms. Kelley intended for Ms. Roalsen to convey her input or views to the 
other Board members. We therefore find that neither Ms. Roalsen’s July 12 email, nor the 
attached final draft of the response letter, shared an opinion of a Board member with a quorum of 
the Board. Thus, Ms. Roalsens’ email circulating the final draft of the response letter to the MLN 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2018-134.  
 Regarding the letters to the editor, from July 9 through July 13, the Daily Times 
Chronicle published letters to the editor written by four Board members, Carol Seitz, Janet 
Rabbitt, Mary Hines and Judith Kelley. These letters, which supported Ms. Roalsen’s leadership 
at the Library, contained some distinctive phrases and several full sentences that were identical 
to language in Ms. Roalsen’s response letter to MLN. Emails we reviewed demonstrate that Ms. 
Roalsen coordinated individually with Member Kelley on the draft of Ms. Kelley’s letter to the 
editor, starting even before the cautionary letter from MLN was received. Though the similarity 
between the four Board members’ letters to the editor and the MLN response letter certainly 
created an appearance of coordination outside of a posted meeting, we do not find any evidence 
that the four Board members communicated with a quorum of the Board outside of a posted 
meeting about their letters. For this reason, we do not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law 
regarding the four Board members’ letters to the editor. 
 Intentional Violations: The Board’s Secret Meetings 
 Finally, we must determine whether the Board’s violations were, as the complainants 
urge, intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a 
public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 
29.02. An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate 
ignorance of the Law’s requirements or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates 
the Open Meeting Law. Id.  
 Although our investigation revealed many concerning actions taken by the Board, we 
find the Board’s two secret meetings—on October 2, 2020, when six members of the Board 
approved hiring and paying a public relations firm, and October 5, 2020, when at least a quorum 
of the Board approved hiring outside legal counsel—to be particularly egregious. Both meetings 
were held behind closed doors, without posting notice, and were only acknowledged to the 
public after the fact. Even if the Board held these meetings in secret in order to exclude Board 
Members Mahoney and McNamee from votes that President Rabbitt knew those two members 
would oppose, the effect of this secrecy was to conceal the meetings from the public as well. To 
convene a secret meeting as took place here is, if not an action taken with specific intent to 
violate the Open Meeting Law, then at the very least an action taken with deliberate ignorance of 
the Law’s requirements. There is no more basic requirement of the Open Meeting Law than that 
meetings of public bodies be open to the public. Therefore, we find that the Board intentionally 
violated the Open Meeting Law by denying the public access to, or even knowledge of, its 
October 2 and 5, 2020, meetings. However, as the only still-serving Board members did not 
participate in these egregious unposted meetings, we do not order the Board to pay the civil 
penalty which the Attorney General may impose when an intentional violation is found. See G.L. 
c. 30A, § 23(c)(4); 940 CMR 29.07(3)(d). 
 
===PAGE 11===
11 
 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to provide adequate capacity for a September 10 meeting, failing to vote by roll call for 
all votes during the September 10 meeting, failing to timely approve several sets of meeting 
minutes, and by deliberating outside of a posted meeting. We order the Board’s immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar violations in the future 
may result in the imposition of a civil penalty. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c)(4); 940 CMR 29.07(3)(d). 
 In light of the number and breadth of violations found here, and with the 
acknowledgment that the presently-serving members of the Board did not engage in some of the 
unlawful conduct that we find, we order all current Board members to attend an Open Meeting 
Law webinar training presented by our office within ninety (90) days of the Board’s receipt of 
this letter and to certify to our office that they have done so within ninety-five (95) days of 
receipt of this letter. We strongly recommend that any future Board members who may be 
elected or appointed to fill the current vacancies on the Board attend an Open Meeting Law 
webinar training as well.  
 Finally, we order the Board to approve meeting minutes, to the extent it is able to do so 
and to the best of its ability based on available notes, recollections, and/or other records, for its 
December 3, 2019, October 2, 2020, and October 5, 2020, meetings within thirty (30) days of 
receipt of this letter if it has not already done so, and make those minutes available to the public.   
 We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Jasmine Parthasarathy (via e-mail:  
 D. Andrews (via e-mail:  
 Dale Goldstein (via e-mail:  
 Christine Kitowicz-Anderson (via e-mail:  
 
 Woburn Public Library Board of Trustees, c/o Interim Library Director James Flaherty
 (via e-mail:  
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 12===
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 