===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 16, 2017 
OML 2017-98 
Winchester School Committee 
c/o Dr. Judith Evans, Superintendent 
40 Samoset Road 
Winchester, MA 01890 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Dr. Evans: 
This office received two complaints from Claire Barden on April 10 and April 24, 
respectively, alleging that the Winchester School Committee (the "Committee") violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaints were originally filed with the 
Committee on or about March 8 and March 23, and you responded, on behalf of the 
Committee, by letters dated March 23.2 In her complaints, Ms. Barden alleges that the notice 
for the Committee's February 28 meeting failed to include any topics and was posted in a 
location that was not available to the public at all hours of the day. Ms. Barden also alleges 
that this notice failed to conspicuously record the date and time that it was posted. 
Additionally, Ms. Barden alleges that the Committee failed to timely publish documents and 
exhibits used during that meeting. Finally, Ms. Barden alleges that the Committee failed to 
timely publish minutes from its 2017 meetings. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to properly post notice of its February 28 meeting and by failing to conspicuously 
record the date and time of its posting. We find no violation, however, for the Committee's 
failure to publish minutes and/or documents used during that meeting. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the original and revised notice and minutes of the Committee's February 28 
meeting. Finally, we spoke with you on April 13 and May 9 and we spoke with the town 
clerk on May 16.3 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017. 
2 The date of the Committee's response to the March 23 complaint is incorrect. The Committee discussed this 
complaint during its April 4 meeting and sent its response to the complainant the following day. 
3 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
Cs 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On March 23, the Town notified our office that it had 
adopted its website as the official notice posting location. Prior to March 23, the Town had 
posted notices on a bulletin board at Town Hall which was only available to the public during 
business hours.4 The town clerk had also posted notice of meetings of certain public bodies, 
including those of the Committee, on the Town website. 
The complaint concerned the Committee's discussion and vote to adopt full-day 
kindergarten during its February 28 meeting. This topic had also been discussed during prior 
meetings. Several weeks before the meeting, the Committee posted a preliminary notice of 
the meeting on the bulletin board at Town Hall which included the date, time and location of 
the meeting, but did not include any discussion topics or the date and time that it was posted. 
On February 17, the Committee submitted a revised notice to the town clerk that included the 
discussion topics and was date-stamped but, unbeknownst to the Committee until this 
complaint was filed, that notice was never posted on the bulletin board, though it was posted 
on the School District's website. The notice was also added to the Town website on February 
17, however the meeting date was incorrect until the day before the meeting. The Committee 
held the meeting as planned during which it voted to implement a five-day all-day 
Kindergarten program for the 2017-2018 school year and pursue "a free option through Town 
Meeting's support of a warrant article for supplemental funding for the tuition-free program." 
A warrant article was prepared for an upcoming Town Meeting on May 1. The meeting 
minutes, approved on April 4, list the documents used during the meeting, including various 
documents used during the Committee's consideration of this topic. 
In response to the complaint, the Committee held a meeting on April 25 to remedy the 
notice posting error.5 The notice listed this topic as, "Transition to Full-Day Kindergarten: 
Discussion/Vote on Town Meeting Warrant." During this meeting, the Committee re-voted 
and approved an all-day Kindergarten program, with a free option conditioned on Town 
Meeting's approval of funding. District Superintendent Dr. Judith Evans then outlined the 
reasons for adopting the program. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice of a meeting at least 48 
hours in advance of a meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The Open Meeting Law requires that 
the municipal clerk post notice of meetings in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at 
all hours in or on the municipal building in which the clerk's office is located. G.L. c. 30A, § 
4 Town Hall is generally open Monday through Thursday from 7:30 A.M. to 10:30 P.M. and Friday from 7:30 
A.M. through 3:00 P.M. 
5 Additionally, leading up to Town Meeting on May 1, the Committee notified the Town Moderator about the 
pending Open Meeting Law complaints and the notice posting issues surrounding its vote to approve full-day 
kindergarten. During Town Meeting, the Moderator mentioned the complaints, explaining that the chair had 
determined that there was "no substantive issue or no reason why the matter hasn't been appropriately presented 
to the meeting." The vote to approve the warrant article passed. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
20(c). If such notice is not conspicuously visible to the public during hours when the clerk's 
office is closed, such notice shall also be made available through one of the alternative 
methods approved by the Attorney General under 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b), such as a website. A 
description of such alternative method shall be posted in a manner conspicuously visible to 
the public at all hours on or adjacent to the main and handicapped accessible entrances to the 
municipal building in which the clerk's office is located. 940 CMR 29.03(1). The date and 
time that the notice is posted must be conspicuously recorded thereon or therewith. 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b). 
The complaints allege that the Committee's February 28 meeting notice failed to list 
any discussion topics. The complaints also allege that the notice was posted in a location that 
was not available to the public 24 hours a day and did not include the date and time that it was 
posted. We agree and find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. The only 
version of the notice posted on bulletin board—the Town's official notice posting location at 
the time—was the preliminary notice which did not include a list of anticipated discussion 
topics or the date and time that the town clerk posted it. See 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b) ("[t]he 
date and time that the notice is posted shall be conspicuously recorded thereon or therewith"); 
OML 2016-173.6 Although the town clerk date-stamped a revised notice on February 17 that 
did include a list of topics, that version was never posted on the bulletin board. In any event, 
as the Committee acknowledges, the bulletin board at Town Hall did not comply with the 
Open Meeting Law's requirement that notices be posted in a manner conspicuously visible to 
the public 24 hours a day. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(c); OML 2017-7. 
We commend the Committee for its remedial efforts. We also commend the Committee and 
the town clerk for taking steps to ensure compliance with the law's notice posting 
requirements by adopting the Town website as the official notice posting location. 
The complaints also allege that the Committee failed to timely publish documents 
used during the February 28 meeting as well as minutes from meetings held in 2017. The 
Open Meeting Law does not require the publication of minutes or documents used during a 
meeting.7 See OML 2017-25; OML 2016-17. Rather, the law requires that they be created 
and approved in a "timely manner." See G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(a), (c). Although the Open 
Meeting Law does not define "timely manner," we recommend that minutes of a meeting be 
approved at the next meeting, whenever possible. See OML 2017-71; 2014-15. For bodies 
that meet regularly—that is, either weekly or bimonthly—we have concluded that a delay of 
two to three months in approving minutes does not comply with the law. See OML 2017-71; 
OML 2016-118. The Committee met twice in March before approving the February 28 
meeting minutes on April 4. We find this to be an appropriate amount of time for approving 
those minutes and therefore find no violation. See OML 2017-25; OML 2016-62. We note 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website; 
www. mass .gov/ago/openmeeting. 
7 We note that, effective January 1, 2017, the Office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth requires that a 
municipal public records officer, to the extent feasible, post commonly available public record documents on a 
municipal website. See 950 CMR 32.04(5)(g). For assistance complying with the requirements of the Public 
Records Law, the Committee may contact the Supervisor of Records at the Secretary's office. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
that anyone can request a copy of open session minutes from the Committee, which must be 
provided if they exist, whether in draft or final form, within 10 days.8 G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to properly post notice of its February 28 meeting and by failing to 
conspicuously record the date and time of its posting. We order the Committee's immediate 
and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar future 
violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Claire Barden 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
8 Furthermore, the Open Meeting Law provides that any documents and exhibits "used" during a meeting are 
public in their entirety and not exempt from disclosure under the Public Records Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e). 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
4 