===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 25, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 65 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Keith Bona 
Councilor, City of North Adams  
kbona@northadams-ma.gov 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Councilor Bona: 
This office received a complaint from Marie Harpin on January 13, 2023, alleging that 
the North Adams City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 21, 2022, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated December 12, 2022. The complaint alleges that 
that the Council deliberated outside of a posted meeting via email on November 18, 2022.
1 
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a posted meeting via email. In reaching this determination, we reviewed 
the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for 
further review.  
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On November 18, Councilor Keith Bona sent the following 
email to all the members of the Council, constituting a quorum: 
Received this message this morning. I wanted to pass along. From David Carver / 
Scarafoni Associates. They own much if not more residential property than 
commercial, but here are his thoughts. He brings up a good example. They own 
the Brien Center Building. At some point the taxes may not make it worth 
keeping if they don’t make enough profit. Tenants can only afford so much which 
absorbing taxes is part of their expense. If owner can’t keep tenant, non-profit will 
find it less expensive to buy the property vs rent. Recently we saw ROOTs go 
from renting a commercial space on Eagle St to ownership of the Nassifs 
Building, Williamstown Theater Fest went from renting commercial space in the 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Blacknton Mill to buying the Price Chopper, Brien Ctr could find it more 
affordable buying the former Transcript Building vs renting it which would 
automatically eliminate all the taxes from it. - Keith 
________________ 
From David Carver, 
Looks like you achieved a compromise and also shed light on the issue. It is an 
important one for everyone to understand. 
Any community is a combination of business and residential and a healthy one is 
helped by a fair tax rate for both sides. If the business side is overtaxed and 
shrinks it’s not a good thing for jobs, investment, and blight and ultimately that 
lost revenue will get shifted to the remaining residential so over time it’s 
important to strike the right balance. 
A high rate also pushes non profits to buy commercial properties taking them off 
the tax roles further eroding revenues. 
To exaggerate to make the point… if a tax rate is 100 percent of your income you 
collect zero because no one will operate and if it’s zero there is also no revenue… 
there is a mathematical tax rate that will maximize revenue and support a stable 
economy. 
All the studies done on tax classification indicate a maximum shift is detrimental 
over time… but the damage accumulates slowly… look back over last forty years 
and look at loss of revenue from commercial and dramatic rise in non profit 
ownership. - David 
The municipal tax classification issue was pending before the Council and scheduled for 
discussion during the Council’s November 9 and November 22 meetings. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-
(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, 
however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling 
information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or 
documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (emphasis added). For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a 
quorum is “a simple majority of the members of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A one-way 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
communication from one public body member to a quorum on business within a body’s 
jurisdiction is deliberation, even if no other members respond. See OML 2020-136.2 
 
 The complaint alleges that Councilor Bona engaged in improper deliberation when he 
forwarded an email from a local real estate developer to all the members of the Council and also 
added his own commentary. Councilor Bona denies that any improper deliberation occurred, and 
asserts that he was passing on “facts” and the developer’s opinions that had been relayed in “past 
meetings, email, and a phone call that day,” but not his own opinions. We find his argument 
unavailing. There are several exemptions to the definition of deliberation, which are construed 
narrowly. See OML 2016-172; OML 2014-51. For example, deliberation does not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information, or distribution of reports or documents 
that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed. See 
OML 2015-69. We find that Councilor Bona’s email, and specifically his statements to all the 
members of the Council when he forwarded the developer’s email, did not fit within any of the 
exemptions to the definition of deliberation. To the extent that the Councilor argues that his 
remarks were merely “facts,” the Law’s definition of “deliberation” is not limited to opinion or 
decision-making communications and includes updates on matters to be discussed by the public 
body or matters that had previously been discussed by the public body and are still pending 
before it. See OML 2018-9; OML 2015-3. Therefore, we conclude that the email constituted 
impermissible deliberation outside of a posted meeting. We credit the Council for reading the 
email at the subsequent public meeting to remedy the violation. 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a posted meeting via email. We order the Council’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Council that a determination by our 
office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
Open Meeting Law. As the Council discussed the substance of the email publicly at its 
subsequent meeting, we order no further relief. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Mary L. Nguyen 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Marie Harpin, Councilor (via e-mail: marie.harpin@northadams-ma.gov) 
 Tina Leonesio, Assistant City Clerk (via e-mail: city_clerk@northadams-ma.gov) 
North Adams Town Clerk (via e-mail: cking@northadams-ma.gov and 
dpedercini@northadams-ma.gov) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
