===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 5, 2017 
OML 2017-1 
Bruce Assad, Esq. 
16 Bedford Street, Suite 6A 
Fall River, MA 02722 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Assad: 
This office received a complaint from Meg Mayo-Brown, dated September 29, alleging 
that the Fall River School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 3OA, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on June 17, and the 
Committee responded by letter dated July 8. In her complaint, Ms. Mayo-Brown alleges that the 
Committee failed to list an anticipated discussion topic on a meeting notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response, and 
the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice of a Committee 
meeting held on June 13. Finally, we spoke with the Committee's legal counsel by telephone on 
December 20.2 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a seven-member public body, thus four 
members constitute a quorum. The complainant was, until June 30, the Superintendent of the 
Fall River School System. The complaint concerns an action taken by the Committee to freeze 
hiring for education administrators. 
On June 7, the complainant encountered the Committee chair at a funeral. The two 
spoke, and the chair stated that a Committee member, Paul Coogan, intended to make a motion 
at an upcoming Committee meeting to freeze hiring for education administrators. That evening, 
the Committee held a meeting, though no one raised the motion of which the chair had spoken. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
On June 9, the Committee posted notice of a meeting to be held on June 13. Among 
other anticipated topics, the notice listed, "New Business: Topics for discussion that could not 
reasonably be anticipated by the Chairman forty-eight (48) hours prior to the meeting." The 
notice did not list the matter of the hiring freeze. The Committee held its June 13 meeting as 
planned. Just before the meeting began, Mr. Coogan approached the Committee chair and the 
Committee's legal counsel, asking if the issue of the hiring freeze could be raised during the 
meeting, as it was not listed on the notice. The chair stated that he had no prior notice that Mr. 
Coogan intended to raise the issue during the June 13 meeting. The Committee's legal counsel 
advised that, because the chair did not anticipate raising the issue of the hiring freeze at least 48 
hours prior to that particular meeting, it could be raised during the "New Business" portion of the 
agenda. Ultimately, Mr. Coogan made the motion during the June 13 meeting, and the 
Committee approved the motion by a 5-2 vote. 
DISCUSSION 
Under the Open Meeting Law, a public body must post notice of a meeting at least 48 
hours in advance, including a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics on a 
notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2014-47.3 While public bodies may discuss a topic 
not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of 
the meeting, we encourage public bodies to postpone discussion of such topics until proper 
notice can be given to the public. See OML 2013-87; OML 2013-13. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the administrative hiring freeze was reasonably 
anticipated by the chair at least 48 hours prior to the meeting, and it should therefore have been 
listed on the meeting notice. As evidence, the complaint points to the June 7 conversation during 
which the chair stated that he was aware that Mr. Coogan intended to make the motion. 
However, the chair did not state that he had knowledge Mr. Coogan intended to make the motion 
at any particular meeting. The Committee's response states that the chair had no knowledge, 
until Mr. Coogan raised the issue immediately prior to the June 13 meeting, that Mr. Coogan 
intended to raise the issue during that meeting. Absent evidence to the contrary, we credit the 
public body's version of the facts. See OML 2013-174; OML 2011-44. Accordingly, we find 
that the chair did not anticipate discussing the issue of the hiring freeze during the June 13 
meeting, and we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to 
this allegation. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
cc: Fall River School Committee 
Meg Mayo-Brown 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Ma»ganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c, 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 