===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
January 25, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 8 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Felicia Vasudevan, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane LLP 
300 Crown Colony Drive # 410 
Quincy, MA 02169 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Vasudevan: 
This office received two complaints from Bruce Friedman on July 8 and October 20, 
2021, alleging that the Malden School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Committee on June 7 
and June 23, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by two letters dated July 6.1 In his 
complaints, Mr. Freidman alleges that the Committee 1) failed to periodically review its 
outstanding executive session minutes for possible release to the public, and 2) failed to describe 
executive sessions on certain meeting notices and during the announcement prior to executive 
session with sufficient detail.2, 3 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
providing insufficient detail about one executive session topic and by failing to periodically 
review its outstanding executive session minutes for possible release to the public. In reaching 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 The complaints contain allegations that the Committee did not include sufficient detail on meeting notices 
regarding executive sessions dating back to 2016. The allegations do not allege wrongdoing by the Committee on a 
specific date; rather they constitute general allegations about the Committee’s practices. Accordingly, we decline to 
review these allegations because our office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized 
allegations. See OML Declination 4-22-15 (Natick Economic Development Advisory Committee).  
3 Mr. Freidman also alleges that the Committee did not identify the individuals who would participate in an 
executive session. We note that, even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. Accordingly, we decline to review this allegation. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority 
Board of Commissioners). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Committee’s responses to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s requests for further review. We also reviewed the meeting 
notices of the Committee’s June 7 and July 1 meetings. Finally, we communicated by email with 
Attorney Vasudevan in November of 2021 and spoke with her by phone on November 12.4  
DISCUSSION 
1. The Committee’s June 7 meeting notice was insufficiently specific with respect to one 
executive session item.  
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Commission of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session 
for any of ten enumerated purposes, provided that the chair of the public body first announces in 
open session the purpose for the executive session, “stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.” See G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 
Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is 
necessary ... because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would 
conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so 
was proper or improper”). This level of detail about the executive session topic must also be 
included in the meeting notice. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2016-72.5  
 One permissible reason to hold an executive session is “[t]o conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 
2”). Another permissible reason to convene in executive session is “to discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”). This purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with 
respect to litigation that is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise 
demonstrably likely; the mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3. See 
Doherty v. School Committee of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Perryman v. School 
Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-05. 
 On the notice for the Committee’s June 7 meeting, the Committee listed the follow eight 
topics for executive session.  
1. Public Records Litigation 
2. Collective Bargaining Units A, B and C 
3. SEIU Negotiations 
4. SEIU Grievance 
 
4 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
5 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
5. Non-Union Contracts 
6. Non-Union Contract Negotiations - Supervisor of Attendance 
7. Pending Litigation Maguire v. School Committee 
8. Superintendent Salary Review 
 Mr. Freidman alleges that the Committee’s June 7 meeting notice was insufficiently 
specific because it did not specify, under each item, which of the ten statutory purposes the 
Committee was invoking to convene in executive session. A public body need not specifically 
identify the statutory purpose for the executive session, as long as the description of the topic 
makes clear which of the ten executive session purposes the public body is invoking. See OML 
2020-16. We therefore find no violation with respect to this allegation.  
 Mr. Freidman also alleges that several of the June 7 executive session topics as listed on 
the meeting notice did not provide enough detail about the particular matters the Committee 
planned to discuss. We only find that item five, “Non-Union Contracts,” was insufficiently 
specific. The Committee concedes that the notice should have identified the name(s) of the non-
union personnel to be discussed under item 5, as this information would not have compromised 
the purpose for the executive session. See OML 2020-43 (explaining that a public body should 
specify on the meeting notice the specific nonunion personnel with whom it will be negotiating, 
unless disclosure will defeat the purpose for the executive session). In response to the complaint, 
the Committee has since disclosed that item 5 included discussion of negotiations with Kelly 
Chase, Toni Mertz and Superintendent-Elect Noriega-Murphy.  
 Other than item five, we find that the other items adequately identified the topics to be 
discussed in executive session. With regard to item one in particular, the Committee was not 
required to disclose the parties against whom the Committee was considering filing suit, because 
the litigation had not yet been filed and the Council asserted that including the names of the 
parties on the meeting notice would have compromised the Committee’s litigating position with 
respect to the contemplated litigation. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)3; OML 2020-71 (when 
convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body should identify the litigation 
matter to be discussed, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy). The 
litigation in question was filed shortly after the meeting, on July 1. We therefore find no Open 
Meeting Law violation with respect to the listing of executive session topics, except item five.  
2. The Committee failed to periodically review its outstanding executive session minutes for 
release to the public.  
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  
 
Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(1). When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any 
documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed, unless the attorney-client privilege 
or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies. Id. The burden of justifying continued 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
nondisclosure of executive session minutes lies with the public body. Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham 
Regional School Committee, 402 Mass. 179, 184 (1988). 
 
A public body or its chair or designee must, at reasonable intervals, review the minutes of 
executive sessions to determine if continued nondisclosure of those minutes is warranted. G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(g)(1). Although “reasonable interval” is not defined by the Law, our office has found 
a quarterly review or a review every six months to be appropriate. See OML 2019-45; OML 
2017-104; OML 2015-166; OML 2013-180. At the meeting following each periodic review, the 
public body must announce which executive session minutes will be released and which will 
continue to be withheld at the next meeting following its review, and such announcement shall 
be included in the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1); OML 2019-3; OML 2015-94; OML 2013-
56. A public body’s obligation to review executive session minutes for possible release is 
ongoing. If a public body reviews executive session minutes and determines that the purpose for 
the executive session remains such that the minutes should continue to be withheld from the 
public, it must continue to review those same executive session minutes at reasonable intervals 
until it determines that the reason for secrecy has expired. See OML 2019-133. 
 
 The Committee acknowledges that it did not review its outstanding executive session 
minutes for potential release at reasonable interviews. We therefore find that the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law. In response to the complaint, the Committee has reviewed all of 
its outstanding executive session meeting minutes and released all, except portions of the 
minutes from the June 7 and July 1 executive sessions which relate to ongoing litigation 
involving the complainant, the Committee, the Secretary of State, and Supervisor of Public 
Records. We are persuaded that the Committee is justified in continuing to withhold the minutes 
of those executive sessions.   
3. We do not find the Committee’s violations of the Open Meeting Law to be 
intentional. 
 Finally, we must determine whether the Committee’s violations were, as the complainant 
urges, intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a 
public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 
29.02. An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate 
ignorance of the Law’s requirements or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates 
the Open Meeting Law. Id.   
 This office has not issued any prior determinations regarding the Committee, nor do we 
find any evidence that the Committee acted with deliberate ignorance of the Law. We therefore 
find that the violations were not intentional. 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee failed to periodically review its 
outstanding executive session minutes for release to the public and failed to include on a meeting 
notice sufficient specificity regarding one topic to be discussed in executive session on June 7. 
We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and 
caution the Committee that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. Since the Committee, in 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
response to the complaints, has completed a comprehensive review of all outstanding executive 
session minutes and disclosed the names of the individual non-union personnel discussed in 
executive session on June 7, we order no further relief.   
 We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Bruce Friedman (via e-mail: ) 
 Malden School Committee, c/o Chairperson Mayor Gary Christenson (via e-mail: 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
