===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 14, 2018 
OML 2018-117 
Caroline R. Thibeault, Esq. 
Valerio Dominello & Hillman, LLC 
One University Avenue, Suite 300B 
Westwood, MA 02090 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Thibeault: 
This office received a complaint from Susan Carney, dated July 9, alleging that the 
Winchester School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on June 4, and the Committee 
responded by letter dated June 21. In her complaint, Ms. Carney alleges that the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) failing to respond to a request for minutes, (ii) privately 
deliberating during a May 8 meeting, and (iii) deliberating outside of an open meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response, 
and the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the minutes of the 
Committee's May 8 meeting and an e-mail from the complainant to the Committee dated May 
11. We spoke by telephone to the Committee's legal counsel by telephone on July 12.2 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a five-member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum. The lighting policy for Skillings Field had been the subject of 
significant debate by the Committee, and the Committee created a subcommittee to consider 
certain aspects of lighting policy. This subcommittee held meetings on April 9 and 26. 
The Committee held a meeting on May 8. Following public comment regarding the 
lighting policy, the Committee voted and approved a 9:30 P.M. shut-off time for the field's 
lights. Just prior to the vote, the complainant observed Committee member Zeina Marchant 
briefly whispering to fellow Committee member Michelle Bergstrom "while simultaneously 
obscuring her mouth with her hands". According to both members, the interaction was a matter 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
of procedure. Ms. Marchant, a new member, was seeking confirmation that she could make a 
motion to amend at that time. Ms. Bergstrom nodded her head and confirmed that Ms. Marchant 
could proceed. Immediately after their inaudible interaction, Ms. Marchant made a motion to 
approve the lighting policy at issue. 
On May 11, the complainant requested the minutes of the May 8 meeting. The 
Committee's recording secretary responded that same day, stating that she would send the draft 
minutes "as soon as they could be prepared." On May 25, the Winchester School Superintendent 
informed the complainant that the recording secretary needed additional time to draft the May 8 
meeting minutes because she was temporarily covering the job duties of an administrative 
assistant who was on leave. 
The complainant made a second request for the minutes on May 30. On June 4, the 
Committee chair called the complainant to explain the circumstances of the delay. The draft 
minutes for the May 8 meeting were provided to the complainant on June 7 via e-mail. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Committee Provided Meeting Minutes Once They Were Drafted. 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to "create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meetings, 
including a record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The law also states that "[t]he minutes of 
an open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft form, shall be made available 
upon request by any person within 10 days." G.L. c. BOA, § 22(c) (emphasis added). 
The complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
make the May 8 minutes available within ten days of the request. When open session minutes 
are requested, a public body must, within ten days, either make the requested minutes available 
or respond to the requestor informing her that no minutes exist. See OML 2012-100; OML 
2017-173.3 The complaint states that the Committee clerk took minutes by hand during the 
meeting, so the Committee was in possession of a draft that it was obligated to make available. 
The Committee conceded that the clerk was taking notes by hand but stated that those notes were 
in personal shorthand that would be unintelligible to readers. Although we have found that in 
some circumstances handwritten notes can be considered draft minutes, we have found that notes 
in shorthand are not draft minutes. See OML 2013-131; OML 2014-95. We find that the clerk's 
handwritten shorthand notes were not a draft of the May 8 meeting minutes the Committee was 
not obligated to provide them within ten days. We therefore find that the Committee did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to this allegation. 
II. The Committee Did Not Deliberate Privately During the May 8 Meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www. mass. gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Southbridge, 376 Mass.70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a deliberation by 
a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A 
"deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of other 
procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a 
meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. For the purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority of the member of the public body. Id. 
The complaint alleges that Ms. Marchant improperly whispered to Ms. Bergstrom during 
the May 8 meeting. Indeed, it appears that the two Committee members engaged in a brief 
exchange that was not audible to the public. However, we find that this incident did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law. Not only were the comments of a procedural nature, but they did not 
reach a quorum of the Committee. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
III. The Committee Did Not Deliberate Outside of a Noticed Meeting. 
Similar to the above, the complaint alleges that the Committee deliberated outside of 
open session regarding the field lighting policy. In support of this allegation, the complaint 
points to difference in field lighting proposals between the May 8 Committee meeting and a prior 
Committee meeting, and therefore argues that the Committee must have met between those 
meetings to discuss the changes. The Committee stated to our office that the changes at issue 
stemmed from the subcommittee meetings that took place on April 9 and 26.4 We credit this 
assertion. See OML 2017-168 (absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public 
body's account of the facts). Accordingly, we find no violation with respect to this allegation. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
4 To the extent that the complaint alleges that the subcommittee's meeting notices were insufficiently specific, we 
note that the present complaint was filed only with the Committee. Accordingly, we cannot investigate allegations 
concerning other bodies. See G.L. c. 23(b) (complaints must be filed with the body alleged to have violated the 
Open Meeting Law). 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 
===PAGE 4===
cc: Susan Carney 
Winchester School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 