===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
December 17, 2012 
OML 2012 — 114 
Michael Phelan 
Member, Select Board 
Town of Southampton 
210 College Highway, Suite 7 
Southampton, MA 01073 
Re: Open Meeting Law Complaint - Southampton Board of Selectmen 
Dear Mr. Phelan: 
This office received a complaint from Michael Sacco, dated June 1, 2012, alleging that 
the Southampton Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about April 30, 2012, 
and the Board responded to the original complaint by letter dated May 24, 2012. We received 
your response on behalf of the Board in a letter dated July 10, 2012. In his complaint, Mr. Sacco 
alleges that the Board met in executive session for an improper purpose and included individuals 
in the executive session who were not authorized to be present.' 
Following our review, we fmd that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law during its 
April 10, 2012 meeting because it convened in executive session for an improper purpose. In 
making our determination, we reviewed the open and executive session minutes of the Board's 
April 10, 2012 meeting; Mr. Sacco's initial April 24, 2012 complaint to the Board and the 
Board's May 24, 2012 response; and Mr. Sacco's June 1, 2012 complaint filed with our office. 
We also reviewed executive session minutes from the Board's July 26, 2011 and February 21, 
2012 meetings regarding the receivership; the Board's July 10, 2012 letter to our office; and Mr. 
Sacco's July 30, 2012 letter to our office requesting that we continue our investigation. 
1 Mr. Sacco's June 1, 2012 complaint solely alleges violations stemming from the Board's April 10, 2012 executive 
session. In his formal request to our office dated July 30, 2012, he raises an additional allegation that the Board may 
have violated the Open Meeting Law on June 21, 2012 by entering into executive session to discuss "Strategy Fire 
Chief Contract." We decline to review this issue in accordance with our policies, as it was not raised in his original 
complaint against the Board. See 940 CMR29.05(1). 
0 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the materials listed above, the facts are as follows. Since 2009, 
the Town of Southampton has been working to clean up multiple code violations and demolish 
structures on Michael J. Wojtowicz's property on Brickyard Road, with an eye towards 
purchasing a portion of the land. To determinate a fair purchase price and analyze associated 
costs, the Board, acting on behalf of the Town, met with a court appointed receiver and other 
related parties. 
In February 2011, a court appointed Attorney Cheryl A. Parker as receiver of the property 
to oversee the cleanup and demolition process. Attorney Parker proceeded to solicit bids for the 
demolition and hired an engineer to determine if the house on the land was salvageable. The 
engineer found multiple health and safety code violations and determined the house needed to be 
demolished. Due to the high cost of demolition and correcting the multiple code violations, Mr. 
Wojtowicz's land, with the exception of a small part he would retain to rebuild a new home, 
would be auctioned to pay all associated costs. 
On July 26, 2011, the Board entered into executive session with all Board members, 
Mark Reed of Heritage Surveys, and Attorney Parker to discuss the receivership for twenty-two 
acres of Mr. Wojtowicz's property. The discussion included price, restrictions on the land, and 
necessary site cleanup. 
The Board again entered into an executive session on February 21, 2012 to discuss the 
receivership plans, and included Mr. Reed; Attorney William J. O'Grady, Attorney Parker's 
representative for the receivership proceedings; and a representative from the Community 
Preservation Committee. At this executive session, the Board discussed selling the remainder of 
Mr. Wojtowicz's land to fund the demolition and associated costs, realizing that a large portion 
of the property is in a natural heritage zone and would require extensive, expensive surveying 
and cleanup. The court moved to have Mr. Reed develop plans for the twenty-two acres in lieu 
of going through the formal survey process, and convey the twenty-two acre portion to a new 
receiver. At that point, the house would be demolished, the twenty-two acres would be divided 
into five separate lots with three of them individually sold, and the proceeds would reimburse the 
Town, Attorney Parker, and Mr. Wojtowicz. Even though the twenty-two acres were appraised 
at $100,000, the Board voted to obtain the land for the value of the liens against the property, not 
to exceed $50,000, subject to examining the contents of waste barrels found on the property, and 
if any additional problems were found, subject to collaboration with the Conservation 
Commission. 
The Board next met in an executive session on April 10, 2012 to discuss new 
improvements with the previously outlined receivership process, and again included Mr. Reed 
and Attorney O'Grady in the executive session. The Board and the additional attendees 
discussed the consequences of the Town obtaining the land for less than its appraised price, 
allowing Mr. Wojtowicz to remain on the property were he to construct a new home on one of 
the apportioned lots, and any potential land use restrictions.2  The Board unanimously voted to 
2  Mr. Wojtowicz's land is part of a natural heritage zone, protected by the Natural Heritage Act and the 
Massachusetts Endangered Act, which requires setting aside 7% of the property and only developing 30% of the 
total land. The April 10, 2012 meeting minutes reflect after the property was cleaned up, it would be transferred to 
the Town and, rather than paying the fair market value of $100,000 to Mr. Wojtowicz, the Town would waive up to 
2 
===PAGE 3===
have Attorney O'Grady draft a purchase and sale agreement for the Town to obtain the land for 
$50,000, in consideration for forgiveness of the town liens. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes, provided that the chair of the 
public body first announces in open session the purpose for the executive session, "stating all 
subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session 
was called." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3). 
Mr. Sacco alleges that the Board convened into executive session for an improper 
purpose with unauthorized individuals present. One permissible reason to convene in executive 
session is Purpose 6, which allows a public body to enter into executive session "[t]o consider 
the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting 
may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body." Id. at §21(a)(6). 
Purpose 6 is intended to preserve confidentiality in negotiating the value of the property to be 
purchased, exchanged or leased to avoid putting the public body at a disadvantage in its 
negotiations for the property. See District Atty. for the Plymouth Dist. v. Selectmen of 
Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 631 (1985). When representatives of the seller of the real 
property, such as the seller's attorney, are present, Purpose 6 is defeated because there is no need 
to enter executive session to establish a confidential negotiating position. Allen v. Board of 
Selectmen, 58 Mass. App. Ct. 715, 720 (2002). On April 10, 2012, the Board convened in 
executive session and included Attorney O'Grady, acting as representative for Attorney Parker, 
the court-appointed receiver of the property and the selling party. 
The Board's notice for its April 10, 2012 meeting listed Purpose 6 to justify entering into 
executive session and named the additional persons who would be joining the session: 
"Executive Session M.G.L. C30A, Sec. 21 #6 Mark Reed, Heritage Surveys & Attorney 
O'Grady Re: Brickyard Rd Receivership." While Purpose 6 allows the Board to enter into 
executive session to discuss and negotiate an appropriate purchase price for the land and the next 
steps to acquire the land, by including Attorney O'Grady while he was acting as the seller's 
representative on April 10, 2012, the Board improperly entered into executive session and 
violated the Open Meeting Law.3  The Board should have discussed the Brickyard Rd. 
Receivership in open session, or in executive session without either Attorney O'Grady or 
Attorney Parker present. 
$50,000 of the liens and receive the property in return. Attorney O'Grady stated that the Town had preliminary 
approval from the Commonwealth to divide the land into five lots under the Natural Heritage Act, as long as the 
Town would take the 7% undeveloped open land. The proceeds from selling the subdivided lots would go to 
reimburse Heritage Surveys, the excavator, and Attorneys Parker and O'Grady for their legal work, with the balance 
going to Mr. Wojtowicz to rebuild his home on the portion of the land he retained. 
3  While not alleged in Mr. Sacco's original complaint, we note that the Board, by including Attorneys Parker and/or 
O'Grady in its February 21, 2012 and July 26, 2011 executive sessions also violated the Open Meeting Law for the 
same reasons stated in this letter finding that the April 10, 2012 executive session was held for an improper purpose. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
entering into executive session for an improper purpose. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that future similar violations may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. We also order all Board members who did not 
attend the Board's previously scheduled September 11, 2012 training to attend a training on the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, within ninety (90) days of receipt of this letter, to be 
conducted by an attorney or organization familiar with the requirements of the Open Meeting 
Law and approved by this office.4  Board members may also fulfill this order by reviewing the 
complete Open Meeting Law training video available at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this 
letter to be inaccurate. 
onathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Michael Sacco 
Patricia A. Cantor, Esq., Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4  We recognize that, according to the Board's July 10, 2012 response to our office, the Board scheduled training in 
the Open Meeting Law for September 11, 2012. Mr. Sacco informed our office on September 20, 2012 that only 
one Board member attended that training. 
4 