===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
       February 14, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 19 
 
 
Brookfield Conservation Commission  
 c/o William Meeker, Chair 
6 Central Street 
Brookfield, MA 01506  
 
By email only: concomm@brookfieldma.us 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Meeker: 
 
This office received a complaint from Karen Reynolds on September 8, 2024, alleging 
that the Brookfield Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on or 
about June 12, 2024, and the Commission’s Chair at the time, Christopher Kelleher, responded, 
on behalf of the Commission, by letter dated June 19, 2024.
1  The complaint alleges that the 
Commission convened in executive session for an improper purpose during a meeting held on 
June 11, 2024, and did not allow the complainant to attend that executive session.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
convening in executive session for an improper purpose.  We find that the Commission did not 
violate Open Meeting Law in the other way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed 
the original complaint, the Commission’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with 
our office requesting further review.  In addition, we reviewed the notice and video recording of 
the Commission meeting held on May 15, 2024, and the notice and open and executive session 
minutes of the Commission meeting held on June 11, 2024, as well as a video recording of that 
meeting.
2   
 
 
1 Mr. Kelleher is no longer a member of the Commission. 
2 A video recording of the Commission meeting held on May 15, 2024, is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NPqu0shVtpA; a video recording of the Commission meeting held on June 11, 
2024, is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nxe66pOfEkw.   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Commission duly posted notice of a meeting to be held 
on May 15, 2024, at 6:30 P.M.  The notice listed six topics, one of which was “RDA (Request 
for Determination of Applicability) for Keith Realty Group” at 6 Molasses Hill Road.   
 
During the May 15, 2024, meeting, the Commission discussed a Request for 
Determination of Applicability filed by Keith Realty Group to construct a driveway at 6 
Molasses Hill Road.  The Commission heard from the applicant, as well as members of the 
public who expressed their concerns that the notice was not properly sent to abutters and asked 
the Commission to delay any decision on the application.  Ultimately, the Commission approved 
the application by majority vote. 
 
On May 20, 2024, at 3:42 P.M., the Commission posted notice of a meeting to be held on 
June 11, 2024, at 6:30 P.M.  The notice listed 13 topics, one of which was to review and respond 
to an Open Meeting Law complaint filed by the complainant.  The notice did not include any 
executive session topic. 
 
The June 11, 2024, meeting was held as planned.  During the meeting, the Commission 
discussed a previous Open Meeting Law complaint filed by the complainant, which concerned 
whether the Commission properly posted notice of the May 15, 2024, meeting, specifically with 
respect to the topic pertaining to the application filed by Keith Realty Group.
3  The Commission 
heard from the complainant who advised that Keith Realty Group was a dissolved corporation; 
therefore, its application for a determination of applicability at 6 Molasses Hill Road was 
“fraudulent” and suggested that the application approved by the Commission during its May 15, 
2024, meeting be “thrown out.”  She further requested that any Commission member who had 
any business relationship with the applicant recuse themself.  The Commission then discussed 
whether notice was properly posted, whether notice was properly sent to abutters, and what town 
bylaws required with respect to notice for an RDA application.  
 
A member of the public expressed concern that, based on the complainant’s claims of 
fraudulence, the Commission “was at risk from a legal standpoint.”  The Commission discussed 
whether Keith Realty Group was the legal owner of the property at 6 Molasses Hill Road and 
whether its application was properly filed.  Commission member William Meeker then made a 
motion to convene in executive session to discuss “possible legal implications.”  Chair Kelleher 
asked for the specific executive session number that the Commission would convene under since 
an executive session was not a topic listed on the notice.  Commission member Sarah Campbell 
clarified that the Commission would convene in executive session under Purpose 3 “to discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body.”  Chair Kelleher 
 
3 Specifically, the previous complaint alleged that the notice that was mailed to abutters regarding a Request for 
Determination of Applicability to be discussed during a Commission meeting held on May 15, 2024, referenced a 
“driveway” rather than a “road” and therefore did not adequately put abutters on notice regarding the scope of the 
proposed development.  On December 27, 2024, this office declined to review that complaint explaining that the 
Open Meeting Law does not govern the requirements for providing notice of a public hearing to abutters.  In 
addition, we found that the complaint was not timely filed with our office for review.  See  OML Declination 12-27-
24 (Brookfield Conservation Commission). 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
announced that the Commission would reconvene in open session after the conclusion of the 
executive session and the Commission then unanimously voted to convene in executive session. 
 
The Commission met in executive session for approximately 10 minutes.  According to 
our in-camera review of the draft minutes, the Commission discussed whether to seek advice 
from Town Counsel.  After reconvening in open session, Ms. Campbell made a motion, which 
was seconded by Mr. Meeker, “to refer the matter to Town Counsel to review the Open Meeting 
Law complaint and our response.”  The Commission then discussed the remaining open session 
topics.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the  
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a 
public body be conducted in an open session, unless an executive session is convened.  G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the 
ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open 
session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the 
vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has 
publicly announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive 
session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.
4   
 
One permissible reason to convene in executive session is “to discuss strategy with 
resp
ect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).  Purpose 3 offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with respect 
to litigation that is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably 
likely; the mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3.  See Doherty v. 
School Committee of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Perryman v. School Committee of 
Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2020-76; OML 2019-164; OML 2012-5.   
 
After reviewing the minutes, we find that the discussions by the Commission during the 
June 11, 2024, e
xecutive session meeting were not appropriate under Purpose 3 or any other 
purpose.  Here, the Commission simply discussed whether to seek advice from Town Counsel, 
but we find no evidence that such discussions pertained to pending or clearly and imminently 
threatened litigation nor that the discussions involved litigation strategy.  We have previously 
determined that executive session Purpose 3 does not cover discussions with counsel about 
general areas of law unrelated to any litigation matter nor does receiving legal advice from 
counsel necessarily constitute discussion of litigation strategy.  See OML 2023-182; OML 2021-
56; OML 2012-55.  As such, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
convening in executive session for an improper purpose. 
 
 
4 Open Meeting Law declination letters and determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We also find that the Commission failed to conduct a procedural requirement prior to 
convening in executive session where it did not conduct a roll call vote; instead, Chair Kelleher 
simply asked, “All in favor” and members responded by saying “Aye.”  A roll call vote is “the 
act or an instance of calling off a list of names.”  Webster’s Third New International Dictionary 
of the English Language, 683 (unabridged ed. 1961).  This requirement is intended to create a 
clear record of what occurred and to reflect the significance of holding a discussion behind 
closed doors.  See OML 2015-131; OML 2014-94; OML 2012-10.  We find that the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to vote by roll call to convene in executive session on 
June 11, 2024.  See OML 2020-129. 
 
As a result of these vi olations, the Commission may not continue to withhold the minutes 
of the June 11, 2024, executive session under the Open Meeting Law.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(1) 
(minutes of an executive session may be withheld from disclosure to the public as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of an executive session, provided that the executive 
session was held in compliance with section 21 of the Open Meeting Law); OML 2014-42; OML 
2014-30; OML 2014-17.   
 
With respect to the minutes of the executive session, we find them to be insufficient.  
Alt
hough the minutes provided to this office are in draft form and therefore may be revised at 
any point prior to their approval to correct inaccuracies or add detail, the minutes, even in draft 
form, are clearly insufficient on their face.  The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body 
“create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth 
the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each 
subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the 
actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  Further, 
the law requires that meeting minutes include more than a statement that a public body held a 
discussion about a specified topic; the law requires that the minutes summarize the discussions 
that were held.  See OML 2019-167; OML 2018-8.   
 
To the extent the complaint alleges that the Commission discussed a matter in executive 
se
ssion that was not listed on the notice, we do not find a violation.  Here, the Commission’s 
decision to convene in executive session arose during its consideration of the prior Open Meeting 
Law complaint, which was a topic listed on the notice.  While discussing the complaint, both 
Commission members and members of the public raised concerns and possible improprieties 
with the Commission’s decision to approve the RDA at 6 Molasses Hill Road.  A public body 
may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 
hours in advance of the meeting, and it even may discuss such an unanticipated topic in 
executive session if the matter falls within one of the ten permissible purposes.  See OML 2017-
2; OML 2013-87.  Although, as explained above, the Commission did not convene in executive 
session for a valid purpose on June 11, 2024, we emphasize that convening in executive session 
to discuss a matter that was not anticipated and therefore not on the meeting notice is not itself a 
violation of the Law.  See OML 2019-167; OML 2023-114; OML 2017-67.    
 
Finally, with respect to the allegation that the Commission did not allow the complainant 
to attend the executive session meeting, we do not find a violation.  Members of the public have 
the right to attend any open session meeting of a public body, as well as to see and hear what is 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
being discussed.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); OML 2015-38; OML 2014-3.  Although all executive 
sessions must be preceded by an open session so that the public has an opportunity to attend and 
learn the reasons for the executive session, the executive session meeting itself is entirely closed 
to the public, offering no ability to witness the proceedings.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  Only if a 
public body meets in executive session under Purpose 1 does the individual to be discussed 
during such an executive session have the right to be present during deliberations, to have 
counsel present, and to speak on his own behalf.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1).  Even though the 
Commission here did not properly convene in executive session under Purpose 3, as previously 
explained, whether or not an individual, such as the complainant, is permitted to participate in an 
executive session is a matter at the discretion of the Commission and its decision to restrict an 
individual’s attendance at an executive session meeting would not be a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law.  See OML 2013-50.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by f
ailing to vote by roll call prior to convening in executive session and by convening in 
executive session without a proper purpose.  We order immediate and future compliance with the 
law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law.  In addition, we order the Commission, within 30 days of the date of this 
letter, to amend the minutes of its June 11, 2024, executive session to accurately summarize its 
discussion, to approve and release such minutes to the public, and to certify to this office that it 
has done so.  See 940 C.M.R. 29.07(4).   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Karen Reynolds – By email only:  
Brookfield Town Clerk Michael Seery – By email only:
 mseery@brookfieldma.us 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
