===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 7, 2015 
OML 2015-182 
Ellen Grieco, Chair 
Wayland School Committee 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Grieco: 
This office received a complaint from George Harris, dated September 10, alleging that 
the Wayland School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on July 20, and, after an 
extension of time was granted, the Committee replied by letter dated August 19. In his 
complaint, Mr. Harris alleges that the Committee provided insufficient detail, both in a meeting 
notice and in a verbal statement during a meeting, about an executive session. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Committee's response; and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the meeting notice and 
minutes of a Committee meeting held on July 6. Finally, we spoke with Committee Chair Ellen 
Grieco by telephone on October 2.2 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
July 6. The meeting notice stated that the Committee would discuss "Administrative/Procedural 
Matters," with several subtopics listed below. One of these subtopics was 5(e), "Discussion of 
School Committee's Communication with Former Athletic Director and Referral of Certain 
Matters to State Agencies." Far below this, listed as 8(b) on the agenda, was an anticipated 
executive session to discuss, "Strategy with Respect to Threatened Litigation against the School 
Committee, pursuant to M.G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3)." Chair Grieco intended for the reference to 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
the Athletic Director in 5(e) to relate to the anticipated executive session listed in 8(b), although 
this was not explicitly stated on the meeting notice. 
During the meeting at issue, the Committee discussed communication with the former 
Athletic Director, as planned. The minutes state, in part, the following: "Kathie prepared a 
response regarding the former Athletic Director's email dated May 19, 2015 to the School 
Committee. However, she asked that the Committee have the discussion in Executive Session. 
Ellen noted that agenda item 8(b) in Executive Session could include this discussion. The 
Committee agreed." When voting to enter executive session, the Chair stated that the purpose 
for the executive session was, in part, to discuss "strategy with respect to threatened litigation 
against the School Committee, as permitted by M.G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3), as such discussion in 
open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigation position of the School Committee 
and as Executive Session is necessary to protect the litigation position of the School 
Committee[.]" 
DISCUSSION 
Public bodies must post notice of every meeting. G.L. c. 3 OA, § 20(b). The notice must 
be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of 
the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. 
Id. The listing of topics "shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2011-15. 
A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a). One such purpose permits a public body to enter into executive session to 
"discuss strategy with respect to... litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the... litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) 
("Purpose 3"). The mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke executive session 
Purpose 3. See OML 2012-5; OML 2011-30.3 Litigation must be pending or clearly and 
imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. See Perryman v. School Committee of 
Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-43. When entering executive session 
pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body must identify the litigation matter or bargaining unit that it 
intends to discuss both in the written notice and verbal statement made before entering executive 
session, if doing so will not compromise the executive session purpose. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(b)(3); OML 2014-145; OML 2013-91. While we generally defer to apublic body's 
assessment of whether the inclusion of such information would compromise the purpose for an 
executive session, a public body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for that claim if 
challenged. See OML 2015-14. 
Here, the Committee did not indicate, either on the meeting notice or in the chair's verbal 
statement, the name of the litigation matter to be discussed in executive session on July 6. In 
response to this complaint, the Chair could not identify a specific harm that would have occurred 
if the name of the litigation matter had been identified. However, she noted that she intended for 
the reference to the Athletic Director in section 5(e) of the meeting notice to relate to the 
anticipated executive session listed in 8(b). We find that the format of the notice, with eleven 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
topics between those two items, was too attenuated a connection for a reasonable member of the 
public to have understood that the Athletic Director would be discussed during the executive 
session at issue. In any event, even if the written notice had been sufficient, the Chair should 
have also identified the litigation matter at the time the vote to enter executive session was taken. 
By failing to sufficiently identify the litigation matter on the meeting notice and in the verbal 
statement during the meeting, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. G.L. 
The complaint urges that we find the present violation to be intentional. An intentional 
violation is an "act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of 
[the Open Meeting Law]." 940 CMR 29.02. An intentional violation may be found where the 
public body has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting Law. 
Id. We note that our office has previously advised the Board of its obligation to provide 
sufficient information regarding anticipated executive session discussion topics. See OML 2015-
55. Here, because the Board provided pertinent information regarding the executive session at 
issue—albeit in a form that ultimately was not understandable to the reasonable observer—we 
decline to find that this violation was intentional. We caution the Board to be diligent in the 
future when providing information about anticipated executive sessions. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We order the Committee's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law's 
requirements and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent 
to violate the law. Additionally, we order the Committee to review the Attorney General's Open 
Meeting Law Training Video #2: Meeting Notices and certify to our office within thirty (30) 
days of receiving this letter, using the attached form, that it has done so.4 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
c.30A,§§ 20(a), 21(b)(3). 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: George Harris 
4 The Attorney General's Open Meeting Law training videos may be found at: www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 
/ 
===PAGE 5===
Certification of Compliance with Order 
I hereby certify that I have read the Attorney General's determination 
(print name) 
number OML 2015-182 and, pursuant to the order therein, reviewed the Attorney General's 
Open Meeting Law Training Video #2: Meeting Notices on . 
(date) 
Public Body Member Signature Date 
5 