===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 7, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 116 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Michael D’Ortenzio Jr., Esq. 
KP Law 
mdortenzio@k-plaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney D’Ortenzio: 
 
This office received a complaint on February 21, 2024,
1 from Ellin Asack alleging that 
the Sandwich Historic District Committee (the “Committee”)2 violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on December 5, 
2023. After extensions of time granted by our office, you responded to the complaint, and 
another complaint filed by Ms. Asack, on behalf of the Committee by letter dated January 12, 
2024. The complaint alleges that 1) the chair of the Committee improperly deliberated via email 
on November 6, 2023;
3 2) a quorum of the Committee improperly deliberated prior to a site visit 
held on November 6; and 3) the notice for November 6 site visit was insufficient. 
 
Following our review,
4 we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficient notice for its November 6 site visit and by deliberating via email on 
 
1 The Complainant has filed three complaints with our office that relate to the Committee. Each complaint will be 
resolved by separate letter.  
2 The Old King’s Highway Regional Historic District was established in 1973 and covers multiple towns, one of 
which is Sandwich. Each Town within the district has its own Historic District Committee. The Committee at issue 
here is the Town of Sandwich’s Historic District Committee. To the extent the complaint alleges that members of 
the Old King’s Highway Regional Historic District Commission improperly deliberated, we decline to review this 
allegation where the compliant was not filed with that body. See OML 2021-99. 
3 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise noted.  
4 Our review is limited to allegations of violations of the Open Meeting Law that were clearly and sufficiently raised 
in the original complaint filed with the Committee. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(1); OML 2019-133, 
n.4 (explaining that we decline to review allegations raised for the first time in a request for further review); OML 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
November 6. We do not find that a quorum of the Committee deliberated immediately prior to 
convening the November 6 site visit. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open 
Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response, the request for further review and additional 
information provided by the Complainant, the notice and minutes for the Committee’s November 
6 site visit, a video recording of an October 23 Committee meeting,
5 and emails exchanged 
between the Complainant and the chair of the Committee on November 6. Finally, we also 
reviewed a short video recording taken by the Complainant on November 6 prior to the site visit.  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the relevant facts to be as follows. The Committee is a five-member body; 
therefore, three members constitute a quorum. The Complainant owns property at 35 Gully Lane 
in Sandwich. During the Committee’s October 23 meeting, it discussed two complaints that the 
Complainant’s neighbors at 39 Gully Lane had filed regarding a hedge and a dirt mound located 
at 35 Gully Lane.
6 During the October 23 meeting, Michael Sullivan, the chair of the Committee, 
made a motion that, among other things, the Committee accept jurisdiction over the hedge and 
deem the hedge a structure under the Old King’s Highway Regional Historic District Act. The 
motion failed. With respect to the dirt mound, the Committee voted affirmatively to conduct a 
site visit to view the dirt mound for purposes of determining whether the Committee had 
jurisdiction over it.  
 
After the Committee voted to conduct a site visit, Chair Sullivan discussed scheduling the 
site visit, indicating that the visit would take place at the neighbors’ property located at 39 Gully 
Lane. The Complainant asked Chair Sullivan why he was not arranging the site visit with her 
since the dirt mound to be viewed and considered was located on her property at 35 Gully Lane. 
Chair Sullivan acknowledged that the dirt mound was located on the Complainant’s property but 
stated that he could view the dirt mound from the neighbors’ property and so he did not have to 
arrange the site visit with the Complainant. Chair Sullivan then stated that someone would 
provide the Complainant with notice of the time of the site visit and asked if this would be 
acceptable; the Complainant stated that it would be acceptable.  
 
On November 1, the Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on November 6 at 
12:00 p.m. The notice read as follows:  
 
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMITTEE AGENDA 
November 61 2023 - 12:00 p.m. 
39 Gully Lane 
 
1. Attendance 
2. Site visit 39 Gully Lane 
 
2012-92; OML 2021-10, n. 2; OML 2019-1 (“Our office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on 
generalized allegations.”). 
5 Video recordings of the Committee’s meetings may be found at https://sandwichcommunitytv.org/government -
channel-15/. 
6 For the sake of clarity, we refer to the items that were the subjects of the neighbors’ complaints as a hedge and a 
dirt mound. We offer no opinion as to how either item should be classified for purposes of determining whether the 
Committee had jurisdiction over these items. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
3. Adjournment 
 
On November 2, Robert Kupsch, Clerk for the Committee, circulated by email the 
meeting notice for the November 6 site visit. The email was sent to, among others, the members 
of the Committee and the Complainant. The Complainant responded, copying all recipients, and 
asked for clarification as to whether the purpose of the site visit to 39 Gully Lane was to view the 
dirt mound at 35 Gully Lane. Ralph Vitacco, Director of Planning and Economic Development 
for the Town, responded to the Complainant’s inquiry. Thereafter, on November 6, the 
Complainant sent an approximately four-page email in response, again copying all of the 
previous recipients. In the email the Complainant expressed many concerns she had regarding, 
among other things, the Committee’s October 23 meeting; the history of and approach taken with 
respect to the neighbors’ complaints regarding the hedge and the dirt mound; whether the 
November 6 site visit would be limited to review of the dirt mound and not include the hedge; 
and the Committee’s jurisdiction over hedges and structures going forward. Throughout the 
email, the Complainant specifically called into question Chair Sullivan’s motives and the 
propriety of the way in which he had handled matters in the past and might handle them going 
forward. The Complainant also suggested that Chair Sullivan step down as chair and requested 
that he recuse himself from the matters concerning 35 Gully Lane. Later that same day, 
November 6, Chair Sullivan responded to the Complainant’s email, copying all recipients, 
stating: “Ms. Asack: I briefly read your screed below and found it to be without value. I judge all 
matters on the merits, regardless of the persons involved. Mike Sullivan.”  
 
On November 6 four members of the Committee attended the site visit at 39 Gully Lane 
and viewed and discussed the dirt mound located at 35 Gully Lane. The members also viewed 
the hedge during the site visit. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We Find  That the Notice for the November 6 Site Visit was Insufficient Where it 
Listed 39 Gully Lane as the Subject of the Site Visit Instead of 35 Gully Lane. 
 
Except in an emergency, a public body must post notice of every meeting “at least 48 
hours pri
or to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays,” and the notice 
must include, among other things, a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a 
meeting notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a topic to include 
sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2023-3; OML 2015-
35; OML 2011-44.7 We have found in the past that a meeting notice was sufficient where it 
notified the public that the public body would conduct site visits and identified the specific 
properties by address. See OML 2018-57.  
 
 
7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
The instant matter presents a novel set of facts where the location of the November 6 site 
visit, 39 Gully Lane, was different from the subject of the site visit, 35 Gully Lane. The 
Committee asserts that the notice for the November 6 site visit was sufficient because it,  
 
identified the property at issue by address and indicated the Committee would be 
making a site visit. As the sole purpose of the Committee is to implement the [Old 
King’s Highway Regional Historic District] Act, the public was reasonably advised 
that the Committee’s site visit to 39 Gully Lane would be to inspect for compliance 
with the Act and the Committee’s rules. 
 
We disagree with the Committee’s assessment. Here, the “property at issue” which the 
Committee would be inspecting for compliance with the Act and its rules was 35 Gully Lane, not 
39 Gully Lane. Therefore, we find that although the notice for the November 6 site visit properly 
listed the location of the meeting it failed to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed. 
 
II. We Find That the Committee Improperly Deliberated By Em
 ail on November 6, but 
Do Not Find That a Quorum of the Committee Deliberated Immediately Prior to 
Convening the November 6 Site Visit.  
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the s
 ecrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-
(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter 
within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” broadly as “an 
oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 18. For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is “a simple majority of the members of 
the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A one-way communication from one public body member to 
a quorum on business within the body’s jurisdiction is deliberation, even if no other members 
respond. See OML 2020-136. The Law’s definition of “deliberation” is not limited to opinion or 
decision-making communications. See OML 2023-65; OML 2018-9; OML 2015-3.  
 
The complaint alleges that Chair Sullivan improperly deliberated when he responded to 
the C
omplainant’s November 6 email and stated “Ms. Asack: I briefly read your screed below 
and found it to be without value. I judge all matters on the merits, regardless of the persons 
involved.” Although the email at issue presents a close question, we find that Chair Sullivan 
improperly deliberated when he responded to the Complainant’s email, copying a quorum of the 
Committee, and shared his opinion about the value of the Complainant’s comments, some of 
which related to business within the Committee’s jurisdiction. See OML 2018-118 (finding that a 
“thumbs up” emoji as well as the response “I agree” constituted improper deliberation); OML 
2020-136 (finding that a public body member had a practice of emailing fellow body members 
regarding matters within the body’s jurisdiction); OML 2021-179. Although we find a violation 
here, we do recognize that it is sometimes difficult to determine whether communication 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
constitutes deliberation under the Open Meeting Law; therefore, our office cautions public 
bodies on the use of email.  
 
The Committee asserts that even if Chair Sullivan’s November 6 email constituted 
improper deliberation, it cured the violation “by appending the e-mail to its minutes for its 
January 8, 2024 meeting, which are publicly available.” A review of the January 8, 2024, 
meeting minutes shows that during the Committee’s discussion of the present complaint, Chair 
Sullivan read “into the record an email he sent to Ms. Asack.” However, the email is not 
appended to the minutes. Nor is the email summarized in the minutes, listed in the minutes as a 
document used at the meeting, or otherwise specifically identified in the minutes. We order the 
Committee to amend the minutes of its January 8, 2024, meeting to specifically identify the 
November 6 email in the list of documents used at the January 8, 2024, meeting.   
 
Next, the complaint alleges that a quorum of the Committee deliberated immediately 
prior to convening the November 6 site visit. Specifically, the complaint alleges that upon 
arriving at 39 Gully Lane, Chair Sullivan announced that the matter of the hedge would likely be 
sent back to the Committee by the Old King’s Highway Regional Historic District Commission 
for further consideration and so “a second look today is in order.” The complaint further alleges 
that Chair Sullivan also discussed the contents of his November 6 email exchange with the 
Complainant and stated that, with respect to the hedge, “this thing[’]s coming back to us, the 
commission follows Jim Wilson’s advice, in my opinion we should too.” The Committee denies 
these allegations, explaining that the discussion between Committee members prior to formally 
convening the site visit was informal and lasted only a few minutes. The Committee further 
explains that the discussion “generally concerned members’ methods of transportation to the site, 
a prior text exchange with respect thereto, and appropriate parking thereat.” Finally, the 
Committee asserts that “[t]he Committee does not recall deliberating on any matters within the 
Committee’s jurisdiction during this brief time.”  
 
We reviewed a shor
 t video recording, lasting approximately 19 seconds, taken by the 
Complainant. The video shows two members of the Committee, one of the neighbors at 39 Gully 
Lane, and a fourth unidentifiable person standing together prior to the convening of the 
November 6 site visit. Although it is clear from the video that the individuals are speaking to 
each other, because of the distance from which the video was taken, it is not possible to 
determine what they are saying except for a few individual words. Absent sufficient evidence to 
support the Complainant’s allegation that a quorum of the Committee deliberated prior to 
convening the site visit, we credit the Committee’s account of the facts and find no violation of 
the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2013-133; OML 2014-147; OML 2024-85. 
 
Finally, we must determine whether the Committee’s violations were intentional, as the 
Complainant alleges. An intentional violation is an act or omission by a public body or a member 
thereof, in knowing violation of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25. An intentional violation may be 
found where the public body acted with specific intent to violate the Law or with deliberate 
ignorance of the Law’s requirements, or has previously been advised that certain conduct 
violates the Open Meeting Law. 940 CMR 29.02. In the past five years, we have not issued a 
determination warning the Committee against the violations found here, nor do we find other 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
evidence that would support a finding of an intentional violation. Therefore, we do not find the 
Committee to have intentionally violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by posting an insufficient notice for its November 6 site visit and by deliberating via email on 
November 6. We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law and caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of an intent 
to violate the Law. Additionally, we order the Committee, within 30 days of the date of this 
determination, to amend the minutes of it January 8, 2024, meeting to include in the list of 
documents used at the meeting the November 6 email that constituted improper deliberation.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Sandwich Historic District Committee (via email: planning@sandwichmass.org)  
Taylor White, Sandwich Town Clerk (via email: twhite@sandwichmass.org) 
Ellin Asack (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
