===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 30, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 141 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Coreen Moore 
Bourne Town Planner 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Moore: 
This office received a complaint on April 1, 2020,1 from Don Hayward alleging that the 
Bourne Planning Board (the “Board”), the Board Chair Steven Strojny, the Planning Department, 
and the Town Planner Coreen Moore2,3 violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about March 2, and you responded on 
behalf of the Board on March 31.4 The complaint alleges that the Board failed to post a 
sufficiently detailed meeting notice where it did not identify the specific zoning articles to be 
discussed at its February 13 meeting.5 
 
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
and find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request 
 
1 All dates in this determination are in 2020, unless otherwise stated.  
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
3 The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and their members; therefore, we decline to review any 
allegations that the Planning Department or Town Planner violated the Law. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
4 We note that the Board did not respond to the complaint within the 14 business days allowed under the Open 
Meeting Law. Although we appreciate that at the time the Board was responding to this complaint municipalities 
were acting quickly to respond to the public health emergency caused by the outbreak of the novel coronavirus, we 
remind the Board that if it believes it needs additional time to respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint, it must 
request an extension of time from the Director of the Division of Open Government. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 
29.05(5).   
5 The original complaint contained an additional allegation regarding a Host Community Agreement. In subsequent 
communications, the Complainant informed our office that he no longer wished to pursue this additional allegation.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
for further review, the notice for the February 13 meeting, and a video recording of the February 
13 meeting.6 We also communicated with the Chair by phone and email, and with the 
Complainant by email.    
 
The Open Meeting Law states, in relevant part, that meeting notices “shall contain . . . a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b). These topics must be listed with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the 
public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. 
See OML 2019-70.7 A public body need not list each and every detail about a topic in order to 
comply with the law’s requirements. See OML 2019-134. 
 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on February 13. Included on the notice 
was the topic “Discussion: Town Meeting zoning articles.” During the February 13 meeting the 
Town Planner presented several potential bylaw changes for the Board to consider submitting as 
articles to upcoming Town Meetings. In anticipation of this presentation, the Town Planner 
prepared a document listing the bylaws she planned to discuss. This document was distributed to 
the members of the Board the night of the meeting. After review of the video recording of the 
February 13 meeting, the materials submitted to our office, and discussion with the Chair, we 
find the notice topic “Discussion: Town Meeting zoning articles” was sufficiently detailed to 
inform the public of the anticipated nature of the discussion where the Chair anticipated that the 
Town Planner would present proposed zoning articles to the Board and the Chair did not 
anticipate any particular zoning articles would be discussed.8 See OML 2017-185. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Steven Strojny, Chair, Bourne Planning Board (via e-mail: ) 
Don Hayward (via e-mail: ) 
 
6 Recordings of the Board’s meetings may be found at https://www.bournetv.com/about/government/.  
7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
8 We note, for comparison, that after the discussion of zoning articles at the February 13 meeting, the notice for the 
Board’s next meeting did identify specific articles to be discussed.  

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 