===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
March 6, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 29 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Theresa A. Cofske 
Administrative Assistant 
Brimfield Select Board 
selectboard@brimfieldma.org  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Cofske: 
This office received a complaint from Paul McCarthy on January 26, 2023, alleging that 
the Brimfield Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 4, 2022, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated February 1, 2023. The complaint alleges that the 
Board discussed an improper topic during an executive session held on September 12, 2022.
 1 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
convened in executive session for an improper purpose. We do not find a violation of the Law in 
the other ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Board’s response to the complaints, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also 
reviewed the meeting notices, minutes and video recordings from the September 12 and October 
11 meetings. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
September 12 which included an executive session topic to “conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel, Ambulance Services.” At the 
September 12 meeting, Chair Martin Kelly announced that the Board would convene in 
executive session and stated the purpose as listed in the meeting notice. According to the minutes 
of the executive session, the discussion focused on the impending expiration of the current 
contract for ambulance services, whether to renew or explore choosing a different carrier, and the 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
possibility the current vendor committed a breach of contract, leaving the town without any 
ambulance coverage. After this discussion, Selectman Anthony Soto raised concerns over 
approving hours for the Treasurer and Assistant Treasurer without being provided any details or 
documents, as well as concerns regarding the Board’s Administrative Assistant. At three 
different points of this discourse, Chair Kelly asked Selectman Soto to stop raising these topics 
because they were beyond the scope of the executive session’s purpose and a violation of the 
Open Meeting Law.  
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
beration and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any of 
ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, provided that the chair of the public body 
first announces in open session the purpose for the executive session, “stating all subjects that 
may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.” 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of 
Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive 
session is necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only notification given to the 
public that the school Board would conduct business in private, and the only way the public 
would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper.”). This level of detail about the 
executive session topic should also be included in the meeting notice. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b); 
OML 2016-72. 2 One executive session purpose allows a public body to enter executive session 
“[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to 
conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”).
  
 
Although not raised in the complaint, as a threshold matter, we address the propriety of 
the stated purpose for the executive session on September 12. Purpose 2 is limited in scope, 
allowing public bodies to discuss in executive session union and non-union employee contracts 
only. A discussion of vendor or service contracts, such as retaining ambulance services from an 
outside vendor, is not appropriate for executive session under Purpose 2. See OML 2022-29; see 
also OML 2014-149 (finding discussions of negotiations with a law firm inappropriate for 
executive session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) and noting that “[t]he Legislature did not include 
preparation for negotiation of services agreements as one of the limited purposes for executive 
session.”). Therefore, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it convened in executive 
session for an improper purpose.  
 
The c
omplaint alleges that there was a discussion of topics not listed in the September 12 
meeting notice and that the discussion of these topics was not appropriate under the stated 
purpose for that executive session. Selectman Soto stated that he had issues concerning the 
approval of the Treasurer and Assistant Treasurers’ hours and apparent issues with the Board’s 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-m eeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Administrative Assistant. According to the executive session minutes, Chair Kelly recognized 
that the topics were improperly raised and prevented Selectman Soto on three separate occasions 
from continuing the discussion. Where a public body does not actually engage in any 
deliberation on a particular topic, it cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the 
sufficiency of the meeting notice. See OML 2019-94; OML 2016-76; OML 2015-37. Therefore, 
because it appears that there was no actual discussion of the unnoticed topics, we do not find a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it convened in executive session for an improper purpose. We order the Board’s immediate 
and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a determination 
by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate 
the Open Meeting Law. Because the Board has already approved and released the minutes from 
the executive session, we do not order any additional remedies.  
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Mary L. Nguyen 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Paul McCarthy (via e-mail: ) 
 Brimfield Town Clerk (via e-mail: TownClerk@brimfieldma.org) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
