===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACI -IUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
April 3, 2012 
2012 OML - 28 
Patricia A. Allen, Chair 
Montague Board of Selectmen 
1 Avenue A 
Turners Falls, MA 01376 
Dear Chair Allen: 
This office reviewed an Open Meeting Law complaint from Peter Golrick, dated June 6, 
2011, alleging that the Montague By-Law Review Committee (the "Committee") violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board of 
Selectmen (the "Board") "appointed a `By-Law Review Committee'," subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, which failed to comply with the law. The Board maintains that the Committee did 
not violate the law because it was not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. The 
complaint was filed with the Committee by letter on April 19, 2011, and the Committee 
responded through the Board on April 25, 2011. 
The plain language of the Open Meeting Law constrains us to find that the Committee 
was a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. We acknowledge that the same group of 
staff could have performed the same work without being subject to the Open Meeting Law if 
they had been assigned the task by the Town Manager, or another town official, and not the 
Board. But because the charge to review the bylaws came from the Board, and because the 
group met the definition of "public body" in all other respects, the Open Meeting Law requires 
us to find that the group constituted a sub-committee of the Board. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the April 19, 2011 complaint; the Committee's April 25, 2011 
response; and the June 6, 2011 complaint. Additionally, we reviewed documents provided by 
the complainant including: an April 13, 2011 Board document authorizing the creation of the 
Committee; a May 3, 2011 public records request; a May 18, 2011 letter from the Board sent to 
===PAGE 2===
our office; and emails between the Town Clerk and the Attorney General's Office. Finally, we 
reviewed the minutes of the Board's April 11, April 19, and April 25, 2011 meetings. 
FACTS 
The Montague Board of Selectmen voted unanimously to create a By-Law Review 
Committee at its April 4, 2011 meeting. The Committee consisted of seven members, all of 
whom were Town employees, including the Town Administrator, the Town Clerk, the Building 
Inspector, the Town Planner and Conservation Agent, the Director of Public Health, the Chief of 
Police, and the Superintendent of Public Works. According to the Board, members of the Town 
staff identified a number of flaws in Town by-laws that needed to be corrected or updated, and 
recommended to the Board that a by-law review committee be created to review all of the 
Town's by-laws. 
The Committee held a series of meetings that were not posted and not open to the public. 
The result of the Committee's work was a recommendation to the Board regarding Town by-law 
changes. The by-law changes were proposed to the Board on April 11, 2011, and approved by 
the Board to be presented at Town Meeting on May 7, 2011. 
DISCUSSION 
A "public body" subject to the Open Meeting Law is defined, in relevant part, as "a 
multiple-member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or 
legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, 
appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A 
"subcommittee" includes "any multiple-member body created to advise or make 
recommendations to a public body." Id. The Board asserts in its response to the original 
complaint that the Committee was "a special purpose, study committee, comprised entirely of 
town staff... [and] is not a subcommittee of the Board of Selectmen." The Board further asserts 
that the meetings of the Committee were "staff meetings in the truest sense of the word. Their 
actions are purely advisory in nature, and are made only in support of policy making decisions 
by the Board of Selectmen." 
To determine whether an entity is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, we 
generally consider three characteristics of all public bodies: 
1. The entity must be "within" government and not excluded from the definition 
of "public body"; and 
2. The entity must be a "body," empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a "public purpose." 
Here, the Committee was clearly within government, as it was formally created by a vote 
of the Board. The Committee was empowered to act collectively by reviewing the Town by-
laws and issuing a collective recommendation back to the Board. Finally, the Committee served 
a public purpose by reviewing the Town by-laws. Additionally, the Committee meets the 
definition of a subcommittee subject to the Open Meeting Law as it was a "multiple-member 
body created to advise or make recommendations" to the Board. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The Board argues that "[n]either the individual members of the By-Law Review 
Committee, nor members of their staff are 'public bodies' subject to the law. As such, 'they may 
meet with one another to discuss public business without needing to comply with Open Meeting 
[L]aw requirements." (quoting the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Guide, July 1, 2010). 
The full quotation from the Guide reads as follows: 
Neither individual government officials, such as a mayor or police chief, nor members of 
their staffs, are "public bodies" subject to the law, and so they may meet with one another 
to discuss public business without needing to comply with Open Meeting Law 
requirements. 
Individual public officials are not public bodies and therefore, generally, meetings 
between such officials or with their staff are not subject to the Open Meeting Law. However, 
where a public body creates a multiple-member body and charges it with advising the creating 
body on public policy through collective action, that entity will likely be a public body subject to 
the Open Meeting Law. Here, the Board was not directing its own staff to act (i.e. the Board's 
secretary or administrative staff), nor was it directing a specific Town department to act within 
the jurisdiction of that department (i.e. the planning department on a planning matter). The 
Board appointed members from a cross-section of Town offices to conduct a broad review of the 
Town's by-laws. That created a public body, and the public should therefore have been able to 
witness the deliberations of the Committee. 
While we are constrained by the language of the law to find as we do, we acknowledge 
that with only a slight change in the process to establish the Committee, it could have been 
created as a body that was not subject to the Open Meeting Law. Had the Board of Selectmen 
directed a single Town employee to review the bylaws and bring a recommendation back to the 
Board, and had that individual then established the Committee to advise him or her, the 
Committee would not have been a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. In those 
circumstances, the Committee would fall within an exemption to the Open Meeting Law 
recognized by the Supreme Judicial Court in Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover. 409 
Mass. 232 (1991). In Connelly, the Court held that where an individual public official creates a 
committee to advise that person on a decision that he or she has the sole authority to make, that 
committee is not subject to the Open Meeting Law. Connelly, 409 Mass at 235. However, 
where such an entity is created by a public body, this exception does not apply. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee was a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
Because the Committee did not follow the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, such as 
posting notice and holding open meetings, the Committee violated the law. However, we do not 
find that this was an intentional violation. We believe that the Board reasonably, although 
incorrectly, interpreted the Open Meeting Law to find that the Committee was not a public body. 
We therefore order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and issue this 
letter as future guidance. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during this investigation, and 
now consider this matter closed. 
JVathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-964-2045 
cc: 	 Peter Golrick 
Jeffrey Blake, Kopleman & Paige, P.C. 
4 