===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 28, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 240 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Christopher H. Heep, Esq. 
Harrington Heep, LLP  
cheep@harringtonheep.com 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Heep: 
 
This office received a complaint from Margaret Abruzese on July 10, 2023,
1 alleging that 
the Needham Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on June 8, and you responded on behalf of the 
Board by letter dated June 29. The complaint alleges that the Board met in executive session on 
May 9 for an improper purpose. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, the request for further review, and further response from both the Board and 
the Complainant. We also reviewed, in camera, redacted minutes for the Board’s May 9 
executive session and communicated by email and telephone with legal counsel for the Board.
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The complaint relates to a complex real estate 
negotiation in which the Board and Northland Residential Corporation (“Northland”) worked 
together to propose a joint offer to purchase 62 acres on Charles River Street in Needham (the 
“Foster Property”) owned by the Charles H.W. Foster 2000 Trust and the Barbara D. Foster 
Trust (the “Trusts”). The general framework of the deal involved Northland purchasing the 
Foster Property, a portion of which it would use for a residential development under M.G.L. 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
c.40B (the “40B Project”), with the Town purchasing approximately 33 acres of the Foster 
Property from Northland for $2,500,000. The deal was premised, at least in part, on the 40B 
Project being approved with 5 percent of the units being affordable units. On March 6, the Select 
Board voted in open session to approve a Development Agreement and Purchase and Sale 
Agreement with Northland. However, as of the time of the complaint, Northland had not signed 
these agreements.  
 
Prior to the Board’s May 9 executive session, the Board learned that the Department of 
Housing and Community Development (DHCD) had determined that it would not approve the 
40B Project with only 5 percent of the units being affordable units. Understanding that 
Northland’s agreement to pay its share of the purchase price was premised on its ability to 
develop the 40B Project with 5 percent of the units being affordable, the Board determined that it 
needed to meet in executive session to discuss how DHCD’s decision might impact the real 
estate negotiations overall and the Town’s role specifically.   
 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on May 9. The notice included, among 
other things, the topic “Executive Session Exception #6: Real Property – Foster Property, 
Charles River Street.” The minutes of the executive session have not been released to the public 
yet; therefore, we do not recount the executive session discussion in detail. However, we note 
that during the executive session the Board received updates regarding efforts that were being 
made to save the 40B Project and discussed with legal counsel the potential impact of DHCD’s 
decision to reject the 40B Project on the Town’s negotiations with Northland and with the Trusts, 
including potential impact to the Town’s purchase price.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
All meetings of a public body must be conducted in an open session, unless a closed-
door, exec
utive session is convened for one of ten permissible purposes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 
21(a). When meeting in executive session, a public body may only address subjects related to the 
narrow executive session purpose the public body cited for entering executive session. See 
District Atty. for the Northwestern Dist. v. Selectmen of Sunderland, 11 Mass. App. Ct. 663, 666 
(1981) (executive session may not be used as a blanket reason to deliberate on matters other than 
those pertaining to the specific purpose for which executive session was called). 
 
One such statutory purpose for executive session is to “consider the purchase, exchange, 
lease or
 value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the negotiating position of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) (“Purpose 6”). 
Purpose 6 is intended to preserve confidentiality in negotiating the value of the property to be 
purchased, exchanged or leased to avoid putting the public body at a disadvantage in its 
negotiations for the property. See District Attv. for the Plymouth Dist. v. Selectmen of 
Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 631 (1985); OML 2016-50; OML 2019-10.3 We construe 
Purpose 6 narrowly to permit a public body to meet in executive session to protect its negotiating 
position when seeking to purchase, exchange, or lease real estate, or to discuss the value of real 
estate, where it has a negotiating position relative to that property. See Allen v. Board of 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Selectmen of Belmont, 58 Mas s. App. Ct. 715, 719-721 (2003); OML 2018-49. General 
discussions regarding real property or the use of real property, where there is no negotiating 
position to protect, do not fall within the executive session purpose. See OML 2016-93, OML 
2015-167.  
 
We unde
rstand the Complainant to allege that the May 9 executive session was improper 
for two reasons: first, the Town did not have a negotiating position at the time of the executive 
session because it was contemplating purchasing a portion of the Foster Property from Northland 
and Northland had not yet purchased the Foster Property; and second, that it was improper to 
discuss the 40B Project in executive session.  
 
With respect to the first assertion, we have generally sai
 d that where all of the terms of a 
Purchase and Sales Agreement have been agreed on, a public body’s use of Purpose 6 expires 
because the negotiation is complete. See OML 2016-46; OML 2012-52; OML 2014-36. Here, 
however, it is clear that the negotiations were not yet fully complete. Indeed, Northland had not 
signed the agreements with the Town and the Town had learned new information about the 40B 
Project that threw into question whether the deal would move forward at all. Specifically, the 
new information raised questions regarding whether Northland would still be willing to pay its 
share of the original purchase price, whether the Town would be asked to pay a larger portion of 
the purchase price, or whether the purchase price would need to change entirely. Therefore, we 
find that the Board did have a negotiating position to protect when it met in executive session on 
May 9. 
 
Next
, we address the assertion that it was improper for the Board to discuss the 40B 
Project in executive session. In support of this assertion the complaint cites to our determination 
OML 2020-158. In OML 2020-158 we found that a board of selectmen had improperly met in 
executive session to discuss a 40B project. We found that the board was not a party to any real 
estate transaction; instead, the developer had acquired the property through a private transaction 
years prior, and during the executive session the board discussed topics related to the 
development agreement such as town meeting warrant articles, a liquor license, and zoning 
changes. Although the agreement also included a lease to the town of office space, we found that 
the board did not discuss strategy with respect to the lease. Unlike in OML 2020-158, here the 
Board had a direct negotiating position to protect and its discussions related to the potential 
impact of DHCD’s decision to reject the 40B Project on the Board’s own real estate negotiations. 
Therefore, we find that the Board met in executive session on May 9 for a proper purpose. 
 
Finally, we note that in the request for further review the Complainant raises concerns 
about t
he propriety of executive session meetings regarding the Foster Property held over the 
prior year. We decline to review these allegations as they were not first raised in a complaint 
filed with the Board; we offer no opinion regarding the propriety of any executive session 
meetings other than the one held on May 9. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3). See 
also OML 2012-92; OML 2022-162, n.3.  
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law when it convened in executive session on May 9. We now consider the complaint addressed 
by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints 
that may be pending with the Board or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at 
(617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
 
Sincerely, 
        
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Marianne B. Cooley, Chair, Needham Select Board   
(via email: mcooley@needhamma.gov)  
Theodora Eaton, Town Clerk (via email: teaton@needhamma.gov) 
Margaret Abruzese (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
