===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
March 23, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 –  37 
 
 
Peter DeTerra 
Chair, Board of Health  
Town Hall 
40 Center Street 
Fairhaven, MA 02719 
 
By email only:  
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Mr. DeTerra: 
 
This office received six complaints on November 30, 2020, from Amy Singelais alleging 
that the Fairhaven Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1  Four complaints were originally filed with the Board between September 21 and 
September 23, and Board Chair Peter DeTerra responded, on behalf of the Board, by separate 
letters dated October 6.  The remaining two complaints were originally filed with the Board on 
October 26, and Board Chair Peter DeTerra responded, on behalf of the Board, by separate 
letters dated November 17.  These six complaints generally allege that the Board did one or more 
of the following: discussed certain topics not listed on a meeting notice, failed to timely approve 
meeting minutes, failed to timely notify an individual that she would be discussed in executive 
session, and improperly utilized the Rule of Necessity.  These allegations are alleged to have 
occurred during Board meetings held on August 24, September 10, and September 28.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged.  We find discussed below.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaints, the Board’s responses to the complaints, and the complaint filed with our 
office requesting further review.  We also reviewed the notices and open session minutes of 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Board meetings held on August 24, September 10, and September 28, as well as video recordings 
of those three meetings.2   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  Since August 7, 2017, Mary Freire-Kellogg was the Health 
Agent for the Town of Fairhaven.  Between July 17 and August 17, Ms. Freire-Kellogg was on 
medical leave and was thereafter placed on paid administrative leave until she was terminated by 
the Board on September 28. 
 
On August 18 at 12:54 P.M., the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
Monday, August 24 at 3:30 P.M.  The notice listed 13 topics, including approval of ten sets of 
meeting minutes, Personnel Discussion of Mary Freire-Kellogg, and an executive session for 
“Personnel Discussion” under Purpose 1.  On August 19 at 4:24 p.m., the Board revised its 
notice to include one additional topic, “Open Meeting Law Complaint Discussion” regarding 
three meetings in July and one in August. 
 
The August 24 meeting was held as planned.  During the meeting, the Board approved 
minutes of meetings held on August 6 and August 10 but explained that it could not approve 
minutes of meetings held between May 28 and July 30 because these minutes appear to “have 
been deleted off of the server” or altered.  The Board discussed the other noticed open session 
topics, including the lack of marina inspections and permits, the approval of a septic plan and 
food establishment permits, and four open meeting law complaints it had received regarding its 
July 9, July 16, July 28, and August 6 meetings. 
 
The Board then began to discuss Ms. Freire-Kellogg and asked both her and her attorney 
whether such “personnel discussions” should be in open or executive session; her attorney stated 
that the matter should be discussed in open session.  The Board’s legal counsel, Attorney 
Thomas Crotty, stated that Ms. Freire-Kellogg would remain on paid administrative leave.  Ms. 
Freire-Kellogg’s attorney stated that she had been on medical leave for a specified period of time 
but that time had passed, she was now ready to return to work, and wanted to know why she 
could not resume her position as Health Agent.  Board member Michael Ristuccia then 
responded to allegations raised in the media and on Facebook regarding his interactions with Ms. 
Freire-Kellogg.  Mr. Ristuccia denied yelling at Ms. Freire-Kellogg and read a statement written 
by a Board of Selectmen member who had witnessed the interaction.  Board member Geoffrey 
Haworth expressed his view that Ms. Freire-Kellogg should remain on administrative leave until 
various issues within the Health Department could be investigated, including the deleted meeting 
minutes and the failure to conduct marina inspections and issue permits.  The Board then voted 
by majority vote to keep Ms. Freire-Kellogg on paid administrative leave.  The Board did not 
convene in executive session. 
 
 
2 A video recording of the Board’s August 24 meeting is available at 
https://livestream.com/fairhavenlive/events/7292513/videos/210222457 ; a video recording of the Board’s 
September 10 meeting is available at https://livestream.com/fairhavenlive/events/7292513/videos/210822759; a 
video recording of the Board’s September 28 meeting is available at 
https://livestream.com/fairhavenlive/events/7292513/videos/211479732.   
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
On September 4 at 11:02 A.M., the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
Thursday, September 10 at 4:00 P.M.  The notice listed fifteen topics, including approval of nine 
sets of meeting minutes, Personnel Discussion of Mary Freire-Kellogg, and an executive session 
for “Personnel Discussion” under Purpose 1 and Potential Litigation under Purpose 3.  On 
September 8, the Board provided written notice of the executive session to Ms. Freire-Kellogg’s 
attorney via email, and written notice to Ms. Freire-Kellogg via mail.  
 
The September 10 meeting was held as planned.  During the meeting, the Board approved 
minutes of the meeting held on August 24 and explained that it was still working to retrieve 
minutes of meetings held between May 28 and July 30.  The Board then discussed the other 
noticed open session topics, including the approval of bathing beach and marina permits, septic 
installer permits and a food establishment permit, and a Title V inspection. 
 
The Board then turned to the “Personnel Discussion” of Ms. Freire-Kellogg, who was not 
present at the meeting.  Mr. Haworth explained that Ms. Freire-Kellogg would remain on 
administrative leave for two more weeks.  The Board did not convene in executive session 
pursuant to Purpose 1 but did convene in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3 to discuss 
potential litigation regarding a discrimination claim.  
 
On September 24 at 2:29 P.M., the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
Monday, September 28 at 4:00 P.M.  The notice listed twelve topics, including approval of ten 
sets of meeting minutes, Personnel Discussion of Mary Freire-Kellogg, and an executive session 
for “Personnel Discussion” under Purpose 1 and Potential Litigation under Purpose 3.  Forty-
eight hours prior to the September 28 meeting, the Board provided written notice of the 
executive session to Ms. Freire-Kellogg via mail.  The written notice stated that the Board 
intended to discuss seven matters “concerning [her] continued employment as health agent,” 
including failure to obtain a soil evaluator’s license, lack of oversight of department personnel, 
failure to issue marina and bathing permits, inability to work with Board members and 
communicate in a professional manner, and failure to comply with Town regulations. 
 
The September 28 meeting was held as planned and two Board members, Chair DeTerra 
and Mr. Haworth, met in the Banquet Room of the Fairhaven Town Hall while Mr. Ristuccia 
participated remotely.  Mr. Ristuccia later joined the meeting in person at Town Hall.  During the 
meeting, the Board approved minutes of meetings held on May 28, June 11, June 18, July 9, July 
10, July 16, July 28, July 30, and September 10.  The Board discussed the other noticed open 
session topics, including the approval of a septic plan and a food establishment plan, and heard 
from applicants regarding a subdivision plan. 
 
The Board then turned to the “Personnel Discussion” of Ms. Freire-Kellogg and asked 
both her and her attorney whether such discussions should be in open or executive session; her 
attorney stated that the matters should be discussed in open session.  The Board reviewed and 
discussed each of the seven topics that had been listed in the letter sent to Ms. Freire-Kellogg 
prior to the meeting and then gave her an opportunity to respond to each of the allegations.3  
 
3 Although not raised in the complaints, we note that several times during the personnel discussion with Ms. Freire-
Kellogg, Mr. Ristuccia, who was participating remotely, was either difficult to hear or became disconnected.  
Approximately one hour into the meeting, Mr. Ristuccia was disconnected from the meeting and the Board took a 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Specifically, during the discussions regarding her failure to comply with Town regulations, the 
Board discussed the fact that she kept chickens on her property without a permit.  Mr. Haworth 
then mentioned that her garage was in a dilapidated state which also did not comply with town 
by-laws.  After discussing all of the seven topics and giving Ms. Freire-Kellogg the opportunity 
to respond to each allegation, the Board voted by majority vote to dismiss Ms. Freire-Kellogg as 
Health Agent.  The Board did not convene in executive session. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We Decline to Review Two Complaints Because They Either Raise 
Allegations that Do Not Constitute a Violation of the Open Meeting Law 
or that Have Been Previously Addressed. 
 
 One of the complaints alleges that the Board did not use the “‘Rule of Necessity’ 
properly or legally.”  The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  Even if true, the allegation in this complaint 
regarding a violation of the Rule of Necessity, which allows a public body member to participate 
in a meeting even though he is disqualified due to a conflict of interest because, without the 
member’s participation, the public body would not otherwise have a quorum, would not 
constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  As such, we decline to review this matter.  See 
OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners); OML 
Declination 5-21-12 (Hampden-Wilbraham Regional School Committee).4  We offer no opinion 
on whether any actions taken by the Board could be a violation of some other law or regulation 
outside the scope of the Division’s review.   
 
Another complaint alleges that the Board failed to timely approve eight sets of minutes of 
meetings held between May 28 and July 30.5  We decline to review this allegation because we 
have already decided the issue in a previous determination.  See OML 2020-156.  In that 
determination, issued on December 4, we concluded that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to approve minutes in a timely manner where it did not approve minutes of its 
May 28, June 11, June 18, July 9, July 16, July 28 and July 30 meetings until September 28, 
which was between its fifth and eleventh meeting thereafter, and more than 30 days later.  See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); 940 CMR 29.11 (public bodies must create and approve meeting minutes in 
a timely manner, which means within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, 
whichever is later).  Because we have already decided this issue, we do not address it here.   
 
recess to address this technical difficulty.  The minutes do not reflect either the recess or that Mr. Ristuccia had 
become disconnected from the meeting, as required by the Open Meeting Law Regulations.  See 940 CMR 
29.10(6)(d) (if technical difficulties result in a remote participant being disconnected from the meeting, that fact and 
the time at which the disconnection occurred must be noted in the meeting minutes).  We remind the Board of its 
obligations under the law and recommend that the Board amend the minutes of the September 28 meeting. 
4 Open Meeting Law declinations and determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.msss.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
5 The complaint includes July 10 as one set of meeting minutes that were not approved in a timely manner.  
Although the Board approved minutes of the July 10 meeting, the Board did not have a quorum of members present 
on July 10 and therefore the Board technically did not have a meeting, which would require the creation and 
approval of minutes.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (meeting is a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter 
within the body’s jurisdiction; deliberation is an oral or written communication through any medium between or 
among a quorum of a public body).   
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
II. We Find that the Board Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by 
Discussing Topics Not listed on the August 24 and September 28 Meeting 
Notices.   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Id.  The list of topics 
shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35.   
 
A public body need not list each and every detail about a topic in order to comply with 
the law’s requirements.  See OML 2014-122.  Moreover, the Open Meeting Law does not require 
a public body to anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion, only that it 
identify the discussion topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 
2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38. 
 
 Two of the complaints allege that the Board discussed topics that were not listed on the 
notices for the Board meetings held on August 24 and September 28.  Specifically, the 
complaints allege that Board member Michael Ristuccia discussed allegations raised in the media 
and on Facebook regarding his interactions with Ms. Freire-Kellogg during the August 24 
meeting and Board member Geoffrey Haworth discussed the dilapidated state of Ms. Freire-
Kellogg’s garage during the September 28 meeting where both matters were not specifically 
listed on the respective meeting notices.  The notices for both the August 24 and September 28 
meetings included a topic for “Personnel Discussion” of Mary Freire-Kellogg.  During the 
August 24 meeting, the Board discussed whether Ms. Freire-Kellogg should remain on paid 
administrative leave and Mr. Ristuccia expressed his concerns regarding social media posts that 
he had yelled at Ms. Freire-Kellogg.  During the September 28 meeting, the Board discussed 
seven specific matters concerning Ms. Freire-Kellogg’s continued employment as health agent, 
one of which was her failure to comply with Town regulations.  Mr. Haworth explained that such 
failure included having chickens without a permit and the dilapidated state of a garage on her 
property.  We find that these discussions naturally flowed from the Board’s consideration of the 
posted agenda topic and therefore the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 
2020-99. 
  
III. The Board Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Provide 
Ms. Freire-Kellogg with Certain Procedural Rights as Required under 
Executive Session Purpose 1.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  A public body may enter an 
executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of members of the body 
have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and 
entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether the open session will 
reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 
2014-94.   
 
One permissible reason for a public body to convene in executive session is to “discuss 
the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health ... of an individual, or to discuss the 
discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or  charges brought against, a public officer, employee, 
staff member or individual.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”).  When a public body plans 
to convene in executive session pursuant to Purpose 1, the individual who is the subject of 
discussion has the right to “be notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the 
proposed executive session”  Id.  That individual also has the right to be present during executive 
session deliberations which involve that individual; to have counsel present for the purpose of 
advising the individual and not for the purpose of active participation; to speak on her own 
behalf; and to cause an independent record to be created of said executive session by audio-
recording or transcription, at the individual's expense.  Id.  However, if the individual requests 
that the session be open, the public body must hold the discussion in open session.  Id. 
 
Two complaints allege that the Board failed to provide Ms. Freire-Kellogg with 48 hours’ 
notice prior to the proposed executive session on September 10.  On September 8, the Board 
mailed a certified letter to Ms. Freire-Kellogg advising her that the Board intended to discuss 
certain matters “concerning [her] continued employment” as health agent during an executive 
session to be held on September 10.  The complaints suggest that the letter was not actually 
delivered to Ms. Freire-Kellogg until September 10, the day of the meeting.  We need not resolve 
this discrepancy here because we find that the Board also sent an email to Ms. Freire-Kellogg’s 
attorney on September 8 advising him of the intended executive session discussions regarding 
his client for the Board’s September 10 meeting.  Nonetheless, we note that the discussions 
regarding Ms. Freire-Kellogg took place in open session rather than executive session. 
 
Another complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it did not 
allow Ms. Freire-Kellogg to speak on her own behalf during the August 24 meeting.  At the 
request of Ms. Freire-Kellogg, the discussion about her took place in open session rather than 
executive session.  An individual who would otherwise have a right to speak on her own behalf 
during a Purpose 1 executive session does not have an analogous right if the same discussion is 
held in open session.  See OML 2017-125; OML 2014-23; OML 2013-64; OML 2012-59.  
Therefore, because it is within the chair’s discretion to limit public participation during a 
meeting, the chair did not violate the Open Meeting Law by preventing Ms. Freire-Kellogg from 
addressing the Board in open session.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f) (no person shall address a 
meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of 
the chair, be silent).  However, we encourage public bodies to allow public participation during 
meetings to the extent time and circumstances permit.  See OML 2015-12. 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  We now consider the 
complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address 
any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board.  Please feel free to 
contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.  
       
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:   Amy Singelais – By email only:  
 Thomas P. Crotty, Esq. – By email only:  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
 
