===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 10, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 241 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Alexander M. Castro, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
alex@mtclawyers.com  
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Castro: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on July 30, 2024,
1 alleging that the 
Marblehead Board of Assessors (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 1, and, after an extension of 
time granted by our office, you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated July 30. The 
complaint alleges that, with respect to its June 20 meeting, the Board 1) “held an illegal 
executive session,” and 2) failed to list on the notice the date of the meeting minutes to be 
approved. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, and the request for further review. We also reviewed the notice for the Board’s 
June 20 meeting, the executive session minutes of that meeting, and the Town’s municipal 
website for meeting notices. Finally, we communicated with Town Counsel via email.
2 
 
First, with respect to the Board’s June 20 executive session, we under stand the 
Complainant’s concern to be that the Board cited to G.L. c. 59, § 60 (which relates to tax 
abatements) as the statutory authority for entering executive session to conduct strategy sessions 
in preparation for negotiation with non-union personnel, rather than citing to the Open Meeting 
Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1)-(10). However, as was made clear in the Board’s response, 
which included a copy of the executive session minutes, the Board did not discuss contract 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
negotiations or any other substantive matter in executive session on June 20. Instead, the Board 
convened in executive session and the Chair shared advice he had received from legal counsel 
explaining that the Board likely did not have a proper basis for convening in executive session. 
Upon receiving this advice, the Board voted to adjourn the executive session. We have explained 
that “we will not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law where a public body member 
attempts to warn other public body members against violating the Open Meeting Law.” OML 
2018-6; see also OML 2021-112.
3 That is precisely what occurred here. Moreover, the Board did 
not discuss tax abatements or personnel negotiations during the executive session. When a public 
body does not actually discuss a topic, it cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to 
the sufficiency of that meeting notice topic. See OML 2015-111; OML 2015-63. Therefore, we 
find no violation with respect to the complaint’s first allegation.  
 
 Next, we also find no violation with respect to the complaint’s second allegation. The 
compla
int alleges that the notice topic “Review and Approval of Minutes from previous board 
meeting” was insufficient where it did not state the date of the meeting for which minutes would 
be reviewed. During the June 20 meeting the Board reviewed and approved the minutes of its 
June 13 meeting, the meeting that occurred immediately prior to the June 20 meeting. This office 
has now twice explained to the Complainant that identifying meeting minutes to be reviewed as 
minutes of the prior meeting rather than by specific date is sufficient. See OML 2021-57; OML 
2023-192. As we have before, we discourage the Complainant from filing Open Meeting Law 
complaints containing such allegations. Filing complaints containing meritless allegations wastes 
both municipal and Commonwealth resources.  
 
For the
 reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Marblehead Board of Assessors c/o Todd Laramie, Assistant Assessor  
(via email: assessors@marblehead.org)  
Robin A. Michaud, Town Clerk (via email: Clerk@Marblehead.Org) 
Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 