===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 12, 2016 
OML 2016-94 
Lisa L. Mead, Esq. 
Blatman, Bobrowski, Mead & Talerman, LLC 
30 Green Street 
Newburyport, MA 01950 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Mead: 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan, dated May 25, alleging that the 
Ashland Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 10, and the Board responded by 
letter dated April 21. In his complaint, Mr. Morgan alleges that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by: (i) posting an insufficiently specific meeting notice; (ii) failing to list all 
anticipated documents to be used at a meeting in the notice; (iii) failing to provide meeting 
minutes within the time frame required by law; (iv) declining to post meeting minutes to the 
Board's website; (v) failing to provide documents and exhibits at a meeting; (vi) providing 
insufficient information about a topic to be discussed in executive session; and (vii) entering 
executive session without the proper statutory procedure. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed a copy of the notices for the 
meetings held on March 16 and April 6; the video recording of the March 16 meeting on the 
• • 2 
Ashland Cable Access Corporation website; a copy of the minutes for the meeting held on 
March 16 and executive session held on April 6; and a copy of two emails sent by Mr. Morgan to 
the Ashland Town Clerk on March 30 and April 7. We also spoke with the Board's legal 
counsel by telephone on June 6 and 8. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 See http://wacatv.com/videos/?search_title=Board%20of%20Selectmen 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board posted notice for a meeting to take place on 
March 16. The notice listed the location of the meeting as simply "Town Hall." The notice 
contained the topic heading "Town Manager Reports," underneath which it listed "FY17 Budget 
Update" and the "2016 Annual Town Meeting Warrant Update." The Board held the March 16 
meeting as planned. Mr. Morgan was present at this meeting. During the discussion of the 
budget and the town meeting warrants, Mr. Morgan requested copies of the supporting 
documents and exhibits that the Board members were referencing in their discussion. Several 
members, including Selectman Yolanda Greaves, told him that he could not have copies of those 
documents at the meeting because they were still draft. At the conclusion of the meeting, the 
Board voted to continue the discussion until April 6. 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to take place on April 6. The notice listed the 
location of the meeting as "Town Hall - Room A." The second item on the notice was 
"Executive Session - To consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the 
chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of 
the public body." The executive session minutes from this meeting have not yet been released. 
The Board held the April 6 meeting as planned. Chair Joseph Magnani moved to go into 
executive session "[t]o consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property as the 
chair declare[d] that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position 
of the public body." Selectman Steven Mitchell seconded this motion, and the vote was 
unanimous. Before entering executive session, the Board announced that it would not reconvene 
in open session. The scheduled executive session concerned the Town's potential purchase of 
property, for which it had not yet made an offer. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The March 16 Meeting Notice was Sufficiently Specific, but the Board should 
Include the Address of the Meeting Tocation in Future Notices. 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post a meeting notice 48 hours in 
advance of a meeting and include "the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member 
of the public could read the topic and understand what the nature of the public body's discussion 
will be. See OML 2016-38; OML 2015-74.4 
The complaint first alleges that the March 16 meeting notice was insufficiently specific 
because it failed to provide enough detail with regards to several items. While the complaint 
does not specify which items were insufficiently specific, we note that Mr. Morgan spoke during 
the topics regarding the "FY17 Budget Update" and "2016 Annual Town Meeting Warrant 
Update." We find that most of the topic headings on the meeting notice list specific item 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
descriptions underneath the headings that advise the public of the topics to be discussed, and thus 
we conclude that the notice is sufficiently specific. For example, the items "FY17 Budget 
Update" and "2016 Annual Town Meeting Warrant Update" are listed under the topic heading 
"Town Manager Reports," which we find was sufficient to advise members of the public that the 
Town Manager was going to report on various fiscal and budgetary matters and topics to be 
discussed at the annual town meeting. The complaint also alleges that the Board failed to list on 
the meeting notice which documents it planned to use during the March 16 meeting. While the 
Open Meeting Law does require a public body to list "documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting" in its minutes, there is no requirement that a public body list all documents and other 
exhibits in its meeting notice. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b), 22(a). Thus, the Board did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law by declining to list the documents to be used at its March 16 meeting in its 
meeting notice. 
While not raised in the complaint, we note that the March 16 meeting notice could be 
viewed as insufficiently specific with respect to the meeting location. Generally, a public body 
should provide the street address of the meeting location. See OML 2016-38. The March 16 and 
April 6 meeting notices listed the meeting location as the "Town Hall," but failed to provide the 
actual street address for the Town Hall. While most town residents may know the location of the 
Town Hall, those who are unfamiliar with the location of the building may be prevented from 
attending Board meetings. Although we find the omission was harmless here, the Board should 
include the street address of meeting locations in its future meeting notices. 
IT The Board is not Required to Post its Meeting Minutes or Supporting Documents 
Online. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that "[m]inutes of all open sessions shall be created and 
approved in a timely manner." G.L c. 30A, § 22(c). Furthermore, the Law requires that open 
session minutes "whether approved or in draft form, shall be made available upon request by any 
person within 10 days." Id. 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to provide Mr. Morgan with meeting minutes 
upon request and also failed to timely post the March 16 meeting minutes online "as required by 
OML and records law." There is no requirement in the Open Meeting Law that meeting minutes 
be posted online. See OML 2014-12. Therefore, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by not posting the March 16 meeting minutes on its website. Furthermore, we find no 
evidence that Mr. Morgan requested the March 16 meeting minutes from the Board, and thus the 
Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in not providing a copy of the meeting minutes to 
him within ten days of the March 16 meeting.5 
5 We find that Mr. Morgan did submit minutes requests to the Ashland Town Clerk for the March 30 and April 6 
Board meetings in emails dated March 31 and April 7 respectively. It is unclear whether the minutes for these 
meetings have been provided to Mr. Morgan. However, because the complaint here only concerns the timely release 
of minutes for the March 16 meeting, we decline to address the requests for the minutes of meetings held on March 
30 and April 6. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
III. While we Encourage Public Bodies to do so. the Open Meeting Law does not 
Require Public Bodies to Distribute Copies of Documents Used During a 
Meeting. However, the Board Should Include a List of Documents Used in its 
Minutes. 
All documents and other exhibits used by a public body at an open or executive session 
meeting "shall, along with the minutes, be part of the official record of the session." G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(d). Furthermore, all documents and exhibits used during an open meeting "shall be 
public records in their entirety and not exempt from disclosure pursuant to any of the 
exemptions" to the public records law, although certain material may be exempt from disclosure 
to the public as personnel information. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e). Although documents used by a 
public body during an open meeting must be provided in response to a public records request, 
there is no requirement in the Open Meeting Law that the public body affirmatively provide 
copies of those documents to persons in attendance at a meeting. See OML 2015-199. If the 
documents are requested by an attendee during the meeting, the public body's response is 
governed by the Public Records Law, which requires only that the public body respond to the 
request within ten days. See G.L. c. 66, § 10(a-b); 950 CMR 32.05(2); OML 2015-199. 
Here, the Board was not required to provide Mr. Morgan with the documents he 
requested during the meeting, and therefore the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
declining to do so. Although we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law, we 
strongly encourage public bodies, whenever feasible, to provide meeting attendees with copies of 
all documents it intends to discuss. Particularly where viewing such documents would be helpful 
to following the conversation during the meeting, providing copies of documents that the Board 
intends to discuss promotes transparency and public access to government deliberations. See 
OML 2015-199. 
While not raised in the complaint, we note that the Board failed to include a list of 
documents used at the March 16 meeting in the minutes. All documents and exhibits used 
during a meeting of a public body must be listed in the minutes. G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(a). The Open 
Meeting Law does not define what it means for a document to be used at a meeting but, at a 
minimum, it is clear that where a document is physically present, verbally identified, and the 
contents are discussed by the members of a public body during an open meeting, it has been 
"used" for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-12; OML 2012-42. Here, 
documents were physically present, verbally identified, and their contents were discussed during 
the "FY17 Budget Update" and "2016 Annual Town Meeting Warrant Update" portions of the 
March 16 meeting. Despite this, the minutes of this meeting do not list any documents used. We 
remind the Board of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law to include a list of such 
documents in its meeting minutes. 
IV. The Board Provided Sufficient Notice Regarding the Executive Session Topic. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened for one of ten statutorily 
enumerated purposes. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. One such purpose for executive 
session is Purpose 6, "[t]o consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the 
chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of 
the public body." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) ("Purpose 6"). Purpose 6 is intended to preserve 
4 
===PAGE 5===
confidentiality in negotiating the value of the property to be purchased, exchanged or leased to 
avoid putting the public body at a disadvantage in its negotiations for the property. See District 
Atty. For the Plymouth Dist. v. Selectmen of Middleborough. 395 Mass. 629, 631 (1985); OML 
2016-50. When noticing an executive session pursuant to Purpose 6, a public body must identify 
the property to be discussed if doing so would not compromise the purpose for which the 
executive session was called. See OML 2014-136; OML 2013-97; OML 2012-52. 
The complaint alleges that the Board improperly entered into executive session on April 
6 "without providing to the public information regarding the specific topic." However, we find 
that these discussions concerned the possible purchase or lease of real property by the Town and 
that the Board was justifiably concerned that disclosing specific information regarding the 
property would generate public interest in it and compromise the Town's negotiating position. 
Therefore, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by omitting identifying 
information regarding the property under consideration. It was sufficient that the meeting notice 
specified, and that the chair publicly stated, that the executive session regarded the "purchase, 
exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body." This description gave the 
public an understanding of the topics to be discussed in executive session without compromising 
the negotiating position of the Board. 
V. The Board Followed Proper Procedure for Entering Executive Session. 
Before entering executive session, a public body must follow several required 
procedures, including first convening in open session and having the chair state "all subjects that 
may be revealed without compromising the purpose" of the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(b). Furthermore, the law requires that the chair state publicly before the executive session 
that an open meeting would compromise the negotiating position of the public body. G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(6); see also OML 2014-136. 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to convene in open session before entering 
executive session and that the chair failed to state the topics to be covered in executive session. 
However, after reviewing the executive session minutes from the April 6 meeting, which have 
not yet been released, we find that the Board followed the required procedures for entering 
executive session. Although we do not recount the details of those minutes, we note that the 
Board first convened in open session before unanimously voting to enter executive session. 
Furthermore, Chair Magnani publicly stated before entering executive session all subjects that 
could be revealed without compromising the purpose of the executive session, as well as publicly 
stated that holding the discussion in an open meeting would have a detrimental effect on the 
negotiating position of the public body. As already discussed above, because revealing the 
identity of the property under consideration would compromise the negotiating position of the 
public body, the Board was not required to publicly disclose the property before entering 
executive session. For these reasons, we find that the Board properly convened the April 6 
executive session. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
5 
===PAGE 6===
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc; Stephen Morgan 
Ashland Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
6 