===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
October 31, 2011 
OML 2011 - 44 
Darren Klein, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch St. 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Klein: 
This office received a complaint from Maria Capobianco and the Stoughton 
Teachers Association dated December 23, 2010, alleging that the Stoughton School 
Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about October 25, 2010, 
listing Ms. Capobianco as the sole complainant and alleging violations relating to the 
Committee's September 28, 2010 meeting.1  Specifically, the October 25, 2010 complaint 
alleges that 1) the notice for the September 28, 2010 meeting "did not include 'a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting"; 2) the 
Committee "met in executive session without the chair first stating 'the purpose for the 
executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called"; and 3) the Committee "met in 
executive session to discuss the professional competence of the Superintendent." The 
Committee responded to the original complaint in a letter dated November 10, 2010. The 
Complainant subsequently alleged an additional violation in the December 23, 2010 
complaint, relating to the specificity of the Committee's notice for its October 12, 2010 
meeting. 
We reviewed the complaints dated October 25, 2010 and December 23, 2010; the 
Committee's November 10, 2010 response; the meeting notice, open and executive 
1  The Memorandum attached to the October 25, 2010 complaint stated, "Complainant reserves the right to 
amend this list of violations as more information becomes available." The Office of the Attorney General 
will not investigate allegations raised for the first time in a complaint filed with the Office. Potential 
violations discovered after a complaint has been filed with a public body should be alleged in a subsequent 
complaint filed with that body. This allows the public body an opportunity to investigate and take 
appropriate remedial action with regard to the additional allegations. 
===PAGE 2===
session minutes, and video recording of the open session portion of the Committee's 
September 28, 2010 meeting; a January 26, 2011 letter from the Committee to our office 
in response to a request for documents; the open and executive session minutes from the 
August 24 and September 14, 2010 meetings; the open session minutes from the October 
12 and October 26, 2010 meetings; a February 13, 2011 letter to our office from School 
Committee Member Dr. Erdem Ural; a March 1, 2011 letter from the Complainant to our 
office; and a March 2, 2011 letter from the Committee to our office. Finally, we 
conducted telephone interviews in April 2011 with Committee Chairman Thomas 
Colburn, Committee Member Dr. Erdem Ural, and Superintendent Dr. Marguerite Rizzi. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties as we considered this complaint. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law in three separate instances. The Committee failed to list topics with sufficient 
specificity in its meeting notice for the September 28, 2010 meeting, as required by G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(b) and 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b).2  In addition, the Committee failed to follow 
proper procedures for entering executive session during that meeting, in violation of G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(b). Finally, while we find that the Committee acted appropriately when it 
entered executive session to conduct contract negotiations with the Superintendent, we 
find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it voted on the 
Superintendent's contract extension in executive session rather than during an open 
session. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. On 
June 30, 2010, Dr. Rizzi completed her first year as Superintendent of the Stoughton 
Public Schools. The term of Dr. Rizzi's employment, according to her original contract, 
was three years — from July 1, 2009 until June 30, 2012. 
On August 24, 2010, the Committee met and the open session minutes reflect that 
"Superintendent's evaluation" was a topic of discussion under "Old Business." At this 
time, according to the minutes, Dr. Rizzi had completed "a report for the first one 
hundred days." The Committee discussed timing for sharing that report. Later in the 
meeting, "the Committee was polled and a unanimous roll call vote taken to adjourn the 
open session and convene in Executive Session for the purpose of a negotiations, 
grievance update and pending litigations."3  During the executive session, the 
Superintendent's evaluation was discussed further. The minutes reflect that, "Nile 
process in which the superintendent will be evaluated was discussed. Deliberation will 
be in open session and contract discussions will be in executive session."4  
2  Though the violation was not properly alleged in a complaint with the public body, it does appear that the 
notice for the October 12, 2010 meeting similarly failed to include specific detail. 
3  We note that the same reason was cited as the purpose for executive session in each of the five meetings 
whose minutes we reviewed. 
4  Though not raised in the complaint, we note that procedures for conducting an evaluation are not an 
appropriate subject for executive session. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The Committee met again on September 14, 2010. The open session minutes for 
this meeting also reflect discussion of the Superintendent's evaluation. The 
"Superintendent's End of Year Report-2010," a self-evaluation prepared by Dr. Rizzi, 
was discussed in some detail. According to the minutes, Committee Member Sovinee 
"listed areas [where] she has seen positive growth" and Chairman Colburn noted that "He 
would like to see continued improvement on providing information to the community." 
Chairman Colburn then stated he would "collect the evaluations from the School 
Committee members and review with Dr. Rizzi." Later in the meeting, "the Committee 
was polled and a unanimous roll call vote taken to adjourn the open session and convene 
in Executive Session for the purpose of a negotiations, grievance update and pending 
litigations." During the executive session, "Dr. Rizzi's potential contract length and 
salary increases" were discussed. The executive session minutes do not provide any 
detail of the discussion beyond that single sentence, however in his interview with this 
office, Dr. Ural stated that they discussed Dr. Rizzi's request to raise her salary so it was 
in line with comparable superintendents, and possibly other Town officials. 
Sometime after the September 14, 2010 meeting, but before the Committee's 
September 28, 2010 meeting, Committee members submitted their individual written 
evaluations of the Superintendent to Chairman Colburn for compilation into a single 
document. During that same time period, Dr. Rizzi indicated to Chairman Colburn that 
she was being courted by at least one other school system, but wanted to stay in 
Stoughton if she could obtain some assurance of job security. According to Dr. Rizzi, 
she did not want to wait until the end of her contract term to look for another position, if 
that were to become necessary. 
The Committee next met on September 28, 2010. The meeting notice, dated 
September 24, 2010, listed twelve topics for discussion, including "2. Old Business — 
Superintendent Evaluation" and "11. Executive Session: Level III Grievance & 
Negotiation Updates; Possible Litigation." The notice did not state that the 
Superintendent's contract would be a topic of discussion during the executive session. 
According to Chairman Colburn, the meeting notice was created by the Superintendent 
and her staff, with his input. Both he and Dr. Rizzi knew at the time it was created that a 
potential contract extension for the Superintendent would be a topic of discussion during 
the executive session. 
During the open session portion of the September 28, 2010 meeting, Chairman 
Colburn stated that he was compiling the Superintendent's evaluation, and would be 
meeting with Dr. Rizzi in the near future.5  At several points during the meeting, 
Committee members praised Dr. Rizzi's good work, such as when they heard updates on 
items including MCAS scores and the retention of a grant writer. At the end of the 
meeting, Chairman Colburn took a vote to enter executive session "for the purpose of 
5  The open session minutes from the September 28, 2010 do not reflect any conversation about the 
Superintendent's evaluation, though it was on the meeting agenda and the video recording shows it was 
briefly discussed by Chairman Colburn. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Level III grievance and negotiation updates, H possible litigation" and noted there would 
be "the opportunity to go back into open session if we need to for any voting." The Chair 
did not state that the Superintendent's contract would be a subject of the closed session. 
A roll call vote was then taken and the members voted unanimously to enter executive 
session. 
The executive session was convened at 8:41 p.m. and adjourned at 10:15 p.m. 
Although it lasted for more than an hour and a half, the minutes from the September 28, 
2011 executive session are extremely sparse and take up only one third of one page.6  It 
appears the Committee discussed at least one grievance, as well as contract negotiations 
with personnel, including the Superintendent. No litigation matters were discussed. 
Dr. Rizzi and Chairman Colburn both stated during interviews with this office 
that they knew they could not discuss the Superintendent's evaluation behind closed 
doors, and made this fact clear to others on the Committee at some point prior to the 
September 28, 2011 meeting. Under "Superintendent Review", the executive session 
minutes state only that "A discussion took place regarding Dr. Rizzi's potential contract 
length and salary increases. Possible tie with teacher salary increases will be discussed 
publicly at a later date." Discussion of Dr. Rizzi's job performance during the executive 
session appears to have been minimal. According to Chairman Colburn, the discussion 
was limited to whether a longer contract was good for the school system. Dr. Ural stated 
that several Committee members also commented that the Superintendent was doing a 
good job and it would be a shame to lose her. Dr. Ural further noted that Dr. Rizzi raised 
the matter of a possible pay increase during this meeting, and discussion then turned to 
tying her salary to the teachers' pay increase. After this idea was rejected, Dr. Rizzi then 
asked for an extension of her contract. Dr. Rizzi proposed specific terms for a contract 
extension and the Committee adopted them. The minutes reflect that Committee member 
Husseini made a motion to extend the Superintendent's contract by four years, beginning 
at the end of the current contract. Chairman Colburn did not recall the Committee asking 
Dr. Rizzi any questions, and stated that the vote on her contract extension "seemed totally 
procedural." Chairman Colburn also stated that the vote may have been somewhat 
premature given that they had not yet done an evaluation of the Superintendent, but since 
there was "no money attached" he felt there was no reason to delay the vote. Dr. Ural 
stated that he argued no action needed to be taken on Dr. Rizzi's contract at that time, but 
the rest of the Committee was amenable and the motion passed with three in favor and 
one opposed. 
On October 12, 2010, the Committee held another meeting. During the open 
session portion of this meeting, Chairman Colburn discussed the contract extension and 
stated his belief that the vote was appropriately taken in executive session. A 
representative from the Stoughton Teacher's Association then read a statement regarding 
a recent vote of no confidence in the Superintendent, and requested that the Committee 
reconsider its vote to extend Dr. Rizzi's contract. A discussion followed regarding the 
6  The minutes from the September 14, 2010 executive session, which also lasted for an hour and a half, are 
equally brief, comprising only one third of one page. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
possibility of re-voting in public, and a motion was made by Chairman Colburn to 
reconsider the vote on Dr. Rizzi's contract. Following additional statements by the 
public in support of and opposition to the extension, a vote was taken to reconsider the 
contract extension. The motion failed, and the vote was not reconsidered. 
On October 26, 2010, the Committee met again and the evaluation of Dr. Rizzi 
that Chairman Colburn compiled was presented. It is unclear from the meeting minutes 
whether the evaluation was discussed in any depth at that time. 
DISCUSSION 
The complaint alleges three violations of the Open Meeting Law stemming from the 
Committee's meeting on September 28, 2010. We address these issues in turn. 
1. Notice for the September 28, 2010 Meeting did not Contain Sufficient Specificity 
to Reasonably Advise the Public of Issues to be Discussed 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post a meeting notice 48 hours 
in advance of a meeting and include, a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 20, § 20(b). Public bodies are 
required to list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise 
the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03. We generally 
consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public 
could read the topic and understand what the nature of the public body's discussion will 
be. 
We find that the Committee's September 24, 2010 meeting notice was not 
sufficiently specific to advise the public of the issues the Committee planned to discuss 
during its executive session. The notice for the September 28, 2010 meeting described 
the executive session topic only as "Executive Session: Level III Grievance & 
Negotiation Updates; Possible Litigation." The Committee stated in its November 10, 
2010 response that it "acknowledges that both the agenda and motion could have been 
more artfully crafted but both clearly state that one of the purposes of going into 
executive session was for negotiations." Nevertheless, the meeting notice still fell short 
of the requirement that the Committee state "all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session" will be called. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(b)(3); See District Attorney for Northern Dist. v. School Committee of Wayland, 
455 Mass. 561, 567 (Mass. 2009) (" [a] precise statement of the reason for convening in 
executive session is necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only 
notification given to the public that the school committee would conduct business in 
private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or 
improper"). 
Because Chairman Colburn was aware at the time the meeting notice was created 
that Dr. Rizzi's contract would be a topic of discussion, the meeting notice should have 
specifically stated that the Committee would be meeting in executive session to negotiate 
5 
===PAGE 6===
a contract extension with Dr. Marguerite Rizzi. Providing the public with this additional 
information would not have been detrimental to the Committees negotiating position, 
particularly as Dr. Rizzi was aware of the session and planned to attend. It would, 
however, have put any interested member of the public on notice that there was a specific 
individual with whom the Committee was negotiating. 
2. Chairman Failed to Make a Sufficiently Detailed Statement of the Purpose for the 
September 28, 2010 Executive Session 
Prior to entering executive session, the chair of the public body must "state the 
purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(b)(3). For the same reasons that the meeting notice was deficient, Chairman 
Colburn's verbal statement of the reason for the executive session also did not meet the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law. Chairman Colburn announced that the 
Committee would enter executive session, "for the purpose of Level III grievance and 
negotiation updates, H possible litigation". This statement failed to provide enough 
information so that a member of the public would understand the nature of the executive 
session. The Chairman should have publicly stated that the executive session was being 
held for the purpose of conducting contract negotiations with Dr. Marguerite Rizzi. 
Doing so would have made clear that the Committee intended to meet to conduct contract 
negotiations with specific non-union personnel, rather than discuss general non-union 
negotiating strategies. 
As a final matter, the reason for an executive session as stated in the meeting 
notice and verbally by the chair should reflect items that the chair reasonably expects to 
discuss during that session. The statement should not, as appears to have been the case 
here, be a "catch-all" statement that is listed on every meeting agenda. Such boilerplate 
statements do not give the public sufficient notice of topics that will be discussed at that 
particular meeting. 
3. The Committee did not Meet in Executive Session on September 28, 2010 to 
Discuss the Professional Competence of the Superintendent, but did Take an 
Improper Vote on Contract Extension 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School  
Committee of Southbridge,  376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). However, the Open Meeting Law 
permits public bodies to enter executive session and conduct deliberations outside of the 
public view for ten specific purposes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). When meeting in 
executive session, a public body may only address subjects related to the narrow 
executive session purpose the public body cited when entering executive session. See 
District Attorney for the Northwestern Dist. v. Board of Selectmen of Sunderland,  11 
Mass. App. Ct. 663, 666 (1981) (executive session may not be used as a blanket reason to 
deliberate on matters other than those pertaining to the specific purpose for which 
executive session was called). One appropriate purpose for executive session is "No 
6 
===PAGE 7===
conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to 
conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) ("Purpose 2"). 
On September 28, 2010, the Committee entered executive session for the purpose 
of "Level III grievance and negotiation updates, [] possible litigation." Although minutes 
from the executive session are sparse, it appears the Committee discussed contract 
negotiations with personnel, including the Superintendent. Complainant alleges that the 
Committee also discussed the Superintendent's professional competence during the 
executive session, stating that it "belies comprehension as to how a decision to renew the 
Superintendent's contract can be undertaken without any discussion of her professional 
competence. Professional Competence is intrinsically and inseparably tied to the issue of 
contract extension." Complaint Memorandum, p. 6. 
While a vote to extend an employment contract does itself make a statement about 
the performance of the person whose contract is being extended, the fact of such a vote 
does not constitute concrete evidence that a discussion of that employee's performance 
preceded. Certainly, it makes pragmatic sense for a public body to evaluate an 
employee's performance before making decisions regarding the future of that person's 
employment and, here, an in depth discussion of the Superintendent's job performance in 
open session may have been helpful to members of the public wishing to know why the 
Committee felt it necessary to extend her contract at that time. On the evidence before 
us, however, it appears that no substantive discussion of the Superintendent's 
professional competence was held in executive session prior to the September 28, 2010 
vote on the Superintendent's contract. Some discussion of the Superintendent's 
performance did occur during the September 14, 2010 meeting, but the September 28, 
2010 meeting appears to have been limited to the negotiation of the contract extension. 
These types of discussions are appropriate under Purpose 2. See Wayland, 455 Mass. at 
568 ("While professional competence must first be discussed in an open session, how that 
evaluation will factor into a contract or salary negotiation strategy may be a suitable 
discussion for an executive session."). Therefore, had the meeting notice and the 
Chairman's statement at the time of the vote to enter executive session been tailored to 
the specific topics the Chairman anticipated discussing and included sufficient detail 
about the session's purpose, the Committee would have acted appropriately in holding 
this discussion in executive session. 
Although the Committee's negotiation of the Superintendent's contract was an 
appropriate subject for executive session, once the negotiation reached fruition the 
Committee had an obligation to return to open session in order to vote on whether or not 
to extend the contract. The law allows a public body to conduct contract negotiations 
with non-union personnel in executive session, but does not authorize a public body to 
approve a contract in executive session. Therefore, while a public body may reach an 
agreement on the terms of a contract in executive session, it must subsequently vote to 
approve or ratify such agreements in open session before they become effective. See 
OML 2011-28 (finding that school committee violated the Open Meeting Law by voting 
to approve superintendent's contract addendum in executive session). Chairman 
7 
===PAGE 8===
Colburn's statement at the time the September 28, 2010 executive session was convened 
that there would be "the opportunity to go back into open session if we need to for any 
voting" suggests that he was, at least to some degree, aware of this requirement. 
If a vote is improperly taken in executive session, a public body may cure the 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. To do so, the public body must take independent, 
deliberative action, and not merely engage in a ceremonial acceptance or perfunctory 
ratification of a secret decision. See Pearson v. Board of Selectmen of Longmeadow, 49 
Mass.App.Ct. 119, 125 (2000) (citing Tolar v. School Bd. of Liberty County, 398 So.2d 
427, 429 (Fla.1981)). Here, although an open session discussion of the merits of the 
contract extension did occur on October 12, 2011, this was insufficient to cure the earlier 
violation because the Committee did not re-vote on the contract extension during that 
meeting. Allowing public comment on an action already taken without publicly 
reconsidering the vote cannot cure a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
Because the vote on Dr. Rizzi's contract extension was not taken in public, and 
because the meeting notice did not provide the public with sufficient detail to know that 
such a vote was even a possibility during this meeting, the Committee acted 
inappropriately. 
As a final matter, although not raised by the complainant, we note that the 
Committee's meeting minutes do not satisfy the requirement that minutes include "a list 
of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The minutes 
from the September 28, 2010 meeting did not include a list of any documents or exhibits 
used by the Committee, though the open session video recording shows the Committee 
discussed specific documents, such as a grant sheet which was handed out during the 
meeting. Public bodies are required to create and maintain accurate minutes of all 
meetings, including executive sessions. At minimum, meeting minutes must set forth "the 
date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on 
each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions 
made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a). A transcript of the discussion is not required, but minutes should be 
sufficiently detailed to allow a person who was not in attendance to determine the essence 
of the discussion and what documents were used. 
CONCLUSION 
The Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to provide sufficient 
detail about the purpose for its executive session, both in its meeting notice and when it 
convened in executive session during the September 28, 2010 meeting. The Committee 
further violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to ratify in open session a contract 
extension agreed to between the Committee and the Superintendent during executive 
session. 
We accordingly order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law and caution the Committee that a determination by our office of similar violations in 
8 
===PAGE 9===
the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. We 
also order the Committee to attend a training on the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25, within 90 days of receipt of this letter, to be conducted by an attorney or 
organization familiar with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law and approved by 
this office. Finally, we order the Committee to amend its September 28, 2010 meeting 
minutes to include "a list of documents and other exhibits used" at the Committee's 
September 28, 2010 meeting. 
The Committee did not have the benefit of our decision in OML 2011-287  at the 
time of this meeting, therefore we decline to take the further remedial action requested by 
the complainant, namely nullifying the action taken by the Committee in approving Dr. 
Rizzi's contract. While we do not order nullification, in the interest of transparency, we 
strongly recommend that the Committee reconsider the vote on the contract extension 
during an open session meeting. In addition, we caution the Committee that future 
similar violations may result in nullification of any action taken. 
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this 
letter, or believe any of the facts in this letter are inaccurate, please do not hesitate to 
contact our office. 
Sincerely, 
Amy L. Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Maria Capobianco 
Ashley Walter, Esq., Shaevel & Krems, LLP 
7 OM=L 2011-28 found that a school committee violated the Open Meeting Law by, amongst other things, 
agreeing to a contract addendum during an executive session and failing to subsequently ratify that 
agreement in open session. 
9 