===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACI-IUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
February 21, 2012 
OML 2012 — 13 
Anthony Savastano, Esq. 
Dartmouth Fire District Prudential Committee 
404 County St. 
New Bedford, MA 02740 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Savastano: 
This office received two complaints from Fire Chief John Alcaidinho (the 
"Complainant"), dated April 14, 2011 and May 4, 2011, alleging that the Dartmouth Fire District 
Prudential Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18- 
25. Specifically, the first complaint alleges that the Committee failed to provide the 
Complainant with "open session minutes, executive session minutes, and all tapes for the months 
of September through December 2008," and failed to provide the same items for "the months of 
May 2010 through January 12, 2011." The second complaint alleges that on February 9, 2011, 
the Committee held a meeting to discuss the renewal of the Complainant's contract, knowing 
that the Complainant would not be able to attend. The complaint also alleges that the Committee 
did not allow members of the public to speak on the Complainant's behalf during the meeting. 
The complaints were filed with the Committee on January 27, 2011 and February 12, 2011. The 
Committee responded to the complaints on March 11, 2011. 
We understand that since the complaint was filed, the Committee has produced a series of 
minutes to Chief Alcaidinho, including minutes for the Committee's meetings on September 3, 
2008, September 10, 2008, July 14, 2010, and October 13, 2010. The Committee acknowledged 
in a May 31, 2011 letter to this office that Chief Alcaidinho has not been provided with the 
executive session minutes for September 3, 2008 and September 10, 2008. We understand these 
to be the only requested minutes still outstanding. The Committee explained that the minutes for 
those executive sessions do not exist, and that the tapes for those sessions have since been 
destroyed. We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to take and 
retain minutes of these meetings. Whether it was appropriate for the Committee to destroy tape 
recordings of a meeting is not a matter within our jurisdiction to resolve. The Complainant may, 
if he has not done so already, appeal the decision to destroy the tapes to the Supervisor of Public 
1 
===PAGE 2===
Records at the Secretary of State's Office. 
With regard to the second complaint, we understand that the Committee met in open 
session on February 9, 2011. There is no requirement in the Open Meeting Law that a public 
body schedule a meeting so that a subject of the public body's deliberation can attend. 
Therefore, the Committee did not violate the law by scheduling a meeting during which it 
considered the Complainant's performance evaluation, even though the Complainant was unable 
to attend. Additionally, there is no right by members of the public to address the public body 
during a meeting. The Open Meeting Law states that "[n]o person shall address a meeting of a 
public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be 
silent. No person shall disrupt the proceedings of a meeting of a public body." G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(f). The minutes of the Committee's February 9, 2011 meeting state that an individual tried to 
speak but was not recognized by the chair Because the chair was within his power to refuse to 
recognize the individual during the meeting, the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
While the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law, we encourage the 
Committee and other public bodies to schedule performance evaluations at times when the 
subject of those evaluations can attend. Additionally, we encourage public bodies to provide 
opportunities for public comment during open meetings. Such accommodations are in the best 
interest of transparency and good government. 
Although not raised directly in the complaints, our review of the executive session 
minutes of the Committee's July 14, 2010 and October 13, 2010 meetings, as well as the notices 
for the Committee's September 22, 2010, October 13, 2010, November 10, 2010 and January 26, 
2011 meetings, revealed that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing 
matters in executive session that should have been discussed in open session. Specifically, the 
Committee considered the evaluation of the Complainant in executive session on numerous 
occasions. 
A public body may enter executive, or closed, session for one of ten enumerated 
purposes, provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of members of 
the body have voted to go into executive session, and that the vote of each member is recorded 
by roll call and entered into the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)—(b). Before entering the 
executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects 
that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was 
called, and the chair must publicly announce whether the open session will reconvene at the 
conclusion of the executive session. Id. Among the ten enumerated purposes for executive 
session is Purpose 1, which in pertinent part allows a public body to enter executive session to 
"discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional 
competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or 
charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(1) (emphasis added). 
The notices for the Committee's 2010 meetings include topics such as "Executive 
Session —Fire Chief Evaluation." Unless the Committee is meeting under Purpose 1 to discuss 
discipline or dismissal, or reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, it is not 
2 
===PAGE 3===
appropriate to meet in executive session to discuss the Fire Chief's job performance. During 
several executive sessions, the Board discussed the Fire Chief s performance, including on 
October 13, 2010 and July 14, 2010. These discussions should have occurred in open session. 
We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and remind the 
Comtnittee of its obligation to create and maintain accurate minutes of every meeting. We 
further remind the Committee that it may not conduct evaluations of the professional competence 
of an employee in executive session. Similar violations in the future may be considered 
intentional violations of the Open Meeting Law. 
We appreciate the patience of the Complainant and cooperation of the Committee during 
this investigation. We now consider this matter closed. Please contact me if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Goverment 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
cc: Fire Chief John Alcaidinho 
3 