===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
December 10, 2012 
OML 2012 —113 
Gregg Corbo, Esq. 
Kopelman & Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street, 12th  Floor 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received a complaint from Jeanne Golrick dated June 28, 2012, alleging 
that the Montague Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about May 
23, 2012, and you responded on behalf of the Board to the original complaint by letter 
dated June 14, 2012.1  In her complaint, Ms. Golrick alleges that the Board's notice for the 
May 22, 2012 meeting was not sufficiently detailed because it failed to identify the two 
individuals under the Board's consideration for appointment to the Cable Advisory 
Committee and the Montague Economic Development and Industrial Corporation (EDIC), 
respectively, and the Board failed "to indicate the nature of the litigation or the name of the 
party for which they entered executive session." Ms. Golrick requests that that this Office 
order the Board to attend an educational session on the Open Meeting Law, properly post 
and conduct their meetings in accordance with the Law, and declare void any decisions 
rendered during the executive session. 
After reviewing the complaint and the Committee's response, we have decided to 
resolve this complaint by informal action,  in accordance with 940 CMR 29.017(2)(a). 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law, but took appropriate remedial 
action in response to the complaint. 
Upon the filing of this complaint, the Board recognized the deficiencies in its 
meeting notice and resolved to remedy the violation at their next meeting, which was 
scheduled for May 30, 2012. The May 30, 2012 meeting notice was posted with the Town 
1  For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
CJ 
===PAGE 2===
Clerk on May 24, 2012 and listed the names of the individuals for whom the Board 
planned to ratify appointments as well as the names of the litigation cases for which the 
executive session was convened on May 22, 2012. During its May 30, 2012 meeting, the 
Board voted unanimously to ratify the appointments of Lisa Enzer and Roy Rosenblatt, 
respectively, as well as to amend the Board's vote to convene in executive session on May 
22, 2012 "to reflect the fact that the purpose was to discuss litigation strategy under 
M.G.L. c. 30A, section 21(a)(3)....with respect to eviction actions in cases of Town v. 
Conley and Town v. Golrick." 
As the Board acknowledged, the notice for the May 22, 2012 meeting fell short of 
the notice requirements.2  First, to the extent that the Board is aware of the identity of the 
individuals for whom they are considering appointments during the meeting, it should take 
the additional step of listing their names in the meeting notice. See OML 2011- 11. This 
level of detail is intended to provide members of the public with sufficient information to 
understand what business is being transacted by the Board and, where members of the 
public have an interest, to attend the relevant deliberations. Id. Second, the meeting notice 
should have specifically stated the names of all pending litigation matters that the Board 
anticipated discussing during the executive session, if doing so would not have 
compromised the purposes for the executive session. See  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); OML 
2012-55; see also District Attorney for Northern Dist. v. School Committee of Wayland,  455 
Mass. 561, 567 (Mass. 2009) (" [a] precise statement of the reason for convening in 
executive session is necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only 
notification given to the public that the school committee would conduct business in 
private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or 
improper"). 
We are satisfied that the Board promptly remedied the violation. Accordingly, we 
order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and 
caution the Board that future similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to 
violate the law. We decline to take the additional step requested by the complainant to 
render void any decisions made during the executive session and we note that during the 
May 30, 2012 meeting, the Board announced that no votes were taken during said meeting. 
Additionally, we note that Attorney Corbo has scheduled an upcoming presentation on the 
Open Meeting Law for the Town of Montague on January 17, 2013. 
2  The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting and 
include, a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03. We generally 
consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic 
and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
With the issuance of this determination, we now consider this matter closed. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office 
or the Board. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Jeanne Golrick 
Montague Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3 