===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 6, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 129 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Jessica Wielgus, Esq. 
Commission Counsel 
Cape Cod Commission 
3225 Main Street 
Barnstable, MA 02630 
jwielgus@capecodcommission.org 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Wielgus: 
 
This office received two complaints from Ronald Beaty on September 2, 2025,
1 alleging 
that the Cape Cod Commission (the “Commission”) and its Executive Committee (the 
“Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were 
originally filed with the Commission on or about August 15 and 18, and you responded to both 
complaints, on behalf of the Commission, by letter on September 2. The first complaint concerns 
an August 14 meeting of the Commission and the second complaint concerns an August 14 
meeting of the Committee.  
 
The first complaint alleges that the Commission 1) failed “to confirm physical posting of 
the meeting notice”; 2) included a vague topic on the meeting notice; 3) failed “to ensure real-
time access to meeting materials for remote participants”; and 4) potentially failed to properly 
execute a hybrid meeting. The second complaint alleges that the Committee 1) failed “to confirm 
physical posting or filing with county official”; 2) included a vague topic on the meeting notice; 
3) failed to make clear the “availability of additional meeting materials”; and 4) failed to identify 
a potential executive session. 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties as we reviewed these matters. Following our 
review, we find that the Commission and the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the 
response to the complaints, and the request for further review. We also reviewed the notices for 
the Commission’s and Committee’s August 14 meetings as well as draft minutes of the 
Committee’s August 14 meeting, and a video recording of the Commission’s August 14 
meeting.
2 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Commission and Committee properly posted notice for their August 14 
meetings. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is lawfully convened. See G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. For a “regional or district public body, notice shall be filed and posted in 
each city or town within the region or district in the manner prescribed for local public bodies.” 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c). However, as an alternative, a regional or district public body may adopt its 
website as its official notice posting location. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c); 940 CMR 29.03(3)(b).  
 
The Commission and the Committee are regional public bodies, serving the 15 towns of 
Barnstable County. Since 2017, the Commission’s official notice posting location has been its 
website, http://www.capecodcommission.org. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c); 940 CMR 29.03(3)(b).
3 
The complaints acknowledge that the notices of the Commission’s and Committee’s August 14 
meetings were posted to the official notice posting location but allege that the notices failed to 
confirm that they were also physically posted and filed with county officials. Where the notices 
at issue were properly posted to the Commission and Committee’s official notice posting 
location, we find no violation. Additionally, although notices must be kept by the chair of the 
regional body or a designee, 940 CMR 29.03(3)(b), the notice itself is not required to confirm 
that this has been done.4   
 
II. We find no violation with respect to the allegations that meeting materials were 
not made available to the public. 
 
The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body affirmatively provide copies 
of documents intended for use at a meeting to the public before or during the meeting, or that 
 
2 A video recording of the Commission’s August 14 meeting was accessed at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C99hJWUoiU4.  
3 The Attorney General maintains publicly available spreadsheets listing official notice posting locations. The 
spreadsheets are available on the Attorney General’s website at https://www.mass.gov/service-details/official-
notice-posting-locations-for-public-bodies.  
4 To the extent the complaints allege that the Commission and Committee violated the Cape Cod Commission Act, 
the Division’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law only. Therefore, we decline to review 
whether the Commission or Committee may have violated some other law. See OML Declination 1-31-2022 
(Weymouth School Committee); OML Declination 1-13-2017 (Marblehead Old and Historic Districts Commission). 
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
documents be posted to a website. See OML 2021-32; OML 2020-167, n.7; OML 2018-140; 
OML 2015-199. Instead, documents used by a public body during an open session meeting must 
be listed in the meeting minutes and provided in response to a public records request. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 22(a)&(e). Nonetheless, we encourage public bodies, whenever feasible, to provide 
meeting attendees with copies of all documents they intend to discuss, particularly where 
viewing such documents would help the public follow the body’s deliberations.  
 
The complaints allege that the Commission and Committee failed to affirmatively 
provide to the public materials intended for use at the August 14 meetings or to make clear 
whether certain materials would be made available to the public. Because the Commission and 
Committee were not required, under the Open Meeting Law, to provide copies of documents to 
the public before or during the August 14 meetings, we find no violation. However, we 
commend the Commission and the Committee where we understand that the bodies have a 
practice of sharing relevant documents with the public before and during meetings. 
 
III. We find no violation with respect to the allegations of “potential” violations. 
 
The first complaint alleges the potential for problems with the remote access to the 
Commission’s August 14 meeting. Specifically, the complaint asserts that,  
 
The a
genda provides access instructions (Zoom link, phone ID, “ Raise Hand”/ *9 
procedures) but does not confirm that audio/video quality and participation 
mechanisms ensure “ adequate, alternative ” access for remote participants, as 
required for hybrid meetings under Chapter 2 of the Acts of 2025. Past technical 
issues in Commission meetings suggest a risk of non
-comp
liance.    
 
The c
omplaint does not allege that the complainant or any other individual was in fact unable to 
access the Commission’s August 14 meeting, instead asserting that due to past technical 
problems there was a risk that technical issues would occur again and suggesting that the 
meeting notice should have confirmed the quality of the remote access. Because there is no 
assertion that the complainant or any other individual was in fact unable to access the August 14 
meeting, we find no violation.  
 
 The second complaint alleges that the notice of the Committee’s August 14 meeting 
failed to “identify [a] potential executive session for Executive Director review,” asserting that,  
 
The agenda item “Executive Director Review: Kristy Senatori will present, and 
Committee members will discuss, an overview and evaluation of activities during 
the past year and establish goals for the year ahead” may involve personnel matters 
(e.g., performance evaluation), which typically require an executive session under 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The agenda does not indicate a potential executive session 
or its purpose, violating the OML’s requirement to notify the public of anticipated 
executive sessions. (Italics in original.) 
 
Again, the complaint does not allege that the Committee in fact convened in executive session on 
August 14, and indeed it is our understanding that the Committee did not convene in executive 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
session that day. The complainant asserts that discussions of professional competence should 
occur in executive sessions. However, G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) provides that a public body may 
convene in executive session “to discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental 
health, rather than professional competence, of an individual . . . .” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) 
(emphasis added). The Open Meeting Law specifically excludes discussions of professional 
competence under Purpose 1 and the Division has consistently explained that professional 
competence is generally not appropriate for discussion in executive session. See, e.g., OML 
2024-224, n.4; OML 2011-5. Where the complaint does not allege that the Committee in fact 
convened in executive session without first notifying the public, we find no violation.  
 
IV. We find that the Commission and the Committee posted sufficient notices for 
their August 14 meetings.  
 
The complaints allege that for each meeting, the notice topics related to the Executive 
Director’s report were insufficiently specific. The Open Meeting Law requires that, “[e]xcept in 
an emergency, . . . a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to the 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Meeting 
notices must include, among other things, a list of the topics that the chair, and any other 
individual authorized to create the notice, reasonably anticipates 48 hours in advance (excluding 
weekends and legal holidays) will be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 
2022-206; OML 2020-152. The topics for discussion must be listed on the notice with “sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body’s discussion. See OML 2019-70. When reviewing a meeting notice for 
sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review the notice standing 
alone. See OML 2015-21; OML 2014-155. Rather, we review what was discussed at the meeting 
to determine if the notice was sufficiently detailed. See OML 2015-101.  
 
The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on August 14, 2025, at 2:00 p.m., 
and the Commission posted notice for a meeting to be held on August 14, 2025, at 3:00 p.m. 
Both notices included the topic “Executive Director’s Report: Kristy Senatori will report on any 
recent staff activities.” The Committee held its meeting as scheduled; however, the Executive 
Director did not give a report during the Committee’s meeting. The Commission held its meeting 
as scheduled and the Executive Director gave an approximately four-minute report providing 
brief updates on the various projects and work she and her staff were undertaking. When the 
Executive Director ended her report, the Commission chair thanked the Executive Director and 
moved immediately to the next notice topic. No member of the Commission asked any questions 
or discussed the Executive Director’s report in any way.   
 
In the past, when a meeting notice included as a topic a report or presentation by 
somebody who is not a member of the public body, such as “Superintendent’s Report” or 
“Administrator’s Report,” we have declined to find a violation of the Open Meeting Law for lack 
of specificity where the chair did not anticipate the specific nature of the deliberations. 
Nonetheless, we encourage chairs, as a best practice, to solicit from the presenter details 
regarding the precise matters to be discussed and to include such details on the meeting notice. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
See OML 2018-33; OML 2012-19. Additionally, where a public body does not actually engage 
in any deliberation on a particular topic, it cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to 
the sufficiency of the notice topic. See OML 2021-43 (finding no violation with respect to the 
sufficiency of the notice where the chair read the town administrator’s memo aloud and “[n]o 
Board member, including the Chair, shared any comments or asked any questions about the 
memo . . . ”); OML 2019-94 (finding no violation when a meeting notice included the topic 
“Discussion of Legal Settlements” without identifying any particular legal matters, but the 
committee merely heard a report from the superintendent and did not engage in any discussion); 
but cf. OML 2020-152 (finding a violation where the superintendent shared responsibility for 
creating the meeting notice and during the meeting the committee discussed a topic the 
superintendent had anticipated he would raise but which he did not anticipate the committee 
would discuss).  
 
Because the Committee did not reach the topic of the Executive Director’s report and 
because the Commission did not discuss any aspect of the Executive Director’s report in any 
way, we find no violation with respect to the notice topic concerning the Executive Director’s 
report. See OML 2021-43; OML 2019-94. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission and the Committee did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged. We now consider the complaints addressed 
by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints 
that may be pending with the Commission, the Committee, or our office. Please feel free to 
contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,      
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Cape Cod Commission and its Executive Committee c/o Kristy Senatori, Executive 
Director (via email: ksenatori@capecodcommission.org)  
Ronald Beaty (via email:  
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
