===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 13, 2026 
  
OML 2026 – 43  
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
  
Alex Castro, Esq. 
alex@mtclawyers.com 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints  
 
Dear Attorney Castro:  
 
This office received a complaint from Kendra Petrone on August 5, 2025, alleging that 
the Middleton Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.
1  Ms. Petrone originally filed the complaint with the Board on June 9.  You responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated June 27.  The complaint alleges that the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law when a quorum deliberated outside a meeting to arrange for two Board 
members to speak at a public forum, the “Candidates’ Night,” held by the League of Women 
Voters of the North Shore (the “League”) on May 8.   
 
We appreciate the parties’ patience as we reviewed this matter.  Following our review, 
we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged in the 
complaint.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed 
emails between the Board and the League.  We viewed a recording of the Candidates’ Night 
provided by the complainant.  We interviewed Board Member Kosta Prentakis on December 5.  
Finally, we communicated with you, with League staff, and with the complainant via email. 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  The League held a Candidates’ Night in the Town of 
Middleton on May 8.  The Candidates’ Night took place in advance of Town elections held on 
May 20 and was an opportunity for candidates for local office to make short statements and to 
answer questions.  Additionally, Middleton’s Annual Town Meeting was scheduled for May 13.  
 
1 Hereinafter, all dates refer to the year 2025 unless otherwise indicated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Among the warrant articles to be voted on at Town Meeting was a Proposition 2 ½ override to 
fund public safety expenses (the “Public Safety Override”).2   
 
The Board is a five-member body.  Therefore, three members constitute a quorum.  On 
May 5, Board Member Kosta Prentakis emailed League Member Sarah “Sally” George to ask 
whether a Board member would be allowed to speak at the Candidates’ Night in favor of the 
Public Safety Override.  Ms. George responded that “[a] member of the Select Board will be given 
5 minutes to present an overview, rather than a statement pro or con, of the questions.”  Member 
Prentakis informed then-Chair Rick Kassiotis that a member could speak at the Candidates’ Night.  
Board Member Debra Carbone maintains that she independently contacted the League to obtain 
permission to speak at the Candidates’ Night and did not communicate with any other member of the 
Board about speaking at the Candidates’ Night.  Member Carbone cannot recall the name of the 
League member who gave her permission to speak at the Candidates’ Night.  League Member Sally 
George has stated that Member Prentakis was the only Board member who contacted her about 
speaking on the Public Safety Override at the Candidates’ Night.  League President Karen Sheridan 
noted in response to our email inquiry that the Candidates’ Night “was almost a year ago” and that she 
had no recollection of any Board member contacting her asking to give an overview of the Public 
Safety Override at the Candidates’ Night. 
 
The Candidates’ Night took place as scheduled on May 8.  It was moderated by League 
President Sheridan.  The complainant, Kendra Petrone, participated in Candidates’ Night as a 
candidate for a contested seat on the Board.  It is our understanding that at some point during the 
evening, Member Prentakis spoke with League President Sheridan about the presentation to be made 
about the Public Safety Override.   
 
At the conclusion of the candidates’ panels, League President Sheridan dismissed the 
candidates.  She announced that there would be a quick overview of the three ballot questions.  She 
made this announcement as the complainant and others were filing out of the room and there was 
conversational background noise.  Members Carbone and Kassiotis were standing in the back of the 
room, talking to one another.  The moderator asked who would “speak to the Fire.”3  As she asked 
this question, Member Prentakis, who was seated in front of where Members Carbone and Kassiotis 
were standing, turned around in the direction of his two fellow Board members.  The moderator then 
asked “Deb Carbone, are you going to speak to the police?”4  Member Prentakis pointed to Member 
Carbone and waved her to the front of the room, as Chair Kassiotis also walked to the front of the 
room.  When Member Carbone reached the moderator’s table, she remarked “I knew I was hanging 
around for a reason.”  She then spoke from prepared notes about the Public Safety Override from the 
perspective of the Fire Department.  She did not state whether she was speaking as a member of the 
Board.  After speaking for approximately five minutes, she stated “Rick’s going to speak to the Police 
side.”  For the next five minutes, Chair Kassiotis spoke from prepared notes about staffing at the 
 
2 “A state law enacted in 1980, Proposition 2½ regulates local property tax administration and limits the amount of 
revenue a city or town may raise from local property taxes each year to fund municipal operations.”  
https://www.mass.gov/info-details/proposition-2-12-and-tax-rate-process.  
3 By this, League President Sheridan presumably was asking who would present the Fire Department’s perspective 
on the Public Safety Override. 
4 As previously noted, neither League representative with whom we spoke recalled being contacted by Member 
Carbone.  The complainant alleges that at the Candidates’ Night, Member Prentakis spoke further with League 
President Sheridan about the presentations regarding the Public Safety Override. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Police Department and the Public Safety Override.  He also did not identify himself as a member of 
the Board. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The complaint was timely filed. 
 
As an initial matter, we address the Board’s assertion that the complaint was not timely 
filed.  Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public 
body within 30 days of the alleged violation.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b).  If the alleged violation could 
not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed within 
30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered.  940 CMR 29.05(3).  The 
complainant alleges that a quorum of the Board deliberated outside a meeting prior to the 
Candidates’ Night, which was held on May 8.  At the earliest, communication between the Board 
members was reasonably discoverable at the Candidates’ Night on May 8.  The 30th day 
following May 8 was Saturday, June 7.  The complaint is dated June 8 and was received by, i.e. 
filed with, the Board on the next business day, Monday, June 9.   
 
Pursuant to statute, “when the day or the last day for the performance of an act . . . 
authorized or required by statute or by contract, falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, the act may . . 
. be performed on the next succeeding business day.”  G.L. c. 4, § 9.  Additionally, “the 
provisions of section nine of chapter four shall apply in the case of such closing of any such 
office on any Saturday to the same extent as if Saturday were a legal holiday.”  G.L. c. 41, § 
110A.  When, for example, the deadline to respond to a request for meeting minutes made under 
the Open Meeting Law falls on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, it is extended to the following 
business day.  See OML 2023-62; OML 2018-126; OML 2018-121; 2013-131.5  We have stated 
that when the 30th day following an alleged violation falls on a Sunday, the deadline to file an 
Open Meeting Law complaint is the next business day.  See OML Declination 5-10-24 (Peabody 
Municipal Lighting Commission).  This is consistent with the application of these statutes to 
statutes of limitations and presentment deadlines in other contexts.  See, e.g., Mahoney v. 
Dematteo-Flatiron LLP, 66 Mass. App. Ct. 903, 904 (2006) (holding that, by operation of the 
statutes, when the last day to commence a tort action falls on a Saturday, the action may be 
commenced on the next succeeding business day); Miller v. Boston, 25 Mass. App. Ct. 997, 997 
(1988) (holding that, by operation of the statutes, plaintiff provided timely notice to the city of 
claims of personal injury and property damage where the 30-day notice period prescribed by 
G.L. c. 84, § 18 expired on a Saturday and notice was received by the city on the following 
Monday).  Because the complaint was filed with the Board on Monday, June 9, it was timely.   
 
II. We find no violation with respect to the allegation that the Board deliberated outside 
of a posted meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when convened in executive session, “all 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A “meeting” is 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction . . . .”  Id.  For 
the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a 
public body.  Id.  See also OML 2022-45.  Additionally, a public body may not engage in serial 
communication whereby a quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of 
a meeting on a particular subject matter within the public body’s jurisdiction.  See OML 2026-
21; 2024-189; OML 2015-3; OML 2011-27; McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) 
(holding that private serial communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may 
not be used to circumvent the intent of the law). 
 
Here, the uncontested evidence before us confirms that two of the five Board members, 
Member Prentakis and Chair Kassiotis, communicated outside a public meeting about making a 
presentation on the Public Safety Override at the Candidates’ Night, and that Chair Kassiotis gave a 
prepared presentation on the Public Safety Override at the event.  A third member, Deb Carbone, also 
gave a prepared and complementary presentation at the Candidates’ Night regarding the Public Safety 
Override.  Member Carbone, however, denies that she spoke to her fellow Board members about 
doing so; she claims that she made arrangements directly with the League to speak about the Public 
Safety Override.  For their part, staff at the League have either denied or do not recall any 
communication with Member Carbone about her speaking at the Candidates’ Night.   
 
In general, we credit a public body’s account of the facts, unless there is sufficient 
evidence to the contrary.  See OML 2023-121; OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141.  Much of the 
information we reviewed during our investigation of this complaint suggests that Member 
Carbone spoke about the Public Safety Override presentation with either Member Prentakis or 
Chair Kassiotis prior to the Candidates’ Night.  In the video recording of the Candidates’ Night, 
Member Prentakis is seen waving Member Carbone to the front of the room when the moderator 
introduces the topic of the overview of the ballot questions.  Additionally, the prepared presentations 
given by Members Carbone and Kassiotis complemented each other.  Finally, when Member Carbone 
finished her presentation on the Fire Department, she announced that Chair Kassiotis would present 
on the Police Department.  These facts suggest some coordination between the three members, at least 
in so far as determining who would present on the Public Safety Override and who would discuss 
which issues.  See OML 2013-107 (finding a violation where members created a video in light of the 
“scripted nature of the presentations” and a level of organization that suggested that members 
coordinated with each other).  However, based upon our investigation, there is insufficient evidence to 
support a formal finding that the three members communicated, either directly or in a serial fashion, 
outside of a posted meeting regarding matters within the Board’s jurisdiction.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; 
OML 2023-184 (finding insufficient evidence to formally conclude that deliberation occurred outside 
meeting in light of contradictory accounts); OML 2022-172 (same); OML 2018-50 (same).  
Therefore, we do not find a violation on the part of the Board.6 
 
6 We note that during an open meeting held on April 22, weeks prior to the Candidates’ Night, the Board voted in 
favor of the “Public Safety Override” Article.  To the extent that members of the Board simply memorialized prior 
deliberations through communications outside a meeting, such communications might not constitute deliberation.  
See OML 2020-48 (chair’s distribution of a draft zoning decision that conveyed opinions and concerns that had been 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
III. We decline to review allegations of collusion or campaign law violations. 
 
The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law.  The complainant alleges that the Board violated campaign laws and colluded to interfere 
with election laws by having two Board members speak at the Candidates’ Night.  These 
allegations fall outside the Open Meeting Law.  We offer no opinion on whether any actions 
taken by the Board could be a violation of any law or regulation pertaining to election laws or 
campaign laws.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by deliberating outside a public meeting.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this 
determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may 
be pending with our office or the Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-
2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc:  Kendra Petrone (via email:  ) 
Brian M. Cresta, Chair, Middleton Select Board (via email: 
brian.cresta@middletonma.gov) 
 Ilene Twiss, Middleton Town Clerk (via email: Ilene.Twiss@middletonma.gov) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.   
 
expressed by board members during an open meeting did not constitute deliberation); OML 2019-78 (the 
distribution of minutes ahead of a public meeting is permissible as long as the minutes simply memorialize the 
deliberation that took place at a preceding meeting).  We also note that the Open Meeting Law does not restrict an 
individual's right to make comments to the general public.  See OML 2023-110; OML 2017-111.  Comments 
directed to the broader public do not violate the Open Meeting Law even where they reach a quorum of public body 
members.  See OML 2023-151; OML 2023-110.   
 
