===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
August 6, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 121 
 
VIA EMAIL  
 
Lisa Janice Cohen 
Clerk, Hardwick Master Plan Steering Committee 
lisa@ljcohen.net 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Lisa Janice Cohen: 
This office received a complaint from Jeffery Smith on June 23, 2025, alleging that the 
Hardwick Master Plan Steering Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on April 13, and 
you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated April 26.  The complaint alleges that 
the notice for the Committee’s April 10 meeting was insufficiently specific. 
We resolve this complaint by informal action, in a ccordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, the request 
for further review, and the notice and minutes of the Committee meeting held on April 10.
2  The 
Committee acknowledges, and we find, that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently specific notice for its April 10 meeting.  
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting and that 
every notice include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the 
chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The list of 
topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic sufficiently 
specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2025. 
2 “Informal Action. The Attorney General may resolve the investigation with a letter or other appropriate form of 
written communication that explains the violation and clarifies the subject's obligations under M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 
through 25, providing the subject with a reasonable period of time to comply with any outstanding obligations.”  940 
CMR 29.07(2)(a). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2018-7; OML 2015-35.3  When 
reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not 
review a meeting notice standing alone.  See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155.  Rather, we 
review what was actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently 
detailed to make the public aware of the discussion topics. 
 
Here, the notice of the Committee’s April 10 meeting included only three topics – 
Approval of prior minutes, Old Business, and New Business.  During the meeting, the 
Committee reviewed and approved the minutes of its prior meeting held on March 27, discussed 
the overall process of the Master Plan update under Old Business, and discussed holding a 
community engagement event under New Business.  Generic notices that include boilerplate 
topics such as “Old Business” and “New Business,” on their own, are vague and do not offer the 
public an understanding of the anticipated topics to be discussed.  See OML 2017-14; OML 
2024-27.  Rather, such topics should be used as a heading below which more specific topics are 
listed.  See OML 2015-74.  We commend the Committee for committing to including the 
additional specificity on meeting notices going forward.  
 
For the
 reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by posting a notice with insufficient specificity for the April 10 meeting.  We order the 
Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that 
future similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law.  
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilocyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
Assisted by Dariana Noyola, Legal Intern  
 
 
cc: Jeffery Smith (via email: ) 
Justine Caggiano, Town Administrator (via email: admin@townofhardwick.com) 
Hardwick Town Clerk (via email: clerk@townofhardwick.com) 
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
 
 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 