===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
May 2, 2019 
OML 2019-45
Shannon Resnick, Esq.
Clark, Balboni & Gildea 
1037 Pleasant Street 
Bridgewater, MA 02324
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Resnick:
This office received a complaint from Margaret Sheehan on October 24, 2018, 
alleging that the Plymouth County Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Commission on or about August 20, 2018, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of 
the Commission, in a letter dated September 4, 2018. In her complaint, Ms. Sheehan alleges 
that the Commission has improperly withheld certain executive session minutes from public 
disclosure and failed to conduct a periodic review of its executive session minutes at 
reasonable intervals.1 2
1 Ms. Sheehan also alleges that, based on her review of certain meeting minutes from 2016, 2017 and early 2018, 
the Commission failed to comply with some of the procedural requirements for convening an executive session 
under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) (“Purpose 6”). Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be 
filed with the public body within 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged violation 
could not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed within 30 days of 
the date it should reasonably have been discovered. 940 CMR 29.05(3). Because the procedural steps for 
convening in executive session, or the failure of a public body to undertake such steps, occurs in open session, 
the alleged violation could reasonably have been discovered at the time of the meeting. See OML Declination 2- 
27-15 (Framingham Board of Selectmen). Accordingly, we decline to review these allegations.
2 Additionally, Ms. Sheehan alleges that from 2015 through the present, the open and executive session minutes 
of Commission meetings failed to include a list of documents and exhibits used during the meeting. Our office 
will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations. See OML 2013-180; OML 
Declination 8-25-15 (Middlefield Board of Selectmen). Furthermore, allegations regarding meeting minutes that 
were approved more than 30 days before this complaint was filed would be untimely. Therefore, we decline to 
review this allegation. We do, however, remind the Commission that the Open Meeting Law requires meeting 
minutes to include “a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). We note 
that following receipt of this complaint, the Commission appears to have begun including in its meeting minutes 
a list of documents and other exhibits used at each meeting. We acknowledge the role of the complainant in 
bringing this issue to the Commission’s attention and commend the Commission for taking corrective action in 
response to the complaint.
o

===PAGE 2===
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Commission’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. 
We also reviewed a letter from you, dated April 9, 2019, and communicated with you by 
telephone and email on February 6 and April 22, 2019.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. On August 9, 2018, the complainant submitted a request 
by email to the Plymouth County Administrator for, among other things, the minutes from all 
executive sessions held in 2016, 2017 and 2018. On August 14, 2018, the Administrator 
responded to the request, notifying the complainant that the Commission was working on 
releasing those executive session minutes from the requested timeframe that were suitable for 
release. On September 6, 2018, the Commission voted to release certain executive session 
minutes, which were then provided to the complainant by email on September 10, 2018. The 
Commission continued to withhold executive session minutes from the requested time period 
that were the subject of pending litigation matters.
The Administrator conducts a monthly review of the Commission’s executive session 
minutes that remain withheld from public disclosure, which he brings to the Commission’s 
attention for its approval during a meeting.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, 
the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Executive session 
minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as publication may defeat the 
lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). When the 
purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents or 
exhibits used at the session must be disclosed, unless the attorney-client privilege or an 
exemption to the Public Records Law applies, hi The burden of justifying continued 
nondisclosure of executive session minutes lies with the public body. Foudv v. Amherst- 
Pelham Regional School Committee, 402 Mass. 179, 184 (1988). A public body, or its chair 
or designee, must, at reasonable intervals, review the minutes of executive sessions to 
determine if continued nondisclosure of those minutes is warranted. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1).
The complainant alleges that the Commission improperly withheld certain executive 
sessions minutes from 2016 and 2017 in response to her request. The Commission responds 
that it decided to withhold certain executive session minutes from meetings in which the 
Commission discussed pending litigation pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“to discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so
2

===PAGE 3===
declares”) (“Purpose 3”). Because the discussions concerned litigation matters that remained 
pending, the Commission had an ongoing litigation position to protect. We therefore find that 
it was appropriate to continue to withhold those executive sessions minutes from public 
disclosure until the matters had concluded. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f); OML 2017-175; OML 
2017-95; OML 2016-57.3 Accordingly, the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We note that the Commission plans to release those executive session minutes once the 
litigation matters have concluded.
The complainant also alleges that the Commission failed to conduct a periodic review 
of its executive session minutes at reasonable intervals. Public bodies have an obligation to 
review the minutes of executive sessions at reasonable intervals to determine if continued 
non-disclosure of minutes is warranted, and to announce that determination at the next 
meeting following its review. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). Although “reasonable interval” is not 
defined by the law, our office has found a quarterly review or a review every six months to be 
appropriate. See OML 2017-104; OML 2015-166; OML 2013-180. Because the 
Administrator, as the Commission’s designee, conducts a monthly review of the 
Commission’s executive session minutes, we find that the Commission complies with this 
requirement under the Open Meeting Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Commission. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Hanne Rush
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Margaret  Sheehan, Esq.
Plymouth County Commission
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www. mass. go v/ago/openmeeting.
3
