===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
May 10, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 91 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Brian Martin 
Chair, Tyngsborough Housing Authority Board of Commissioners 
198 Middlesex Rd. 
Tyngsborough, MA 01879 
 
 
    
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Martin:  
 
On March 7, 2024, this office received a complaint from Donna Tourville, alleging that 
the Tyngsborough Housing Authority Board of Commissioners (the “Board”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on 
February 6.
1  You responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated February 20.2  The 
complainant alleges that the Board, specifically the Chair and members Donald Lampron and 
John Pelletier, colluded outside of a posted meeting to remove the executive director of the 
Housing Authority. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint, the response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.   
 
FACTS 
  
We find the facts as follows.  The Board met on January 31.  When the Board reached the 
topic listed in the notice as “Executive Directors [sic] Review,” the Chair “tabled” the evaluation 
process because not all evaluations had been received or reviewed.  There followed a discussion 
regarding the executive director’s salary and a vote to maintain the same salary for FY 2025.  
Member Donald Lampron moved not to renew the contract with the current executive director.  
The motion was seconded by member Pelletier and carried by a unanimous vote.  The Chair 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2024. 
2 Hereinafter, you are referenced in the third person, as the Chair. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
distributed information to guide a search for a new executive director, including a proposed 
contract with a consultant to conduct the search.  A Housing Authority tenant in attendance at the 
meeting requested, but was denied, an opportunity to speak.  Member Pelletier moved to accept 
the contract with the consultant and to authorize the Chair to execute it.  The motion was 
seconded by member Page and carried by a unanimous vote.     
 
On February 15, the Board held a special meeting to address the allegations of the instant 
complaint.  At that meeting, members of the Board were asked directly whether they spoke with 
one another about whether to renew the contract with the executive director prior to the meeting 
of January 31.  They all denied any such communication.     
 
DISCUSSION 
  
The complainant alleges that three members colluded to oust the executive director of the 
Housing Authority, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  Without saying so explicitly, the 
complainant alleges that three members (the Chair and members Lampron and Pelletier) 
communicated outside of a posted meeting to coordinate the removal. 
 
The complainant has not articulated specific facts supporting his speculation that 
members of the Board deliberated outside of a posted meeting.  When questioned, members of 
the Board denied any such communication.  The complainant accuses the members of lying,
3 but 
concedes that he has “no knowledge of this, and therefore no evidence to put forth in this 
regard.”  Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s account of the 
facts.  See OML 2023-121; OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141; see also LaPointe v. License Board 
of Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) (“There is every presumption in favor of the honesty and 
sufficiency of the motives actuating public officers in actions ostensibly taken for the general 
welfare.”)  We have explained on many occasions that mere speculation or conjecture regarding 
deliberation outside of a posted meeting, without factual support, is insufficient to support a 
complaint’s allegations.  See, e.g., OML 2024-14; OML 2023-242; OML 2014-114; OML 2012-
59; see also G.L. c. 30A, § 24(a) (“Whenever the attorney general has reasonable cause to 
believe that a person, including any public body . . . has violated the open meeting law, the 
attorney general may conduct an investigation to ascertain whether in fact such person has 
violated the open meeting law.”)  As there is no evidence that members of the Board deliberated 
outside of a meeting, we find no violation.      
 
  
 
3 When requesting review of his complaint, the complainant asks “how do you explain the fact that Chairperson 
Brian Martin immediately passed out documents to the other Board members from the state in regards to how to 
conduct a search for a new Executive Director, as well as information about retaining a consultant[?]” (emphasis 
in the original). 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the ways alleged.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions. 
Sincerely,  
  
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Donna Tourville (via email: )  
 Peter Nicosia, Esq. (via email: nicosia@nicosia-associates.com) 
  Tyngsborough Town Clerk (via email: clerk@tyngsboroughma.gov)  
  
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
 
