===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
        August 19, 2020 
        OML 2020-104 
VIA EMAIL 
Cynthia Amara, Esq.  
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410  
Quincy, MA 02169 
camara@mhtl.com  
 
 RE:        Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Amara: 
 
 This office received a complaint from Christine McCue Potts on April 23, 2020 alleging 
that the Medfield School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on October 18, 2019, and 
your office responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated April 6, 2020, following an 
extension of time granted by our office. The complaint alleges that the Committee violated the 
Open Meeting Law by deliberating on a topic initially noticed for an executive session, during an 
open session.  
 
 Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s 
response to the complaint, and the request for further review filed with our office. In addition, we 
reviewed the notice and open session minutes of the September 19 meeting.1  
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows. The Committee posted notice at 3:00 p.m. on September 17 
for its September 19 meeting. The meeting notice included the heading “Executive Session” with 
a description that read: “[t]o discuss strategy with respect to litigation if an open meeting may 
have detrimental effect on the litigating position of the public body. (Open Meeting Law 
mediation with Chris McCue Potts).” After the meeting notice was posted, Counsel informed the 
Committee’s Chair that the mediation matter could not be discussed in executive session under 
the description of “litigation.” Based on this advice, the Committee’s Chair decided to discuss 
 
1 Unless otherwise noted, all dates refer to the year 2019.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
the mediation topic in open session instead of executive session. The Committee did not update 
the meeting notice to reflect this change.  
 
 On September 19, the Committee met as planned. The Committee discussed the 
mediation topic in open session, and voted to form a mediation sub-committee for the upcoming 
mediation with Ms. Potts. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened for one of ten 
enumerated purposes. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. However, the Open Meeting Law does 
not require that a public body discuss any particular topic in executive session, even when it 
would be permitted to do so. Executive session topics must be described, both in 
the meeting notice and in an announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(b)(3).  
 
 The complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating 
during an open session on a topic initially noticed for an executive session. Public bodies may 
discuss topics in open session that were included on the meeting notice for executive session, and 
may be forced to do so if the vote to enter executive session fails. See OML 2019-150.2 
Notwithstanding a meeting notice’s inclusion of an executive session, there is never a guarantee 
that a public body will enter into executive session. The public body must meet in open session 
to vote to enter into executive session; this vote could fail, or the public body could otherwise 
choose not to convene in executive session. See OML 2013-856 (Board, realizing that it had 
posted notice for an improper executive session topic, chose to hold the meeting in open 
session). Interested members of the public may attend the open session of the public body so that 
they can learn of the topic to be discussed in executive session and to be present in case the 
public body does not enter into executive session and instead holds its discussion in open 
session. Although a public body should not notice topics for executive session that it fully 
intends to discuss in open session with the intent of discouraging public attendance at meetings, 
we find no evidence that is what occurred here. Therefore, we find no violation of the Open 
Meeting Law as the Committee decided to discuss a topic in an open session which was noticed 
as an executive session.  
 
CONCLUSION  
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Chase 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
Assisted by: Alina Cathcart, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government 
 
cc:       Christine McCue Potts (via e-mail:  ) 
Medfield School Committee c/o Anna Mae O’Shea Brooke (via e-mail: 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
