===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
January 22, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 15 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Thomas A. Mullen, Esq.  
Law Office of Thomas A. Mullen, P.C.  
40 Salem Street 
Building 2, Suite 12 
Lynnfield, MA 01940 
tmullen@thomasamullenpc.com  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Mullen: 
 
This office received two complaints alleging that the Wakefield School Committee (the 
“Committee”) and its Finance and Facilities Subcommittee (the “Subcommittee”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The first complaint was filed with our office by Scot 
McCauley on June 16, 2025, and the second was filed with our office by Julie Scott on August 
21, 2025.
1 Mr. McCauley’s complaint was originally filed with the Committee on May 3, and 
you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated May 22. Ms. Scot’s complaint was 
originally filed with the Committee on May 30, and you responded on behalf of the Committee 
by letter dated June 20. The two complaints are quite broad and raise several concerns about the 
Committee and its subcommittees failing to create and maintain meeting minutes, timely approve 
meeting minutes, post minutes to a website, periodically review executive session minutes for 
release, and properly respond to requests for meeting minutes. The complaints also raise 
concerns about the location at which the Subcommittee meets, the accessibility of meetings, and 
the sufficiency of executive session notice topics.
2  
 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 Mr. McCauley’s complaint additionally alleges that the Town’s Finance Committee may have violated the Open 
Meeting Law by attending meetings of the Subcommittee. We decline to review whether the Finance Committee 
may have violated the Open Meeting Law where it does not appear that the complaint was filed with the Finance 
Committee and where we do not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations. See  G.L. 
c. 30A, § 23(b); OML 2021-133; OML Declination 3-20-12 (Wilmington Board of Assessors).  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Following our review, we find that 1) the Committee and Subcommittee failed to respond 
to Mr. McCauley’s April 16 request for meeting minutes; 2) the Committee included an 
insufficient executive session topic on the notice for its April 29 meeting; and 3) the Committee 
failed to convene in open session prior to convening in executive session. We find no evidence 
that the Subcommittee’s April 4 meeting was inaccessible to the public, and we find that the 
Subcommittee did not post an insufficient notice for its May 23 meeting. For the reasons 
discussed below, we decline to review the remainder of the allegations raised in the two 
complaints. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the 
Committee’s responses, and the requests for further review. We also reviewed the notice for and 
minutes of the Subcommittee’s May 23 meeting.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We decline to review allegations that are insufficiently specific, untimely raised, or, 
even if true, would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
 Open Meeting Law complaints must be filed with the public body alleged to have 
violated the Open Meeting Law within 30 days of the alleged violation, or, if the alleged 
violation could not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then within 30 days of 
the date it should reasonably have been discovered. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4). 
When reviewing the timeliness of a complaint we consider when the action that is alleged to 
have violated the Open Meeting Law was reasonably discoverable, not when an individual 
complainant became aware of the action or of the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. See 
OML Declination 9-27-2021 (Ashland Select Board) (finding allegation that board failed to 
respond to a request for meeting minutes untimely where it was filed more than 30 days after the 
date on which it was discoverable that the board had failed to respond to the request); OML 
Declination 12-18-20 (Pembroke Board of Health); OML Declination 5-21-12 (Montague Board 
of Selectmen).
3 When an alleged violation occurs during an open session, the alleged violation is 
reasonably discoverable at the time it occurs. See OML Declination 7-20-17 (Edgartown 
Planning Board); OML 2014-85, n. 1; OML 2012-52.  
 
Additionally, complainants must allege violations with a degree of specificity, as our 
office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations. See OML 
2025-135 (declining to review whether meeting notices were insufficient where the complaint 
did not identify specific notices or topics alleged to be insufficient); OML 2024-204 (declining to 
review, among other things, nine complaints that alleged that, in general, 24 sets of meeting 
minutes were insufficient and failed to list documents used, where the complaints did not 
identify particular deficiencies or particular documents alleged to have been used but not listed); 
OML 2021-133; OML Declination 3-20-12 (Wilmington Board of Assessors).  
 
Finally, the Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Open Meeting Law does not require that public bodies 
post meeting minutes to a website nor does it require that public bodies provide for public 
participation. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g) (“No person shall address a meeting of a public body without 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.”); OML 
Declination 11-29-2021 (Andover Select Board) (“The Open Meeting Law does not require that 
a public body allow public participation, but rather gives the chair of the public body discretion 
to decide whether to permit public comment during a meeting.”); OML Declination 6-19-2018 
(Ashland Zoning Board of Appeals) (declining to review whether the board failed to post 
minutes to a website where the Open Meeting Law does not require that it do so).4 Furthermore, 
the Division does not review for compliance with town bylaws. See OML Declination 7-16-2020 
(Greater Lowell Technical School Committee); OML Declination 1-19-2016 (Southborough 
Zoning Board of Appeals); OML Declination 3-11-2013 (Abington Conservation Commission). 
 
We understand the goal of each complaint to be, at least in part, to demonstrate that the 
Committee and Subcommittee have a pattern of failing to comply with the Open Meeting Law 
and with Town bylaws. We find that the complaints seek precisely the type of broad audit that 
our office declines to perform. As such, we decline to review any allegations that do not clearly, 
and with sufficient specificity, identify a discrete violation of the Open Meeting Law, including 
declining to review any allegations that, even if true, would not constitute a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law. Additionally, we decline to review all allegations that were raised more than 30 
days after the date of the alleged violation or the date on which the violation should reasonably 
have been discovered.
5 The remaining allegations, which we review, are discussed below. 
 
II. We find that the Committee and Subcommittee failed to respond to Mr. McCauley’s 
April 16 request for meeting minutes.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The Open Meeting 
Law further provides that “[m]inutes of all open sessions shall be created and approved in a 
timely manner. The minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft 
form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 days.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  
 
With respect to executive session minutes, a public body may withhold the minutes from 
disclosure to the public for “as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the 
executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). Once the purpose for the executive 
session “has been served, the minutes, preparatory materials and documents and exhibits of the 
session shall be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or 1 or more of the exemptions 
under [the Public Records Law] apply to withhold these records, or any portion thereof, from 
disclosure.” Id. A public body has an obligation to review its executive session minutes at 
 
4 Although the Open Meeting Law does not require that meeting minutes be posted to a website , this may be a 
requirement of the Public Records Law. See Section 16 of Chapter 121 of the Acts of 2016 and G.L. c. 66, 
§ 19(b)(vii). Questions about compliance with the Public Records Law should be directed to the Supervisor of 
Records within the Office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth. Additionally, although the Open Meeting Law 
does not require that public bodies allow for public participation, our office encourages public bodies to allow for as 
much public participation as time and circumstances allow. 
5 We note that with respect to the allegation in Mr. McCauley’s complaint that it took 25 minutes for him to gain 
access to a February 25 meeting due to the notice having been amended to include the wrong Zoom link, the fact 
that it took 25 minutes to access the meeting was discoverable on February 25. Additionally, the video recording of 
the February 25 meeting which Mr. McCauley asserts alerted him to the fact that he had indeed missed a portion of 
the meeting when he was unable to gain access for 25 minutes was posted online in March . 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
reasonable intervals to determine if continued nondisclosure of the minutes is warranted, and to 
announce that determination at the next meeting following such review, recording the 
announcement in the minutes of that meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1); see also OML 2013-56; 
OML 2015-94. Although “reasonable interval” is not defined in the Open Meeting Law, our 
office has found a quarterly review or a review every six months to be appropriate. See OML 
2020-101; OML 2019-45; OML 2017-104. 
 
A public body must respond to a request for executive session minutes within 10 days. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). If the public body has determined, prior to the request, that certain 
executive session minutes should be released, it should respond to the requester directly, 
notifying them of the availability of those minutes. If the body has determined that executive 
session minutes should remain confidential because the lawful executive session purposes 
remain ongoing, it should respond by stating the reason the minutes continue to be withheld. If at 
the time of a request the public body has not recently conducted a review of the minutes to 
determine whether continued nondisclosure is warranted, the body must perform such a review 
and release the minutes, if appropriate, no later than its next meeting or within 30 days, 
whichever occurs first. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). In such circumstances, the body should still 
respond to the requester within 10 days, notifying the requester that the body is conducting this 
review. See OML 2013-99; 2013-105; OML 2022-200; OML 2022-194; OML 2023-53. 
 
On April 16 Mr. McCauley made a request under the Open Meeting Law for draft or final 
minutes of all Subcommittee meetings held since January of 2024 and “meeting minutes for any 
Executive session either by the full committee or any subcommittee where the topic of those 
executive session meetings have been resolved since Jan 2024.” Based on the complaint, emails 
attached to the complaint, and the Committee’s response, we understand that the Committee and 
Subcommittee failed to provide the Complainant with the requested open session minutes and 
failed to review executive session minutes in response to the request. As such, we find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law.  
 
Additionally, the Committee’s response suggests that it has failed to create and maintain 
meeting minutes. The Committee explains that the sudden death of its secretary in September of 
2024 “has complicated and slowed the Committee’s processing of minutes.” Although we 
appreciate the impact that the sudden loss may have had on the Committee, the responsibility for 
complying with the Open Meeting Law rests with public bodies and members of such bodies, not 
with individual public employees, such as administrative staff. See OML 2018-105. If staff 
resources are not available to create minutes for a public body to approve, then public body 
members must take on this responsibility to ensure compliance with the Open Meeting Law. See 
OML 2024-227; OML 2019-163; OML 2018-111.  
 
III. We find that the Committee included an insufficient executive session topic on the 
notice for its April 29 meeting and failed to convene in open session prior to 
convening in executive session. 
 
All meetings of a public body shall be open to the public, unless properly convened in 
executive session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a); 21. Prior to convening in executive session, the public 
body must follow established procedures, including announcing the purpose for the executive 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
session; taking a roll call vote to enter executive session, a vote that could fail in which case the 
body may choose to discuss the matter in open session; and announcing whether the body will 
reconvene in open session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b); see also OML 2013-856 (Board, realizing that it 
had posted notice for an improper executive session topic, chose to hold the meeting in open 
session). The public body must take these procedural steps in open session and the public has a 
right to observe the body taking these steps in order to learn the purpose for the executive session 
and to be present should the discussion be held in open session instead. See OML 2020-104; 
OML 2013-856.  
 
A public body may convene in executive session for one or more of the ten purposes set 
forth in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One such purpose allows a public body to 
convene in executive session to “conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with 
nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with 
nonunion personnel” (“Purpose 2”). G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2). Another purpose allows a public 
body to convene in executive session “to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining . . 
. if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining . . . position of the public 
body and the chair so declares” (“Purpose 3”). G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). When convening in 
executive session pursuant to Purpose 2 or Purpose 3, a public body must identify, both on the 
meeting notice and in the open session announcement prior to convening in executive session, 
the collective bargaining unit or nonunion personnel with whom it will be negotiating, if doing 
so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy. See OML 2017-53; OML 2016-43; OML 
2015-87; OML 2013-129. We have stated that a public body may withhold the identity of an 
employee out of concern for an individual’s privacy when convening in executive session under 
Purpose 3. See OML 2015-180.  
 
We understand Mr. McCauley’s complaint to allege that with respect to an amended 
meeting notice for the Committee’s April 29 meeting, the following executive session topic was 
insufficient:  
 
Possible Executive Session: Under Open Meeting Law Executive Session 
exemptions #2 and #3: To discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining as 
an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating 
position of the public body and the Chair so declares.
6  
 
The Committee does not dispute that the above executive session notice topic was insufficient 
nor does the Committee assert that identifying the specific collective bargaining units to be 
discussed would have compromised the purpose for the executive session. Instead, the 
Committee acknowledges that, “[a]s the complaint demonstrates, sometimes when the 
Committee goes into executive session to discuss collective bargaining negotiations, its meeting 
notices specify the union contracts at issue very clearly, and in other instances only the statutory 
language of G.L. c. 30A, §21 is included.” The Committee further responds that “[g]oing 
forward the Committee will ensure that its agendas make clear both the statutory rationale and 
the specific contracts at issue.” Based on the information before us, we find that the Committee 
 
6 The complainant also notes that an earlier version of the notice appears to include additional information regarding 
the specific purpose of the executive session, questioning why the notice was amended to include less detail.  
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
violated the Open Meeting Law by including an insufficiently specific executive session topic on 
the notice for its April 29 meeting.  
 
 Next, we understand Mr. McCauley’s complaint to allege that the Committee violated the 
Open Meeting Law on April 29 by failing to first convene in open session to perform the 
required procedural steps prior to convening in executive session. The Committee does not 
dispute that it failed to meet in open session on April 29 to conduct the required convening 
procedures. Instead, the Committee “acknowledges that on one or more occasions the Committee 
opened its meeting in executive session without first convening in [open session],” and explains 
that “[t]he Committee understands that every meeting must commence in open session, even if 
the only business to be conducted is anticipated to be done in executive session.” (emphasis in 
original). Based on the information before us, we find that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to convene in open session to conduct the required procedural steps prior 
to convening in executive session. 
 
IV. We find no evidence that the Subcommittee’s April 4 meeting was 
inaccessible to the public. 
 
At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement that meetings of public bodies be 
open and accessible to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except when meeting in executive 
session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”). Generally, access to a 
meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present as well as to see and hear what is 
being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2020-100; OML 2018-75; OML 
2016-54. For a meeting to be truly “open to the public,” it must be held at a location that is 
accessible to persons with disabilities. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); OML 2012-49 (stating that 
meetings of public bodies must be held in locations that are compliant with the Americans with 
Disabilities Act). Furthermore, public bodies must make reasonable accommodations for larger-
than-usual or overflow crowds. See OML 2024-14; OML 2023-205; OML 2021-91; OML 2017-
135.  
 
The Subcommittee posted notice for a meeting to be held on April 4 at 8:00 a.m. in the 
Superintendent’s Office Conference Room located at 60 Farm Street, Wakefield, MA 01880.  
We understand Mr. McCauley’s complaint to allege that he was unable to access this meeting 
where he “tried to find the Superintendent[’]s conference room [but] . . . failed for many reasons 
including lack of parking, accessibility to the building and unknown location.” However, in an 
April 8 email attached to the complaint, Mr. McCauley explains to Committee member Stephen 
Ingalls that when attempting to attend the April 4 meeting Mr. McCauley “was running late and 
there was no visitor parking that I could find. . . . I witnessed a student having to be buzzed into 
the school and I did not want to go through the hassle of having to check into the main office to 
attend a public meeting inside the superintendent[’]s office when the meeting had already 
started.” In response to the complaint, the Committee explains that “[w]hen used as a meeting 
place for a public body, the Superintendent’s conference room is open to the public. It is 
handicapped-accessible. Parking is available, though during the school day it is unavoidably 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
tight.” Based on the information before us, we find no basis for concluding that the 
Subcommittee’s April 4 meeting was inaccessible to the public and therefore find no violation.7 
 
 To the extent the complaint alleges that the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting 
Law by holding its meeting at 8:00 a.m., we note that the Open Meeting Law does not dictate 
when a public body may hold a meeting. See OML Declination 11-26-2024 (Lawrence Alliance 
for Education); OML 2018-27. Although a public body should not schedule a meeting with the 
intent of discouraging attendance at the meeting, no evidence has been presented to suggest that 
the Subcommittee’s meeting was scheduled at 8:00 a.m. with the intent of discouraging 
attendance, and the Committee explains in its response that the meeting time of 8:00 a.m. was 
chosen because it was the most convenient time for the volunteer Subcommittee members. To 
the extent the complaint alleges that the Subcommittee may not hold meetings in a building that 
has security measures, we have found that security policies that are reasonable, consistently 
applied, and not used as pretext to unlawfully exclude certain members of the public do not run 
afoul of the Open Meeting Law. Compare OML 2024-164 (security policy requiring photo 
identification for all visitors entering government offices could be enforced as to persons 
entering offices to attend public meeting) and OML 2015-92 (same), with OML 2025-73 (board 
violated the Open Meeting Law when it required two attendees who had been critical of the 
board to provide photo identification when attending a meeting and the board was not enforcing 
a pre-existing security policy that applied to all attendees).  
 
Finally, to the extent the complaint alleges that the Subcommittee is required to provide 
remote access to its meetings, we note that when all public body members participate in a 
meeting remotely or when a public body meets in person without providing the public physical 
access to the meeting location, the public body must then provide the public with adequate, 
alternative access to the meeting. See OML 2020-111; OML 2020-100. However, a public body 
may hold in-person meetings without providing remote access to the public as long as the public 
may access the meeting in person. Although public bodies are not required to provide multiple 
means of access to their meetings, to ensure the greatest transparency consistent with the goals of 
the Open Meeting Law, we encourage public bodies to offer the public multiple means of access 
when possible. 
 
V. We find that the Subcommittee did not post an insufficient notice for its meeting held 
on May 23. 
 
We understand Ms. Scot’s complaint to allege that the notice for the Subcommittee’s 
May 23 meeting was insufficient in three ways: first, the notice did not list the specific meeting 
minutes to be reviewed; second, the notice included the acronym “OML”; and third, a notice 
topic including the language “Unanticipated EOY expenses to the district” was insufficiently 
specific.  
 
 
7 Mr. McCauley asserts that in OML 2013-70 our office suggested that the Superintendent’s conference room was 
not an appropriate place to hold a meeting. In OML 2013-70 the accessibility of the Superintendent’s conference 
room was not before us. Instead, in a footnote we reminded the Committee that meetings must be held in locations 
that are accessible to the public and noted that the actual meeting location may have been different than what was 
listed on the meeting notice. 
===PAGE 8===
8 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to the meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and that every 
notice include “the date, time and place of the meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A public body is 
required to list topics on a notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of 
the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a topic 
sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand 
the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35. When reviewing a 
meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a 
meeting notice standing alone. See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155. Rather, we review what 
was actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently specific to make 
the public aware of the discussion topics. Where a public body does not actually engage in any 
deliberation on a particular topic, it cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the 
sufficiency of the meeting notice as it pertains to that topic. See OML 2019-94; OML 2016-76. 
 
The Attorney General’s Office discourages public bodies from including on meeting 
notices abbreviations or acronyms that are not commonly understood. Compare OML 2020-137 
(finding that “PEC” is not a widely understood acronym) and OML 2016-5 (finding the acronym 
“PILOT” is not one that members of the public are likely to understand) with OML 2015-172 
(concluding that “FAA” is a widely understood acronym). When it is anticipated that a particular 
set of meeting minutes will be discussed at a meeting, the notice should identify the specific 
meeting minutes to be discussed. See OML 2023-135; OML 2022-67; OML 2020-34. Finally, 
when it is anticipated that the body will discuss an Open Meeting Law complaint, the notice 
should generally include the name of the person who filed the Open Meeting Law complaint or 
other identifying information about the complaint. See OML 2019-32; OML 2013-82. 
 
Based on a review of the minutes of the Subcommittee’s May 23 meeting, we find no 
violation with respect to the allegations raised regarding the notice for that meeting. With respect 
to the allegation that the notice failed to list the specific meeting minutes that would be reviewed, 
it appears that the Subcommittee discussed the fact that, in general, it was behind in creating and 
approving meeting minutes, rather than reviewing specific sets of meeting minutes. Therefore, 
we find no violation with respect to this allegation. Although we find no violation, we remind the 
Subcommittee that when it anticipates discussing specific meeting minutes it must list those 
minutes on the meeting notice.  
 
Additionally, we find no violation with respect to the allegation that the acronym “OML” 
is insufficient where, based on the meeting minutes, it does not appear that the Subcommittee 
discussed an Open Meeting Law complaint. Likewise, we decline to find a violation with respect 
to the language “Unanticipated EOY expenses to the district” where the topic that included this 
language was tabled and the Subcommittee did not discuss the matter. Again, although we do not 
find a violation, we remind the Subcommittee that meeting notice topics must include sufficient 
specificity to reasonably inform a member of the public, including a member who is not 
necessarily familiar with the Subcommittee’s work, of the anticipated nature of the discussions to 
be held. Finally, we remind the Subcommittee that it should not include on its meeting notices 
acronyms and abbreviations that are not commonly understood.  
 
===PAGE 9===
9 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that 1) the Committee and Subcommittee failed to 
respond to Mr. McCauley’s April 16 request for meeting minutes; 2) the Committee included an 
insufficient executive session topic on the notice for its April 29 meeting; and 3) the Committee 
failed to convene in open session prior to convening in executive session. We order the 
Committee’s and Subcommittee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law 
and caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the 
Law. Furthermore, we order the Committee and Subcommittee, if they have not already, to 
respond to Mr. McCauley’s request for meeting minutes and to certify to our office within 30 
days of the date of this letter that they have done so. Finally, because of the multiple and various 
violations we find here, and because we have previously warned the Committee of the 
requirement to respond to requests for meeting minutes, we further order all members of the 
Committee and Subcommittee to attend an Open Meeting Law training provided by our office 
within 90 days of the date of this letter and to certify to our office that they have done so.
8 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee, 
the Subcommittee, or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if 
you have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,      
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Kevin Fontanella, Chair, Wakefield School Committee  
(via email: kevin.fontanella@wpsk12.org) 
Thomas Markham, Chair, Finance and Facilities Subcommittee  
(via email: tom.markham@wpsk12.org) 
 Betsy Sheeran, Wakefield Town Clerk (via email: bsheeran@wakefield.ma.us) 
Scot McCauley (via email: ) 
Julie Scott (via email: ) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
8 Information about upcoming Open Meeting Law webinar trainings, please see our website at 
https://www.mass.gov/info-details/open-meeting-law-trainings.  
