===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 18, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 205 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Michael Reggio  
Chair, Ashby Public Safety Building Committee 
   
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Reggio: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick McPhee on September 12, 2022,
1 alleging 
that the Ashby Public Safety Building Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on August 
8, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by email to Mr. McPhee.2 The complaint 
alleges that the Committee met on May 11, June 8, and June 15, 2020, but did not post notices 
for these meetings. Additionally, in the complaint Mr. McPhee requests 23 sets of meeting 
minutes. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to respond to the request for meeting minutes. We find that the Committee did not 
otherwise violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed 
the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Chair’s communication with our office, the request for 
further review, additional information provided by Mr. McPhee, and the Town of Ashby’s 
website. We also communicated with Mr. McPhee by telephone and email.  
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 It is does not appear that the Committee met to review the complaint nor that the Committee formally responded to 
the complaint. Rather, in response to the complaint, the Chair (for the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third 
person) emailed Mr. McPhee stating that the Chair would “look into it.” We remind the Committee of its obligation 
to comply with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, including the requirement to review and respond to 
Open Meeting Law complaints within 14 business days. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The May 11, June 8, and June 15, 2020, Meetings 
 
 The Committee has five voting members and three non-voting members. Because non-
voting members do not count for the purpose of measuring quorum, the Committee’s quorum is 
three members. The Committee’s voting members include Chair Mike Reggio, Matt Alfond, 
Garry Baer, Cathy Biliouris, and Mark Haines. The Committee’s non-voting members include 
Police Chief Fred Alden, Fire Chief Mike Bussell, and Tony DiLuzio of Colliers International, 
which provides project management services for the public safety building project.  
 
On May 11, June 8, and June 15, 2020, various representatives from Colliers 
International as well as other entities involved in the public safety building project—including 
Caolo & Bienek Associates and PLACES Associates, Inc.—met to discuss design development 
for the project. Fire Chief Mike Bussell and Police Chief Fred Alden attended all three meetings. 
The Chair of the Committee, Mike Reggio, attended the June 8, 2020, meeting. Colliers 
International prepared “Design Minutes” of these meetings, which appear on Colliers 
International letterhead and consist of a chart of various action items and those individuals 
responsible for each action item. These Design Minutes were posted to the Committee’s 
webpage. The Committee did not post notices for any of the three meetings.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by meeting on 
May 11, June 8, and June 15, 2020, without posting notice. The Open Meeting Law requires that 
public bodies post notice at least 48 hours before any meeting of that body, and that all meetings 
be open to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a)&(b). A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. “Deliberation” is defined, in relevant part, as “an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id. No voting member of the Committee attended the 
May 11 or June 15, 2020, design development meeting, and only one voting member of the 
Committee attended the June 8, 2020, design development meeting. Therefore, we find that the 
Committee did not hold a meeting, as that term is defined in the Open Meeting Law, on May 11, 
June 8, or June 15, 2020, and did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to post notice for 
meetings on those dates.  
 
Release of Meeting Minutes 
 
 In the complaint, Mr. McPhee request ed 23 sets of meeting minutes. Specifically, he 
requested minutes for meetings held on the following dates: April 29, June 29, August 24, 
September 14, September 21, October 3, November 23, December 2, and December 17 of 2020; 
April 22, May 27, June 24, July 1, July 26, September 4, October 20, and December 6 of 2021; 
and January 3, April 4, May 2, May 25, June 6, and July 6 of 2022.  
 
 Public bodies must create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(a). The minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft form, 
shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 days. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). Here, 
Mr. McPhee, through his Open Meeting Law complaint filed with the Board on August 8, 
requested 23 sets of meeting minutes. After further communication with Mr. McPhee, we 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
understand that the Committee has not responded to this request. Therefore, we find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to respond to a request for meeting 
minutes. We order the Committee to respond to Mr. McPhee within 15 days of the date of this 
letter and either provide copies of the requested meeting minutes, direct Mr. McPhee to where 
the minutes may be located online, or, if any minutes do not exist, explain why those minutes do 
not exist.
3 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to respond to a request for meeting minutes. We order the Committee’s immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar future violations could 
be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. We further order the Committee to 
respond to Mr. McPhee’s request for meeting minutes as outlined above within 15 days of the 
date of this letter. Finally, we find that the Committee did not otherwise violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick McPhee (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
3 We note that for two meetings, May 27 and October 20 of 2021, there are documents posted on the Town’s website 
that are labeled “minutes”; however, these documents appear to be annotated meeting notices and not meeting 
minutes.  
