===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 23, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 119 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Robert O’Shea 
Chair, Harvard Parks and Recreation Commission 
   
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair O’Shea: 
 
This office received a complaint from Deborah Skauen-Hinchliffe on October 27, 2021,
1 
alleging that the Harvard Parks and Recreation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Commission on or about August 30, and, after an extension of time granted by or office, you 
responded on behalf of the Commission by email dated September 16. The complaint alleges that 
on August 9 the Commission convened in executive session for an improper purpose.
2 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing topics in 
executive session that were not appropriate for executive session. In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Commission’s response, the request for 
further review, the notice for the August 9 meeting, and the open and executive session minutes 
for the August 9 meeting. We also communicated with the Chair via email.
3 
 
 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2021 unless otherwise stated. 
2 The Complainant raises an additional allegation in the request for further review which we decline to review as it 
was not raised in an Open Meeting Law complaint filed with the Commission. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 
29.05. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Commission posted notice for a meeting to be 
held on August 9. The notice included one substantive topic which read “Roll Call vote to enter 
Executive Session pursuant to MGL Chapter 30A, §21(6), To consider the purchase, exchange, 
lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the negotiating position of the public body; . . . under OML exemption #6.”  
 
The Commission convened in executive session on August 9 as scheduled. Because the 
Commission has not yet publicly released the minutes of this executive session, we do not 
recount their content in detail here. However, we note that the Commission discussed the need 
for a code of conduct policy for town property; a requirement that the Community Resiliency 
Working Group endorse all Community Preservation Committee requests; the potential use of 
particular real property; and the potential exchange or acquisition of certain real property.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
delibe
rations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). All meetings of a public body must be conducted in an 
open session, unless a closed-door executive session is convened for one of ten permissible 
purposes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). When meeting in executive session, a public body may 
only address subjects related to the narrow executive session purpose the public body cited when 
entering executive session. See District Attorney for the Northwestern District v. Selectmen of 
Sunderland, 11 Mass. App. Ct. 663, 666 (1981) (executive session may not be used as a blanket 
reason to deliberate on matters other than those pertaining to the specific purpose for which 
executive session was called). 
 
One statutory purpose for executive session is to “consider the purchase, exchange, lease 
or val
ue of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect 
on the negotiating position of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) (“Purpose 6”). Purpose 6, 
narrowly construed, permits a public body to meet in executive session to protect its negotiating 
position when seeking to purchase, exchange, or lease real estate, or to discuss the value of real 
estate where it has a negotiating position relative to that property. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6); 
Allen v. Board of Selectmen of Belmont, 58 Mass. App. Ct. 715, 719-721 (2003); OML 2019-
143; OML 2016-50.4 Purpose 6 is intended to preserve confidentiality in negotiating the value of 
the property to be purchased, exchanged, or leased to avoid putting the public body at a 
disadvantage in its negotiations for the property. See Allen, 58 Mass. App. Ct. at 720; OML 
2016-50; OML 2019-10. General discussions regarding real property or the use of real property, 
where there is no negotiating position to protect, do not fall within the executive session purpose. 
See OML 2019-59; OML 2012-98 (“Potential uses for land and whether or not to go ahead with 
a project are not proper discussions under Purpose 6.”). The public body bears the burden of 
demonstrating applicability of the claimed executive session purpose. See District Attorney for 
the N. Dist. v. School Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 566 (2009).  
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
Our in camera re view of the minutes for the August 9 executive session and follow-up 
communications with the Commission’s Chair reveal that the Commission discussed matters that 
were not appropriate for executive session, as well as matters that were appropriate for executive 
session under Purpose 6. The matters that were not appropriate for discussion under Purpose 6 or 
any other executive session purpose include the need for a code of conduct policy for town 
property to prevent unauthorized uses of the property; a requirement that the Community 
Resiliency Working Group endorse all Community Preservation Committee requests; and the 
potential use of particular real property. These discussions are reflected in bullet points one 
through three of the executive session minutes. Executive session purposes are narrowly 
construed and discussions under Purpose 6 must directly relate to the purchase, lease, exchange, 
or value of real property where confidentiality is necessary to protect a public body’s negotiating 
position. See OML 2021-175; OML 2021-56. Although the Commission asserts that these 
discussions related to matters that would impact the value of the real property being discussed, 
we are not persuaded that discussions of strategies for responding to improper use and potential 
damage to town property, town permitting policies, and the like, are the type of discussions of 
“value of real property” that are contemplated for discussion in executive session under Purpose 
6. Therefore, we find that these topics were inappropriate for discussion in executive session.  
 
With respect to the remaining topics, including the potential exchange or acquisition of 
certai
n real property and the identification of potential entities to approach regarding buying or 
exchanging real property—as reflected in bullet points four and five of the executive session 
minutes—we find that these discussions, on the whole, were appropriate for executive session 
under Purpose 6. See OML 2018-73 (finding no violation where the public body discussed the 
potential acquisition of alternate elementary school sites in executive session under Purpose 6). 
Although we do not find a violation here with respect to the remaining executive session 
discussions, we remind the Commission that the proper application of Purpose 6 is to protect a 
public body’s negotiating position vis-à-vis other parties to a transaction and not to escape the 
inconvenience of public scrutiny or opposition. See OML 2020-158.  
 
We order the Commission to release, subject to appropriate redaction, the minutes for its 
exec
utive session held on August 9. Redactions may be appropriate with respect to discussions 
of the potential exchange or acquisition of certain real property and the need to identify potential 
entities interested in buying or exchanging real property, as reflected in bullet points four and 
five of the executive session minutes. To the extent the Commission is no longer considering the 
purchase, exchange, lease, or value of a particular piece of property discussed during the 
executive sessions at issue here, it is likely that the need for secrecy regarding those discussions 
has ceased and the minutes should not be withheld or redacted with respect to those discussions. 
See G.L c. 30A, § 22(f) (“The minutes of any executive session . . . may be withheld from 
disclosure to the public . . . as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the 
executive session, but no longer; provided, however, that the executive session was held in 
compliance with section 21.”); see also OML 2021-175. 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by discussing topics in executive session that were not appropriate for executive session. 
We order the Commission’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and 
caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
Additionally, we order the Commission to release the executive session minutes at issue here as 
described above and to provide a copy to the Complainant. Finally, we order each member of the 
Commission to review our training video regarding executive session.
5 The Commission must 
certify to our office within 30 days of the date of this letter that it has complied with this order.    
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Commission 
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Deborah Skauen -Hinchliffe (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
5 The training video may be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Unpmm26zJGY&list=PLEwaMB2rDiKD7uRdMUIu2fpB0r -
pMjZd5&index=5. 
