===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
October 23, 2019 
OML 2019-132
Joan L. Stein, Esq.
Stoneman, Chandler & Miller, LLP 
99 High Street 
Boston, MA 02110
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Stein:
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty on March 22, alleging that the 
Falmouth School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A,
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on February 14; and you 
responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated March 6. The complaint alleges that i) 
the executive session topic listed on the Committee’s January 30 meeting notice lacked sufficient 
detail; and ii) the Committee failed to periodically review executive session minutes to determine 
whether there is a continued purpose for nondisclosure.
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, the complaint 
filed with our office requesting further review, and the notice and executive session minutes of 
the Committee’s January 30 meeting. We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law by posting an insufficiently specific meeting notice but did not violate the law in the other 
way alleged.
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a). Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also 
District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm, of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a]
o
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2019.

===PAGE 2===
precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is 
the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and 
the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”).
A public body may enter executive session “[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation 
for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract 
negotiations with nonunion personnel.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”). When convening 
in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2, a public body must identify the nonunion personnel 
or collective bargaining unit with whom it will be negotiating, if doing so will not compromise 
the lawful purpose for secrecy. See OML 2017-53; OML 2016-43; OML 2013-151.2
The complaint alleges that the executive session topic listed on the January 30 notice 
lacked sufficient detail because it did not identify the collective bargaining unit with whom the 
Committee would be negotiating in executive session. Here, the notice simply listed “Executive 
Session to conduct contract negotiations and to conduct collective bargaining sessions.” The 
Committee does not suggest that inclusion of the collective bargaining units would have 
compromised the purpose for the executive session. See OML 2016-90; OML 2011-11. In fact, 
the Vice-Chair announced at the meeting that the Committee was convening in executive session 
to conduct collective bargaining with “Unit A of the Falmouth Educator’s Association and 
including Units B, C, and D.” As such, we conclude that the topic as listed on the January 30 
notice should have included these bargaining units and failure to do so was a violation of the 
Open Meeting Law. It is our understanding that the Committee now includes such detail on its 
notice, and we commend the Committee for taking prompt remedial action in response to the 
complaint.
The complaint also alleges that the Committee failed to periodically review its executive 
session meeting minutes to determine whether there is a continued purpose for nondisclosure.3 
Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as publication 
may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents 
or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or an 
exemption to the public records law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, from 
disclosure. See id. Public bodies have an obligation to review the minutes of executive sessions 
at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of minutes is warranted, and to 
announce that determination at the next meeting following its review. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1).
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3 Based on our in camera review of the draft executive session minutes, we note that the minutes, should they be 
approved, appear inadequate to meet the standard required by the Open Meeting Law where they do not offer a 
sufficiently detailed summary of the Committee’s three-hour discussions. The minutes should contain enough detail 
and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear 
understanding of what occurred. See OML 2016-105. We remind the Committee of its obligations to create and 
maintain accurate meeting minutes in accordance with the requirements of G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). In addition, we 
remind the Committee of its obligation to approve all meeting minutes, including minutes of executive sessions, in a 
timely manner, which generally means within three meetings or 30 days, whichever is later. See 940 CMR
29.11(2); OML 2019-115.
2

===PAGE 3===
Although “reasonable interval” is not defined by the law, our office has found a quarterly review 
or a review every six months to be appropriate. See OML 2017-104; OML 2015-166; OML 
2013-180.
The complaint does not identify any specific executive session minutes that have not 
been reviewed by the Committee and our office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies 
based on generalized allegations. See OML 2012-106. The Committee states that its practice is 
to periodically review executive session minutes and that minutes involving collective 
bargaining discussions are ongoing, thus nondisclosure is still warranted. Absent evidence to the 
contrary, we credit the public body’s statement and find that the Committee did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law in this regard. See OML 2016-58; 2014-144.
We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, 
and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Ronald Beaty
Falmouth School Committee
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
3
