===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL:(617) 727-2200 
www.tnass.gov/ago 
March 31, 2015 
OML 2015-41 
Mark L. Levin, Esq. 
Levin & Levin 
138 Rock Street 
PO Box 2566 
Fall River, MA 02722 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Levin; 
This office received a complaint from CJ Ferry dated February 19, 2015, alleging that the Fall 
River Community Development Agency (the Agency) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Agency on or about January 7, 2015, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Agency, to Mr. Ferry's complaint by letter dated January 16, 2015. The 
complaint alleges that the Agency failed to post notice of its meeting held on January 7, 2015. 
Following our review, we find that the Agency is not a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law and therefore could not violate the Law. In reaching this decision, we reviewed the 
original complaint; your response; and the complaint filed with our office, requesting further review. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The City of Fall River (the City) created the Agency to 
administer and distribute federal funds available from the United States Department of Housing and 
Urban Development (HUD) for community planning and development programs in the City. The 
Mayor appointed Michael Dion as Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer of the Agency. The 
Agency also has several other employees, however Mr. Dion is solely responsible for evaluating and 
making decisions about public requests for certain HUD funding. On January 7, 2015, the Agency 
held its annual hearing, which HUD requires for the purpose of soliciting input from individuals and 
entities concerning the distribution of funds available through its various funding programs.1 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law defines a "public body," in relevant part, as "a multiple member board, 
commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any 
county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, 
1 HUD establishes the notice requirements for this annual hearing. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
established to serve a public purpose[.]" G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (emphasis added). To determine whether 
the Agency is a public body subject to the Law, there are three factors to consider that apply to all 
public bodies: 
1. The entity must be "within" government and not excluded from the definition of "public 
body"; 
2. The entity must be a "body," empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a "public purpose." 
The Agency is an office consisting of several employees including Mr. Dion, who is solely 
assigned the task of determining how to distribute certain HUD funding. Though several individuals 
work for the Agency, it is not a multiple member body empowered to act collectively because it does 
not have a fixed membership requiring a vote by a quorum of members in order to make decisions and 
conduct business. See 10-1-12 Declination.2 Therefore, it fails the second prong of this test. 
Furthermore, Mr. Dion is an individual public official who is not a member of a public body and thus 
is not subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-103. Because the Agency is not a multiple 
member body empowered to act collectively, we find that it is not subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
Therefore, the Agency was not obliged to comply with the Law leading up to, and during, the January 
7, 2015 hearing. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Agency is not a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law and therefore could not violate the Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by 
this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may 
be pending with our office or the Agency. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if 
you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: CJ Ferry 
Fall River Community Development Agency 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member of a 
body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
vvww.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 