===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 21, 2014 
OML 2015-104 
Frances S. Parks, Chair 
Cotuit Fire District Prudential Committee 
PO Box 1475 
Cotuit, MA 02635 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Parks: 
This office received a complaint from Amy Kates, dated March 24, 2015, alleging that 
the Cotuit Fire District Prudential Committee (the Committee) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or 
about February 21, 2015, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated 
March 2, 2015.1 In her complaint, Ms. Kates alleges that, based on the Committee's lack of 
discussion prior to appointing a new member at its January 26, 2015 meeting, the Committee 
deliberated outside of a meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching our determination, we reviewed the initial complaint; the Committee's 
response; and the complaint filed with our office, requesting further review. In addition, we 
reviewed the notice, minutes and recordings from the Committee's December 22, 2014 and 
January 26, 2015 meetings. Finally, we spoke by telephone in June 2015 with Committee 
members Laurie Hadley; Frances Parks; and Stanley Goldstein. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a three member public body, thus two 
members constitute a quorum. One of the Committee members passed away in late 2014, 
During the public comment period of the Committee's meeting on December 22, 2014, 
Stanley Goldstein (who was not a member of the Committee at that time) inquired whether 
the Committee planned to appoint an interim member to fill the vacant Committee seat until 
1 For the purpose of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
SEIJJ 
===PAGE 2===
the Town's regular election in May 2015. Mr. Goldstein expressed an interest in filling the 
seat. Ms. Parks indicated that she planned to discuss the issue at the Committee's next 
meeting. 
Ms. Parks and Ms. Hadley did not discuss the vacancy or any potential appointments 
between the date of that meeting and the Committee's next meeting, held on January 26. 
However, as no other individuals contacted the members during that time to express interest 
in the appointment, Ms. Parks called Mr. Goldstein to invite him to attend the Committee's 
January 26, 2015 meeting. At the beginning of the Committee's meeting on that date, Ms. 
Hadley nominated Mr. Goldstein to fill the vacant Committee seat. Ms. Parks asked Mr. 
Goldstein, who was present, if he would accept the nomination, and he agreed. The 
Committee then voted to appoint him. Clerk Charlie Eger was present and swore Mr. 
Goldstein into the position. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. 
c. BOA, § 18. The law defines "deliberation," in relevant part, as "an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum 
of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. 
The complainant alleges that Committee members Parks and Hadley must have 
discussed their decision to appoint Mr. Goldstein to the Committee prior to the meeting on 
January 26, 2015. Because there was no discussion during a public meeting about Mr. 
Goldstein's appointment, she believes the Committee members must have had private 
deliberations on the topic prior to their vote to appoint him. The Committee members deny 
that any such conversations occurred, and state that because Mr. Goldstein was the only 
individual who expressed an interest in filling the vacant interim seat, they did not think that it 
was necessary to discuss the matter prior to appointing him to the position. In the absence of 
evidence to the contrary, we credit the Committee's statement and find that they did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
2 
===PAGE 3===
have any questions. 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Amy Kates 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 