===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
       July 15, 2024 
 
OML 2024 – 124 
   
VIA EMAIL ONLY   
 
Kevin J. Mizikar 
Town Manager  
kmizikar@shrewsburyma.gov    
   
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
   
Dear Mr. Mizikar:   
   
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on April 10, 2024, alleging that the 
Shrewsbury Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, (“OML”) G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or around March 31, 2024, and 
you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated April 10, 2024.
1 The complaint alleges 
that the Board failed to approve the minutes of the February 6 and February 8 meetings in a 
timely manner.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the way 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response, the request for further review, and the notices and minutes of the Board meetings held 
between February 6 and April 9.  
 
FACTS  
  
We find the facts to be as follows. The Board held 12 meetings between February 6 and 
April 9. Specifically, the Board met on February 6, February 8, February 13, February 26, 
February 27, March 5, March 11, March 12, March 21, March 26, April 2 and April 9. 
 
The Board held a “Workshop” meeting on February 6, during which it discussed the 
MBTA Communities Act, priorities for the Board, a financial plan for the Town, repairs to 
private roads and the creation of a Sustainability Committee. The Board then held a 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2024. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
“Roundtable” meeting on February 8, during which it discussed contemporary events and recent 
activities of the Board. 
 
The Board approved the February 6 minutes during a meeting held on March 12. The 
Board approved the February 8 minutes during a meeting held on April 9.  
 
DISCUSSION  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made, and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Minutes of all open sessions must be 
created and approved in a “timely manner.” See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). “Timely manner” means 
“within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the 
public body can show good cause for further delay.” 940 CMR 29.11 (2). Whenever possible, we 
recommend that the minutes be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2019-20.2 
 
The complainant alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law where it did not 
approve minutes of two meetings in a timely manner. The Board acknowledges, and we agree, 
that the February 6 minutes were not approved within the timeline required by the Open Meeting 
Law. Here, the Board approved the February 6 minutes during a meeting held on March 12, 
which was the seventh meeting and 35 days thereafter. We also find that the Board did not 
approve the February 8 minutes in a timely manner where the minutes were approved during a 
meeting held on April 9, which was the tenth meeting and 61 days thereafter. Although the 
Board explains that it has a “longstanding practice to not vote on any agenda items during 
workshop and roundtable meetings,” the Open Meeting Law does not distinguish between 
“regular” meetings and other types of meetings such as workshops or public hearings; minutes 
must be created for all meetings and approved in a timely manner. See OML 2017-103 (public 
body should have created complete minutes for its “workshop” meetings because topics 
discussed were matters within the public body’s jurisdiction); OML 2019-115 (no exception for 
“single topic” meetings or meetings not “normally scheduled”). Therefore, because the Board did 
not approve the minutes of both the February 6 and February 8 meetings within the next three 
meetings or 30 days, we find that it violated the Open Meeting Law.  
 
CONCLUSION  
   
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
fai
ling to approve meeting minutes in a timely manner. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.      
   
Sincerely,   
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne  
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government 
 
  
Assisted by Andrea Royo, Legal Intern  
   
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via email: )  
 Shrewsbury Select Board (via email: selectboard@shrewsburyma.gov)  
 Shrewsbury Town Clerk (via email: sthomas@shrewsburyma.gov) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
