===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www. mass .go v/ago 
August 14, 2015 
OML 2015-117 
Charles Boddy, Esq. 
City Attorney 
City of Lawrence 
200 Common Street 
Room 306 
Lawrence, MA 01840 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Boddy: 
This office received a complaint from Kathleen Runge, dated April 9, alleging that the 
Lawrence City Council (the "Council") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 
Specifically, the complaint alleges that: 1) the Council entered into executive session during its 
January 13 meeting without first taking a roll call vote; 2) the Council President failed to 
publicly announce the topics of the January 13 executive session; 3) and the notice for the 
Council's January 13 executive session failed to list the topics for the executive session with 
sufficient specificity. The complaint was originally filed with the Council on January 15. The 
Council responded by letter dated January 21. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this 
complaint. Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting in the 
ways alleged. However, we note that the Council took prompt action to address one of the 
violations during the meeting at issue. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
complaint filed with the Council, the Council's response, and the Complaint filed with our 
office. Additionally, we reviewed the notice for the Council's January 13 meeting. We also 
reviewed, in camera, the minutes of the Council's January 13 executive session meeting. 
Finally, we spoke with Ms. Runge by telephone on April 28, and with City Attorney Charles 
Boddy by telephone on June 11. 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
The notice for the Council's January 13 meeting included the following topic: 
2. Communication from Mayor, City Officials and City Attorney 
395/14 Request the Attendance of Mayor Rivera before City Council-RE: 
function, powers, authority, and duties within the scope of the Office of 
Mayor [Executive Session possible] -Charter Objection - Counc, Pres. 
Maldonado 
During the January 13 meeting. Council President Modesto Maldonado announced that 
the Council would meet in executive session to discuss pending litigation and litigation strategy. 
The Council members voted to enter into executive session unanimously by a voice vote. 
Because the Council has not publicly released the executive session minutes, we do not recount 
their content in detail here. However, we note that, during the executive session, the Council 
received recommendations from the City Attorney regarding whether the Council should proceed 
in open or executive session. The Council then proceeded to discuss litigation strategy with 
respect to those matters recommended by the City Attorney for discussion in executive session. 
In response to the complaint, the Council disclosed to the complainant eight specific litigation 
matters that it discussed in executive session. 
Following the executive session, the Council returned to open session. Upon returning to 
open session, the Council President realized that the Council had not taken a roll call vote prior 
to entering into executive session, but rather had taken a unanimous voice vote. The Council 
President then proceeded to call a roll call vote to retroactively approve entering into the 
executive session that the Council had just concluded. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Council Failed to Take a Roll Call Vote Prior to Entering into Executive Session 
during its January 13 Meeting: However the Council Took Appropriate Remedial Action 
by Taking a Public Roll Call Vote Immediately Following the Executive Session. 
A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes after 
a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session and the vote of each 
member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes. G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 21(a), (b)(2). The 
Council failed to record a roll call vote prior to entering into executive session during its January 
13 meeting. However, the Council took immediate corrective action upon returning to open 
session and recorded a roll call vote. We find that the Council acted appropriately to address its 
error. Therefore, we order no additional remedial action with respect to this violation. 
2. The Council President Failed to Publicly Announce All the Subjects of the January 13 
Executive Session Prior to the Council Entering that Executive Session. 
Before entering into executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive 
session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
2 
===PAGE 3===
the executive session was called. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). One purpose for executive session is 
to discuss "strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may 
have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair 
so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). A public body's discussions with its 
counsel do not automatically fall under this or any other purpose for holding an executive 
session. See Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Guide, March 18, 2015, at page 10. This 
purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with respect to litigation that is pending 
or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. See Perryman v. School 
Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2013-108; OML 2012-43; OML 
2012-5.3 
Generally, public bodies must identify the litigation matter or matters that they are 
discussing before entering into executive session under Purpose 3. See OML 2015-64; OML 
2015-44. A public body may withhold the identity of the litigation matter if publicly disclosing 
it would compromise the purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 3OA, § 
21(b)(3). While we generally defer to public bodies' assessment of whether the inclusion of such 
details would compromise the purpose for an executive session, a public body must be able to 
demonstrate a reasonable basis for that claim if challenged. See OML 2015-87; OML 2015-14. 
Here, the Council President stated at the time the Council voted to enter into executive 
session that the Council would meet in executive session to discuss pending litigation and 
litigation strategy. However, the Council President did not identify any of the specific litigation 
matters that the Council would be discussing. Further, the Council has not demonstrated why 
disclosing that it was discussing certain pending litigation matters would have compromised the 
executive session purpose or otherwise been detrimental to the Council's litigating position. In 
fact, the Council disclosed the specific litigation matters to the complainant in response to the 
complaint. Therefore, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
state all subjects that could have been revealed without compromising the purpose for which the 
January 13 executive session was called. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). 
3. The Notice for the Council's January 13 Executive Session Failed to List the Anticipated 
Topics of Discussion with Sufficient Specificity. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that the notice for each meeting include "a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). The topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to 
be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). The notice must also include those subjects 
the chair anticipates will be discussed in executive session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b); 21(b)(3). 
Here, the notice failed to identify the executive session purpose or the specific litigation 
matters that the Council President anticipated discussing. The actual language in the notice 
made no reference to litigation and suggested instead that the Council would be discussing topics 
not appropriate for executive session, such as the "function, powers, authority, and duties within 
the scope of the Office of Mayor." As with the verbal statement made by the Chair prior to 
' Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/opemneeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
entering into executive session, the Council was also unable to demonstrate why disclosing in its 
meeting notice that it would discuss certain pending litigation matters would have compromised 
the executive session purpose or otherwise been detrimental to the Council's litigating position. 
Therefore, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to disclose in the 
meeting notice for the January 13 meeting all executive session subjects that could have been 
revealed without compromising the purpose for which the January 13 executive session was 
called. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by failing take a roll call vote 
prior to entering into its January 13 executive session, by failing to publicly state the subjects of 
its January 13 executive session, and by failing to include sufficient detail about the executive 
session topic in the notice for its January 13 meeting. We find that the Council took appropriate 
remedial action with respect to the roll call vote by taking the roll call vote immediately after the 
executive session. With respect to the other two violations, we order the Council's immediate 
and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Council that a similar future 
violation may be considered evidence of an intentional violation of the law. 
Because the Council's January 13 executive session was not held in compliance with 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21, the Council may not continue to withhold the minutes of its executive session 
under the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(f) (minutes of an executive session may be 
withheld from disclosure to the public as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of 
an executive session, provided that the executive session was held in compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law); OML 2014-42; OML 2014-30; OML 2014-17. The Council may continue to 
withhold these minutes in whole or in part under any applicable exemptions to the Public 
Records Law or the attorney/client privilege. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve 
any other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Council. Please feel free to 
contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
^ Jonathan Sclarsic 
' Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Lawrence City Council 
Kathleen Runge 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. BOA, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 