===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
March 5, 2024  
  
OML 2024 – 37 
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
Michael A. Bergeron, Esq. 
Reservitz Bergeron & Associates 
25 Rockwood Road, 2
nd Floor 
Marshfield, MA 02050 
 
michael@rblawma.com 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Attorney Bergeron:  
 
This office received a complaint from Attorney Margaret Sheehan on behalf of 
Community Land and Water Coalition / Save the Pine Barrens on October 5, 2023, alleging that 
the Plymouth Selectboard (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint originally was filed with the Board on May 15.1  You responded on behalf of the 
Board by letter dated October 16.  The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law when it met in executive session under Purpose 6 on April 18 without having a 
negotiating position to protect; and when it failed to create and approve minutes of the April 18 
meeting “in a timely manner.”  
 
We appr
eciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law, as alleged.  In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the 
complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed the notice and minutes of the open 
session and executive session of the April 18 meeting. 
 
FACTS 
 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to take place on April 18 that included, among 
several other topics, the following statement: 
 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2023.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Select Board will hold an Executive Session pursuant to Massachusetts General 
Laws, Chapter 30A, Section 21(a), clause 6, to consider the purchase, exchange, lease or 
value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the negotiating position of the public body and the chair so declares.  
158 Center Hill Rd. 
 
As of the date of the Board’s response, October 16, minutes of the executive session had 
been released to the public, and minutes of the open session had been created and approved.  The 
minutes of the executive session note: “At request of Select Board, Attorney Bergeron, in-house 
counsel for Plymouth reports back as to whether lessee is presently in default of lease at 158 
Center Hill Road.”  The question of default arose out of the alleged impermissible sublease of 
the subject property to the complainant.  The Board discussed the rights of the town, in light of 
the possible default, and voted to send a letter to the lessee regarding the alleged impermissible 
sublease.   
 
DISCUSSION 
   
I. The Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it invoked Purpose 6 to 
convene in executive session on April 18. 
 
All meetings of a public body must be conducted in an open session unless a closed-door 
executive session is convened for one of ten permissible purposes.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  
When meeting in executive session, a public body may only address subjects related to the 
narrow executive session purpose the public body cited when entering executive session.  See 
Dist. Att’y for N.W. Dist. v. Selectmen of Sunderland, 11 Mass. App. Ct. 663, 666 (1981).  
Pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, a public body may meet in executive session “6. To consider 
the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting 
may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body;” (“Purpose 6”).  
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a).   
 
Executive session purposes are narrowly construed.  The public body bears the burden of 
demonstrating applicability of the claimed executive session purpose.  See District Attorney for 
the N. Dist. v. School Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 566 (2009).  Discussions under 
Purpose 6 must relate directly to the purchase, lease, exchange, or value of real property where 
confidentiality is necessary to protect a public body's negotiating position.  See OML 2022-119; 
OML 2021-62.2  The proper application of Purpose 6 is to protect a public body’s negotiating 
position vis-a-vis other parties to a transaction, not to escape the inconvenience of public 
scrutiny or opposition.  See OML 2023-241; OML 2023-81.  General discussions regarding real 
property or the use of real property, where there is no negotiating position to protect, do not fall 
within Purpose 6.  See OML 2023-81; OML 2021-103; OML 2016-93; OML 2012-98 
(“Potential uses for land and whether or not to go ahead with a project are not proper discussions 
under Purpose 6.”).  Similarly, discussions regarding the imposition of conservation restrictions, 
where there is no negotiating position to protect and the discussion does not relate to the 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website,  https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
purchase, exchange, lease or value of property, do not fall within the executive session purpose.  
See OML 2019-59.   
 
Although public bodies may not invoke Purpose 6 to engage in general discussions 
rega
rding the use of property, we have found that meeting in executive session under Purpose 6 
may be permissible in the absence of contemporaneous negotiations seeking to consummate a 
specific transaction.  For example, it was permissible to meet in executive session under Purpose 
6 to identify potential entities to approach regarding the purchase or exchange of real property.  
See OML 2022-119.  See also OML 2018-73 (finding no violation where public body discussed 
potential acquisition of alternate elementary school sites in executive session under Purpose 6). 
 
Her
e, the Board did not engage in a general discussion of property usage during the 
executive session it convened on April 18.  Rather, the Board and its counsel discussed recently 
acquired information regarding the sublease of property in which the Town had an interest.  They 
discussed the implications of the sublease, including possible default by the lessee.  Even if the 
term of the lease ran to June 30, 2024, as the complainant alleges, the newly learned information 
regarding a sublease raised the possibility of default, which might have accelerated the 
termination of the lease.  That the Board voted during the meeting to send a letter to the lessee 
suggests that the Board used the meeting to formulate and articulate its position relative to the 
lease.  An executive session under Purpose 6 was appropriate under the circumstances.  For the 
above reasons, we find that the Board did not act in violation of the Open Meeting Law when it 
convened pursuant to Purpose 6 to discuss the lease of 158 Center Hill Road.  
 
II. The Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by not having reviewed minutes 
of the April 18 executive session prior to the filing of the May 15 complaint. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minute
s of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The Law further states that “[m]inutes 
of all open sessions shall be created and approved in a timely manner,” while requiring that 
minutes of executive sessions be “review[ed]” “at reasonable intervals” to determine whether 
continued nondisclosure is warranted.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1).  Although 
“reasonable interval” is not defined by the Law, our office has found a quarterly review or a 
review every six months to be appropriate.  See OML 2020-101; OML 2019-45; OML 2017-104.  
Furthermore, the Open Meeting Law requires that: 
 
Upon re
quest by any person to inspect or copy the minutes of an executive session 
or any portion thereof, the body shall respond to the request within 10 days 
following receipt and shall release any such minutes not covered by an exemption 
under subsection (f); provided, however, that if the body has not performed a 
review pursuant to paragraph (1), the public body shall perform the review and 
release the nonexempt minutes, or any portion thereof, not later than the body’s 
next meeting or 30 days, whichever first occurs. A public body shall not assess a 
fee for the time spent in its review. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). 
 
We have previously advised public bodies that they must create and approve both open 
and executive session minutes in a timely manner and that approval of executive session minutes 
is a separate and unrelated obligation from the requirement that executive session minutes be 
periodically reviewed to determine whether the minutes should be released to the public.  See 
940 CMR 29.11(2) (requiring that minutes of  “all open and executive sessions shall be created 
and approved in a timely manner,” and that “timely manner” means “within the next three public 
body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause 
for further delay.”)  See, also, e.g., OML 2021-169; OML 2019-115.  However, the Bristol 
Superior Court recently declared that the Open Meeting Law does not require executive session 
minutes to be approved in a timely manner and that the Open Meeting Law regulation, 940 CMR 
29.11(2), “imposes additional requirements on the maintenance of executive session minutes that 
cannot be read in harmony with the statute and thus is invalid.”  See Swansea Board of 
Selectmen v. Attorney General, Civil Action No. 2173CV00906 (Bristol Sup. Ct. December 27, 
2023).  Therefore, we do not require that a public body approve executive session minutes within 
three meetings or 30 days.  Instead, executive session minutes must be “review[ed]” “at 
reasonable intervals” to determine whether continued nondisclosure is warranted, or reviewed no 
later than the public body’s next meeting or 30 days, whichever is sooner, upon receipt of a 
request for the minutes.  See OML 2024-29; G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1) and (2). 
 
The complainant alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it failed to 
“create, review and approve minutes of the 4/18/23 meeting in a timely manner, considered to be 
within 30 days or three meetings whichever is later.”  The complainant clarified that the 
complaint concerns the minutes of the April 18 executive session only.3   
 
As noted above, minutes of the executive session held on April 18 were not required to 
be approved in a “timely manner,” as the approval of executive session minutes is not governed 
by G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  Still, minutes of executive sessions must be “review[ed]” “at reasonable 
intervals” to determine whether continued nondisclosure is warranted.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1).  Where we have generally deemed a period of three to six months as a 
“reasonable interval” for purposes of the Open Meeting Law, the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law when, as of May 15, it had not yet reviewed the April 18 executive session 
minutes.  Furthermore, there is no allegation that the complainant requested the minutes, which 
would have obligated the Board to review the minutes sooner.   
 
 Where we find no violation, we do not address the complainant’s allegation that the 
Board’s violations were intentional.  In her request for review, the complainant alleges that the 
Board did not review this complaint in conformance with the Open Meeting Law.  Potential 
violations discovered after a complaint has been filed with a public body should be alleged in a 
subsequent complaint filed with that body.  This allows the public body an opportunity to 
investigate and take appropriate remedial action with regard to the additional allegations. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3).  An allegation that a complaint was not reviewed in 
conformance with the Open Meeting Law must be raised in a separate, subsequent complaint.  
 
3 The complaint is silent as to whether this allegation concerns minutes of the executive session, the open session or 
both.  The complainant’s request for review limits this allegation to the executive session minutes .   
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
See OML Declination 5-23-20 (Uxbridge Board of Selectmen).  Therefore, we decline to review 
the allegation that this complaint was not reviewed in conformance with the Open Meeting Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincer
ely,  
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
 
cc: Community Land & Water Coalition/Save the Pine Barrens (via email: 
)  
 Plymouth Town Ma nager (via email: dbrindisi@plymouth-ma.gov) 
  Plymouth Town Clerk (via e- mail: kmc elreath@plymouth-ma.gov) 
Plymouth Select Board (via email: selectmen@plymouth-ma.gov) 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
 
 
 
