===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 29, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 175 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Amy L. Bess, Esq. 
VedderPrice 
Counsel to Roxbury Preparatory Charter School  
   
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Bess: 
 
This office received a complaint filed by Athena Yerganian on behalf of the Bellevue Hill 
Improvement Association, Inc. (the “Complainant”) on April 5, 2021, alleging that the Roxbury 
Preparatory Charter School Board of Trustees (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on January 14, 2021. 
After an extension of time granted by this office, you responded on behalf of the Board by letter 
dated February 24, 2021. We understand the complaint to allege that on twelve occasions from 
November of 2018 through December of 2020 the Board 1) failed to include sufficiently specific 
executive session topics on its meeting notices; 2) failed to follow proper procedures before 
convening in executive session; and 3) met in executive session without a proper purpose.1 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing topics in executive 
session that were not appropriate for executive session. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, 
notices for the twelve meetings at issue, as well as open session minutes for all twelve meetings 
 
1 The request for further review raises additional allegations which we decline to review because they were not 
raised in an original complaint filed with the Board. See OML 2013-147; OML 2014-81. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
and executive session minutes for eleven of the twelve meetings.2 We also communicated with 
Counsel for the Board.3 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The complaint relates to twelve Board meetings held 
on the following dates: November 26 of 2018; January 31, March 28, May 30, September 25, 
and November 21 of 2019; and January 30, March 26, June 25, August 20, September 23, and 
December 3 of 2020.  
 
The Board posts its meeting notices to https://roxburyprep.uncommonschools.org/board-
of-trustees/.4 For each of the twelve meetings at issue here, the notice included one or more 
executive session topics. The executive session topics included, for example, “executive 
session,” with no further detail provided; “Executive Session: HS Facility Update;” “HS Facility 
Executive Session;” and “MOU Discussion.”  
 
Because the Board has not fully released the executive session minutes, we do not 
recount their full detail here, but note that over the course of the twelve executive sessions the 
Board discussed many topics. The main thrust of several of the executive sessions related to 
issues surrounding the process of gaining approval from the Boston Planning and Development 
Agency for a new high school facility to be built at 361 Belgrade Avenue in the Roslindale 
neighborhood of Boston, as well as political and public support for and opposition to the project. 
The Board also discussed a memorandum of understanding it was negotiating with Uncommon 
Schools, Inc., a nonprofit organization that manages public charter schools; the creation of 
subcommittees; allegations raised against a school employee; and potential alternative locations 
for the new high school facility.  
 
After years of trying to gain approval to build a new high school at 361 Belgrade Avenue, 
the Board decided to pursue other locations. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Complaint Was Untimely Filed as to Certain Allegations, and We Therefore 
Decline to Review Them.  
 
To be considered timely, a written Open Meeting Law complaint setting forth the 
circumstances which constitute the alleged violation must be filed with the public body within 30 
days of the date of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged violation could not 
 
2 The Board was unable to locate the minutes for its November 26, 2018, executive session. We remind the Board 
that the Open Meeting Law imposes a continuing obligation to maintain minutes of all meetings. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(a); OML 2018-115. If the Board is unable to locate the minutes of its November 26, 2018, executive session 
meeting, it should create minutes for that meeting to the best of its ability, through whatever means are available, 
including the memories and individual notations of the attendees. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
4 Our records show that the Board has not informed our office of its official notice posting location as required by 
940 CMR 29.03(6). Additionally, the notices we reviewed did not include the date and time they were posted as is 
required by the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations. 940 CMR 29.03(1)(d). 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed within 30 
days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 
29.05(4). When an alleged violation occurs in open session, the alleged violation can reasonably 
be discovered at the time it occurs. See OML 2014-85; OML 2012-52; OML Declination 2-1-17 
(West Bridgewater Board of Water Commissioners).5  
 
The allegation that the notices for the twelve meetings at issue failed to include 
sufficiently specific executive session topics was discoverable on the date each notice was 
posted, or, at the latest, the date of each meeting. Likewise, because the Board moved to enter 
executive session during an open session in each instance relevant here, any allegation that the 
Board failed to follow proper procedures for convening in executive session was discoverable on 
the date of each meeting. The latest meeting at issue in this compliant was held on December 3, 
2020. The complaint was not filed with the Board until January 14, 2021, more than 30 days 
after the latest of the meetings at issue. Therefore, all allegations related the Board’s meeting 
notices and convening procedures were not timely filed with the Board and we decline to review 
them.   
 
Although we decline to review these allegations, we remind the Board that executive 
session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in the announcement during 
open session prior to entering executive session, in as much detail as possible without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. See District Attorney for 
N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. Of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (“[a] precise statement of the reason 
for convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting law because that is the 
only notification given to the public that the school committee would conduct business in 
private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or 
improper.”); see also G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b), 21(b)(3); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). When noticing an 
executive session to be held pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6), a public body generally must 
identify, at a minimum, the property to be discussed if doing so would not compromise the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. See OML 2016-5; OML 2014-136; OML 
2013-97. Likewise, we remind the Board that before convening in executive session it must, in 
open session, perform the procedural steps set forth in G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b).  
 
II. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Discussing Topics in Executive 
Session That Were Not Appropriate for Executive Session.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body must be conducted in 
open session unless a closed-door executive session is convened for one of ten permissible 
purposes set forth in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). The exceptions to the 
general rule that meetings of a public body shall be open are narrowly construed. See McRea v. 
Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637, 641 (2008). The public body bears the burden of demonstrating 
applicability of the relevant exception as the reason for the executive session. See District 
Attorney for the N. Dist. v. School Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 566 (2009). When 
meeting in executive session, a public body may only address subjects that fit within one of the 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
ten enumerated purposes and relate to the narrow executive session purpose the public body 
identified when entering executive session. See OML 2020-14; OML 2011-49.  
 
One statutory purpose for convening in executive session is to “consider the purchase, 
exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) 
(“Purpose 6”). Purpose 6, narrowly construed, permits a public body to meet in executive session 
to protect its negotiating position when seeking to purchase, exchange, or lease real estate, or to 
discuss the value of real estate where it has a negotiating position relative to that property. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6); Allen v. Board of Selectmen of Belmont, 58 Mass. App. Ct. 715, 719-
721 (2003); OML 2019-143; OML 2016-50. Purpose 6 is intended to preserve confidentiality in 
negotiating the value of the property to be purchased, exchanged, or leased to avoid putting the 
public body at a disadvantage in its negotiations for the property. See Allen, 58 Mass. App. Ct. at 
720; OML 2016-50; OML 2019-10. General discussions regarding real property or the use of 
real property, where there is no negotiating position to protect, do not fall within the executive 
session purpose. See OML 2019-59; OML 2012-98 (“Potential uses for land and whether or not 
to go ahead with a project are not proper discussions under Purpose 6.”). 
 
Our in camera review of the minutes for eleven of the twelve executive sessions at issue 
reveals that on several occasions the Board discussed matters that were not appropriate for 
executive session under any of the ten purposes, and on a few occasions discussed topics that 
may have been appropriate under one of the ten executive session purposes, but that were not 
identified on the meeting notice or in the announcement prior to convening in executive session. 
For example, discussions of the development review process through the Boston Planning and 
Development Agency were not appropriate for executive session under Purpose 6, or any other 
executive session purposes, as those conversations although tangentially related to the Board’s 
consideration of purchasing or leasing certain property, did not directly relate to the purchase, 
lease, exchange, or value of real property where confidentiality was necessary to protect the 
Board’s negotiating position. Likewise, discussions of political process and strategy, creation of 
committees, student enrollment, and other topics that did not clearly fit within one of the ten 
narrow executive session topics should not have occurred in executive session. We also note that 
there is no executive session purpose for negotiations generally, but rather three narrow 
executive session purposes related to negotiations regarding real property, collective bargaining 
and litigation, and nonunion employees. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2), (3) & (6). On several 
occasions the Board discussed in executive session a memorandum of understanding it was 
negotiating with Uncommon Schools. These discussions were also improper for executive 
session. Finally, on a few occasions the Board discussed topics that may have been appropriate 
under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) or (3). However, neither the meeting notice nor the announcement 
prior to convening in executive session identified these as topics the Board would discuss in 
executive session.  
 
For the above reasons, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
improperly discussing topics in executive session on several occasions. We note that in response 
to the complaint, the Board reviewed the executive session minutes at issue and voluntarily 
released redacted versions of four sets of minutes where the Board acknowledged it had 
discussed topics not appropriate for executive session. We commend the Board for taking this 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
remedial action and for acknowledging the violation; however, we find that additional disclosure 
of executive session minutes is required. Therefore, we order the Board to release, in their 
entirety, the minutes for executive sessions held on January 31, March 28, and May 30, 2019. 
We order the Board to release, subject to appropriate redaction, the minutes for executive 
sessions held on September 25 and November 21, 2019, as well as January 30, March 26, June 
25, August 20, and September 23, 2020. Redactions may be appropriate with respect to 
discussions of the value of real property, potential alternative locations for the high school 
facility, and whether to renew a lease option. The executive session minutes for December 3, 
2020, may continue to be withheld provided that the executive session purpose remains ongoing. 
To the extent the Board is no longer considering the purchase, exchange, lease, or value of a 
particular piece of property discussed during the executive sessions at issue here, it is likely that 
the need for secrecy regarding those discussions has ceased and the minutes should not be 
withheld or redacted with respect to those discussions. See G.L c. 30A, § 22(f) (“The minutes of 
any executive session . . . may be withheld from disclosure to the public . . .  as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer; provided, 
however, that the executive session was held in compliance with section 21.”).  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing topics in executive session that were not appropriate for executive session. We order 
the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that 
similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Additionally, 
we order the Board to release the executive session minutes at issue here as described above. The 
Board must certify to our office within 30 days of the date of this letter that it has released the 
relevant executive session minutes. Finally, we order each Board member to review the Attorney 
General’s training video on executive sessions.6 The Board must certify to our office, within 60 
days of the date of this letter, that each member has viewed the training video.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
6 Training videos can be found at https://www.mass.gov/service-details/open-meeting-law-training-videos.  

===PAGE 6===
6 
 
cc: Ruven Rodriguez, Chair of the Roxbury Preparatory Charter School Board of Trustees 
(via e-mail:  
 Athena Yerganian, Bellevue Hill Improvement Association, Inc. (via email: 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
