===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 20, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 233 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Maura E. O’Keefe, Esq. 
Office of Town Counsel 
Town of Falmouth 
Maura.okeefe@falmouthma.gov 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney O’Keefe: 
 
This letter resolves a complaint filed by Ronald Beaty alleging that the Falmouth Select 
Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on March 29, 2022,
1 and you responded on behalf of the Board by 
letter dated April 28, pursuant to an extension of time granted by our office.  The complaint 
alleges that the Board’s notices for three meetings held in March included insufficient specificity 
regarding particular topics to be discussed in executive session.  The complaint also alleges that 
the Board failed to review executive session meeting minutes at reasonable intervals for possible 
public release. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, 
the Board’s response, and the complainant’s request for further review of the complaint.  We 
also reviewed the notices for the Board’s March 14, 22, and 29 meetings, and the minutes of the 
March 22 and 29 executive sessions.  In addition, we spoke by phone with the Board’s attorney
2 
regarding the nature of the executive session discussions at issue in the complaint.  
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on March 
14 which included, as a topic to be discussed in executive session, “M.G.L. c.30A s.21(a)(6) and 
s.21(a)(3) – To consider the value of Mayflower Wind Electric Cable easements and other 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 For clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
matters to be presented at the Energy Facilities Siting Board and Massachusetts Environmental 
Policy Act regulatory tribunals in connection the proposed electric transmission cable - 
Mayflower Wind.” 
 
 The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on March 22 which included, as a topic 
to be discussed in executive session, “M.G.L. c.30A s.21(a)(2) – To conduct strategy in 
preparation of contract negotiations with non-union personnel.”  The Board also posted notice 
for a meeting to be held on March 29 which included the same topic to be discussed in executive 
session, “M.G.L. c.30A s.21(a)(2) – To conduct strategy in preparation of contract negotiations 
with non-union personnel.”  We do not recount the content of these executive session discussions 
in detail; however, during both the March 22 and March 29 executive sessions, the Board 
discussed strategy with respect to negotiations with the town manager, including the possibility 
of separation.  We note that the Board subsequently voted in May to request the town manager’s 
resignation; when he did not resign, he was terminated.  After the town manager threatened 
litigation, the Board voted to rescind the termination and accept the town manager’s resignation 
and also agreed to a separation agreement.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board’s Meeting Notices Were Sufficiently Specific. 
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Notices must include a 
list of topics the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting, and those topics 
must be sufficiently specific to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed.  G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  This is true for executive session topics as well; a meeting 
notice must identify the specific purpose or purposes that the public body intends to invoke to 
justify convening in executive session and must provide as much detail as possible regarding the 
anticipated discussion without compromising the purpose for the executive session.  See OML 
2016-95. Before entering executive session, the chair must also publicly announce the purpose 
for the executive session in the same level of detail.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(b)(3); see also 
District Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. Of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (“[a] precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting 
law because that is the only notification given to the public that the school committee would 
conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so 
was proper or improper.”); OML 2015-193; OML 2016-70.3 
 
The complaint alleges that the notices for the Board’s March 14, 22, and 29 included 
insufficient specificity regarding topics to be discussed in executive session.  First, the complaint 
asserts that the notice for the Board’s March 14 meeting was insufficiently specific because it 
“included an extremely vague description of items to be discussed during said Executive Session 
by stating ‘and other matters to be presented ...’”  We disagree.  Although a topic listed only as 
“other matters to be presented” on its own may lack specificity, the complainant takes that phrase 
out of context.  The full topic as listed on the Board’s March 14 meeting notice stated that the 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Board would meet in executive session “[t]o consider the value of Mayflower Wind Electric 
Cable easements and other matters to be presented at the Energy Facilities Siting Board and 
Massachusetts Environmental Policy Act regulatory tribunals in connection the proposed electric 
transmission cable - Mayflower Wind.”  We are satisfied that this topic was listed on the meeting 
notice with sufficient specificity. 
 
Next, the complaint asserts that the notices for the Board’s March 22 and 29 meetings 
each included an insufficiently specific executive session topic where they listed the topic to be 
discussed as “[t]o conduct strategy in preparation of contract negotiations with non-union 
personnel” without identifying the non-union employee to be discussed.  One permissible reason 
to convene in executive session is to “conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations 
with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations 
with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”).  When convening in executive 
session pursuant to Purpose 2, public bodies generally should identify, both in their notice and in 
the open session announcement, the name of the specific nonunion personnel that is the subject 
of discussion under Purpose 2, unless disclosure would compromise the Board’s negotiating 
position.  See OML 2019-32; OML 2015-193; OML 2016-70.  In addition, we have identified 
instances where it was appropriate for a public body to withhold the identity of an employee out 
of concern for the individual’s privacy.  See OML 2019-85; OML 2019-37; OML 2015-180.  
Although we generally defer to a public body's assessment of whether the inclusion of details 
about the topic of an executive session would compromise the purpose for an executive session, 
a public body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for that claim if challenged.  See 
OML 2017-49; OML 2015-175; OML 2012-118. 
 
Here, as of March 22 and March 29, the Board was engaging in preliminary discussions 
regarding the potential removal of the town manager, whose contract was not set to expire until 
2024.  Notwithstanding the general presumption that a public body should identify the specific 
nonunion personnel that is the subject of discussion under Purpose 2, here we are satisfied that 
the Board has demonstrated a reasonable basis for not identifying the town manager as the 
individual under discussion at that time.  Therefore, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
 
II. The Board Reviewed Executive Session Minutes at Reasonable Intervals. 
 
Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(f).  When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and 
any documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client 
privilege or an exemption to the public records law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, 
from disclosure.  See id.  Public bodies have an obligation to review the minutes of executive 
sessions at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of minutes is warranted, 
and to announce that determination at the next meeting following its review.  See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(g)(1); OML 2015-94; OML 2013-56.  Although the Open Meeting Law does not define 
“reasonable intervals,” we have found that quarterly reviews or reviews every six months satisfy 
the law.  See OML 2022-90; OML 2017-104; OML 2015-166. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
The complaint alleges that the Board “fail[ed] to review Executive Session minutes for 
public release on a regular basis as required by the OML.”  The complaint does not identify any 
particular meeting dates or time periods for which executive session minutes allegedly were not 
reviewed.  Complainants must allege violations with a degree of specificity, as our office will not 
conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations.  See OML 2021-133; 
ML Declination 3-20-12 (Wilmington Board of Assessors).  Nonetheless, based on a cursory 
review of several sets of meeting minutes from 2021 and 2022, we find numerous instances 
where the minutes document the Board’s review and vote whether to release executive session 
meeting minutes.  Therefore, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this regard.  We 
remind the Board that the obligation to review executive session minutes for possible release is 
ongoing.  If a public body reviews executive session minutes and determines that the purpose for 
the executive session remains such that the minutes should continue to be withheld from the 
public, it must continue to review those same executive session minutes at reasonable intervals 
until it determines that the reason for secrecy has expired.  See OML 2021-110; OML 2019-133. 
 
III. We Note a Lack of Detail in the Board’s Executive Session Minutes. 
 
Finally, although not raised in the complaint, we note our concern with the lack of detail 
contained in the Board’s executive session minutes.  The Open Meeting Law requires a public 
body to “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, 
setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a).  When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for 
substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement.  See OML 2017-104; OML 2013-64.  By 
substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so 
that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred.  See OML 2019-145; OML 2012-106.  Although a 
transcript of the discussions is not required, and the minutes need not include every remark or 
opinion presented, minutes must include a substantive summary of the discussion on each topic. 
See OML 2020-18.  Minutes of executive sessions must include the same level of detail as is 
required for open sessions.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2020-53. 
 
The minutes of the Board’s March 22 and March 29 executive sessions—which were 72 
and 30 minutes in length, respectively—include little more than a statement that the Board 
engaged in discussion about specified general topics, without any summary of the actual 
discussions.  The Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes include more than a 
statement that a public body held a discussion about a specified topic; the Law requires that the 
minutes summarize the substance of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2020-53; OML 
2019-167; OML 2018-8.  Although the Board may have been concerned with the sensitive nature 
of certain matters that were discussed in executive session, creating insufficiently detailed 
meeting minutes is not a permissible solution.  Instead, a public body may redact executive 
session minutes before releasing them publicly in accordance with one or more exemptions 
under the Public Records Law.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f) (“When the purpose for which a valid 
executive session was held has been served, the minutes, preparatory materials and documents 
and exhibits of the session shall be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or 1 or more of 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
the exemptions under [the Public Records Law] apply to withhold [the] records, or any portion 
thereof, from disclosure.”).  A public body may not, however, choose to create insufficient 
meeting minutes in the first place as a means of withholding information that it believes might be 
exempt from disclosure.  See OML 2022-189.  We recommend that the Board amend the 
minutes of its March 22 and March 29 executive sessions in accordance with the guidance 
contained herein. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Nancy Taylor, Chair, Falmouth Select Board (via e-mail: nancy.taylor@falmouthma.gov) 
Ronald Beaty (via email: )  
Falmouth Town Clerk (via email: Michael.palmer@falmouthma.gov) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
