===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 28, 2016 
OML 2016-82 
Michele Randazzo, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Randazzo: 
This office received a complaint from Steven Stamm on April 19,1 alleging that the 
Burlington Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about February 
26, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated March 15. In his complaint, 
Mr. Stamm alleges that a quorum of the Board deliberated outside of a meeting. 
Additionally, Mr. Stamm alleges that the Board took action on a matter without allowing 
public comment during its February 22 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching our determination, we reviewed the initial complaint, the Board's 
response, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notice, minutes and the Town's video-recording of the Board's February 22 
meeting. Finally, we spoke with Town Administrator John Petrin and former Board Chair 
Michael Runyon. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum. Over the past year, the Town had considered whether to 
change its policy that extends health insurance coverage to elected Town officials. It was 
first brought up by then-Chair Runyon during a strategic planning session in the Spring of 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
2015. The Board discussed it again during its August 17, 2015 meeting, at which time the 
Board asked the Town Administrator to solicit opinions from the other public bodies in 
Town. In the meantime, the Town held two Town Meetings, on September 28, 2015 and 
January 25, during which the voters approved a resolution in support of discontinuing 
health insurance coverage for elected Town officials. Chair Runyon planned to bring the 
issue to conclusion during the Board's February 22 meeting. In preparation for this 
meeting, the Town Administrator distributed to the Board materials he compiled (at the 
request of Chair Runyon) on the issue, including case law, newspaper articles and all of the 
written opinions submitted to him by other Town public bodies' members, of which there 
were only three. 
Because the issue had been widely discussed by Town residents at both Town 
Meetings, for which the Board was present, Chair Runyon declined to permit public 
comment prior to the Board's vote at the February 22 meeting. Chair Runyon made a 
statement and then a motion to discontinue health insurance coverage for elected Town 
officials. No other Board member spoke on the issue. The motion was not seconded and 
therefore it failed prior to a vote. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly 
noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy 
surrounding deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. 
School Committee of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A "meeting" is defined, in 
relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or 
written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among 
a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction^]" Id. 
Additionally, the Open Meeting Law states that "no person shall address a meeting of a 
public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the 
chair, be silent." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). 
The complaint alleges that given the Board's lack of discussion and its refusal to 
allow public comment during the February 22 meeting, Board members must have 
"colluded" outside of a meeting to arrive at its decision to continue extending health 
insurance coverage for elected officials. We find no evidence that the Board deliberated 
outside of a meeting in violation of the Open Meeting Law. Instead, it appears that the 
Board's members' decision was based on the Board's prior discussion during its August 
17, 2015 meeting, along with the extensive public discussion of the issue at Town Meeting 
and the written materials submitted to the Board in preparation for the anticipated vote. 
Accordingly, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
With respect to the complaint's second allegation, the Open Meeting Law gives 
discretion to the chair of a public body to determine who may speak or otherwise 
2 
===PAGE 3===
participate at a meeting. See OML 2014-23; OML 2013-64; OML 2012-59.2 Here, the 
complaint alleges that it was improper for Chair Runyon to limit public comment during 
the Board's discussion of whether to discontinue health insurance coverage for elected 
Town officials. It is within the Chair's discretion to limit public participation during a 
meeting, and thus he did not violate the Open Meeting Law by doing so here. However, 
we encourage public bodies to allow public participation during meetings whenever 
possible. See OML 2015-12; OML 2014-129; OML 2012-59. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending 
with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Steven Stamm 
Burlington Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 