===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
May 18, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 84 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
David A. DeLuca, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
ddeluca@mhtl.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney DeLuca: 
 
This office received a complaint from Katherine Connolly on October 27, 2022,
1 alleging 
that the Holbrook Planning Board (the “Board”), and specifically its chair Christopher Golden, 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with 
the Board on August 31, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated September 22. 
The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 1) discussing a topic at 
its August 16 meeting that was not included on the meeting notice; and 2) discussing possibly 
having Board members attend private meetings with an applicant and abutters. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when, at its 
August 16 meeting, it discussed an anticipated topic that was not included on the meeting notice. 
We decline to review the second allegation. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, the notice for 
the Board’s August 16 meeting, and video recordings of the Board’s August 16 and September 
20 meetings.
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting “at least 
48 hours pr
ior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). Every notice must include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” Id. A public body 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 Video recordings of Board meetings can be found at 
http://holbrook.cablecast.tv/CablecastPublicSite/gallery/12?site=1. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not reasonably anticipated 48 
hours in advance of the meeting. See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87.3,4 If an item is reasonably 
anticipated 48 hours prior to the meeting, but has not been included on the notice, the public 
body may not discuss the topic. 
 
The com
plaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing at its 
August 16 meeting a proposed project for property located at 146 Plymouth Street without 
having included that topic on the meeting notice. The Board does not dispute this allegation, 
instead it explains “that there was a good faith mistake made by the [Chair] by seeking input 
from interested parties present on the 146 Plymouth Street matter,” and “that [the Chair] believed 
that the Plymouth Street matter was intended to be on the agenda that night, 8/16/22, and . . . 
believed that it was in fact on the agenda . . . .”  
 
A review of the video recording of the August 16 meeting reveals that the Chair was 
aware that the topic was not included on the notice for the August 16 meeting. Before inviting 
the proponents of the project at 146 Plymouth Street to update the Board, the Chair stated that 
the matter should have been included on the meeting notice but was not and therefore there 
would only be limited discussion of the topic. After this introduction the Board heard from the 
proponents of the project and members of the public. Because the topic of the project at 146 
Plymouth Street was anticipated but not included on the meeting notice, the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law by discussing the topic during its August 16 meeting. We note that the Board 
did not take any votes or make any decisions on August 16 with respect to the project, and 
further that at a Board meeting on September 20, when the topic was properly included on the 
meeting notice, the Board received an update from the proponents for the project at 146 
Plymouth Street, discussed the project, and heard from a member of the public before voting to 
continue the public hearing until October 18. 
 
Finally, we decline to review the allegation that the Board discussed possibly having 
Boar
d members attend private meetings with the proponents of the project at 146 Plymouth 
Street and abutters. Even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. See OML 2021-10; OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant 
Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). The Open Meeting Law does not govern the 
substance of a public body’s discussions, and the complaint does not allege that a quorum of the 
Board in fact attended a private meeting. Additionally, we note that during the August 16 
meeting the Chair asked that the Board be informed of the meeting between the proponents and 
abutters so that the Board could send a representative if it chose. The Open Meeting Law 
requires that all deliberations of a public body occur at a meeting for which proper notice has 
been posted and which is open to the public, unless a lawful executive session has been 
convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(a)&(b). The law defines “deliberation,” in relevant part as any 
“oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 We strongly encourage public bodies to postpone discussion of unanticipated topics not listed on the meeting 
notice until the topic may be included on a meeting notice, unless the circumstances demand immediate action by 
the public body. See OML 2013-197. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
§ 18 (emphasis added). The attendance of a single Board member at a meeting of the proponents 
and abutters would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law in any event.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it discussed an anticipated topic during its August 16 meeting without including that topic 
on the meeting notice. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law and note that future similar violations may be considered evidence of an intent to 
violate the law. Because the video recording of the August 16 meeting is publicly available and 
the Board took no votes and made no decisions regarding the project at 146 Plymouth Street 
during the August 16 meeting, and because the Board discussed the project again at a subsequent 
meeting for which proper notice was posted, we do not order additional remedial action in this 
instance. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,      
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Christopher Golden, Chair, Holbrook Planning Board ( via email: 
) 
 Deb Joyce, Planning Holbrook Board Administrative Assistant (via email: 
DJoyce@holbrookmassachusetts.us) 
Katherine Connolly (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
