===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
September 20, 2024 
 
OML 2024 – 176 
 
 
Sarah C. Spatafore, Esq. 
Murphy Hesse Toomey & Lehane  
50 Braintree Hill Office Park 
Braintree, Massachusetts 02184 
 
By email only: sspatafore@mhtl.com  
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Spatafore: 
 
 This office received a complaint from Michael Thomas on April 17, 2024, alleging that 
the Brockton School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about March 6, 
2024, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated March 27, 2024.  The 
complaint alleges that the Committee improperly discussed a matter in executive session during 
a meeting held on February 27, 2024; failed to conduct a roll call vote after the conclusion of that 
executive session; and discussed a matter in open session during the February 27, 2024, meeting 
that was not listed on the notice. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the law in the ways 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  In 
addition, we reviewed the notice and open and executive session minutes of the Committee 
meeting held on February 27, 2024, as well as a video recording of that meeting.
1  Finally, we 
spoke with you by telephone on September 6, 2024.2 
 
 
1 A recording of the Committee’s February 27, 2024, meeting is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9iLzxWrFlyo.  
2 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The complainant, Michael Thomas, was Superintendent of 
Brockton Public Schools.  Since the summer of 2023, he had been on an extended medical leave 
of absence.  At the end of August 2023, Mayor Robert Sullivan, who is also Chair of the 
Committee, announced that Brockton Public Schools had a $14 million budget deficit.  Around 
February 14, 2024, Superintendent Thomas notified the Committee that he was well enough to 
return to work. 
 
The Committee duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on February 27, 2024, at 7:00 
P.M.  The notice listed seven topics, including an executive session pursuant to Purpose 2 to 
“‘conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct 
collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel’ Superintendent, 
CFO, Deputy CFO,” and an executive session pursuant to Purpose 1 to “‘discuss the reputation, 
character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an 
individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, 
a public officer, employee, staff member or individual’ (Michael Thomas).” 
 
The February 27, 2024, meeting was held as planned with all Committee members 
present and attending the meeting in person.
3  The Committee convened in open session at 7:00 
P.M. and, for approximately 50 minutes, heard from 16 members of the public regarding the 
safety of students and teachers at Brockton High School.  The Committee received an update 
from the Police Chief about the safety and security of the school and recommendations for the 
school district to improve security. 
 
Mayor Sullivan then announced that the Committee would convene in executive session 
“to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to 
conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel’ 
Superintendent, CFO, Deputy CFO” and announced that it would reconvene in open session 
following the conclusion of the executive session.  Committee legal counsel Sarah Spatafore 
stated that the matter to be discussed in executive session under Purpose 1 would be discussed in 
open session.  The Committee unanimously voted by roll call to convene in executive session 
pursuant to Purpose 2. 
 
The Committee has not publicly released the minutes of the executive session, and 
therefore we do not recount their content in detail here.  However, we note that the Committee 
discussed contract terms and benefits for the Superintendent, Chief Financial Officer, and 
Deputy Chief Financial Officer.   
 
At the conclusion of the executive session, the Committee reconvened in open session.  
Attorney Spatafore explained to the Committee that it needed to decide whether Superintendent 
Thomas should remain out of work and, if the Committee decided that Superintendent Thomas 
 
3 The Committee is an eight-member public body.  Seven members were present and attended the February 27, 
2024, meeting in person, which was held in the theater of the Dr. William H. Arnone School in Brockton.  One 
member was absent. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
should not return to work, her recommendation was for the Committee to place Superintendent 
Thomas on paid administrative leave, which was not a disciplinary move, but rather to preserve 
the integrity of the ongoing audit and investigation into the budget shortfall.  Committee member 
Kathy Ehlers then made a motion to place Superintendent Thomas on paid administrative leave 
effective February 21, 2024, which was seconded by Committee member Judy Sullivan.  Mayor 
Sullivan then asked all in favor to raise their hands.  Prior to announcing the outcome of that 
vote, members of the public expressed their disbelief and displeasure with the actions of the 
Committee.  A Committee member then requested a roll call vote.  Mayor Sullivan took a roll 
call vote on the motion and the motion passed unanimously.   
 
The Committee then heard from Superintendent Thomas who expressed his desire to 
return to work, that it was a mistake to place him on paid administrative leave, and that the audit 
and investigation would show that any money spent went to transportation, special education and 
staffing.  Mayor Sullivan announced that an impartial and external investigation was currently 
ongoing regarding the budget deficit and that the results of that investigation would be 
publicized.  The Committee thereafter adjourned the meeting.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
beration and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  A public 
body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the 
Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is 
recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether 
the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.
4  Before entering the executive session, the chair must state 
the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 
567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary 
... because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct 
business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was 
proper or improper”).   
 
A public body may convene in executive session to “conduc
 t strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 
2”).  When meeting in executive session, a public body may only address subjects related to the 
narrow executive session purpose the public body cited when entering executive session.  See 
District Attorney for the Northwestern Dist. v. Committee of Selectmen of Sunderland, 11 Mass. 
App. Ct. 663, 666 (1981) (executive session may not be used as a blanket reason to deliberate on 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
matters other than those pertaining to the specific purpose for which executive session was 
called). 
 
The complaint challenges the propriety of the Committee’s F ebruary 27, 2024, executive 
session.  Here, the Committee convened in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2 and 
discussed contract terms and benefits for the Superintendent, Chief Financial Officer, and 
Deputy Chief Financial Officer.  After speaking with Attorney Spatafore, we are satisfied that 
the Committee’s discussions of the contracts fit within the parameters of executive session 
Purpose 2.  See OML 2013-47; OML 2011-44.  Therefore, we conclude that the Committee 
properly met in executive session and thus did not violate the Open Meeting Law.   
 
The complaint suggests that the Committee must have discussed the “potential 
discipline” of Superintendent Thomas during the executive session “based on their subsequent 
conduct and statements,” i.e. to place him on paid administrative leave.  We have stated in prior 
determinations that agreement without substantive discussion among public body members or 
even the lack of substantive discussion prior to a vote is insufficient to support the inference that 
those members deliberated.  See OML 2017-125; OML 2017-93; OML 2013-128.  We find no 
evidence that the Committee discussed the discipline or dismissal of Superintendent Thomas 
during the Purpose 2 executive session.  Instead, it appears that the Committee’s decision to 
place Superintendent Thomas on paid administrative leave was based on legal counsel’s 
recommendation. 
 
The complaint also alleges that the Committee did not allow Superintendent Thomas to 
spea
k on his behalf prior to voting to place him on paid administrative leave.  Although the 
February 27, 2024, notice listed an executive session pursuant to Purpose 1 to discuss 
Superintendent Thomas, the Committee did not convene in executive session for this purpose as 
Superintendent Thomas requested that the discussions about him take place in open session 
rather than executive session.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (when a public body plans to convene 
in executive session pursuant to Purpose 1, the individual who is the subject of discussion has 
certain rights, including the right to be present during executive session deliberations, to speak 
on their own behalf, and to request that the session be open).  It is not a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law for a public body to vote on a topic without first taking comments from the public 
or specific individuals.  See OML 2019-117; OML 2013-64; OML 2012-59; OML 2012-23.  
Moreover, an individual who would otherwise have a right to speak on his own behalf during a 
Purpose 1 executive session does not have an analogous right if the same discussion is held in 
open session.  See OML 2017-125; OML 2014-23; OML 2013-64; OML 2012-59.  The Open 
Meeting Law states that no person shall address a meeting of a public body without permission 
of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f).   
Nevertheless, the Committee allowed Superintendent Thomas to speak on his own behalf and we 
encourage public bodies to allow for as much public participation as time and circumstances 
permit.  See OML 2015-12; OML 2014-129; OML 2012-59. 
   
The complaint further alleges that a roll call vote was required to adjourn the executive 
sess
ion portion of the February 27, 2024, meeting.  A roll call vote is not required to exit 
executive session.  Cf. G.L. c. 30A, §21(b) (requiring roll call vote to enter executive session).  
Moreover, the Open Meeting Law does not require a vote to adjourn the meeting of a public 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
body.  Although a vote provides a practical way to collectively end a meeting, it is not a 
requi
rement of the Open Meeting Law.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25; see also OML 2019-7.  
Therefore, the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it exited executive 
session without any vote.  See OML 2024-9. 
 
In addition, the complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing a topic, the Superintendent, during open session that was not listed on the notice of 
the February 27, 2024, meeting.  Here, as previously explained, the discussion of Superintendent 
Thomas was initially noticed for an executive session.  Public bodies may discuss topics in open 
session that were included on the meeting notice for executive session and in fact may be forced 
to do so if the vote to enter executive session fails.  See OML 2019-150.  Notwithstanding a 
meeting notice’s inclusion of an executive session, there is never a guarantee that a public body 
will enter into executive session.  The public body must meet in open session to vote to enter into 
executive session; this vote could fail, or the public body could otherwise choose not to convene 
in executive session.  See OML 2013-856 (Board, realizing that it had posted notice for an 
improper executive session topic, chose to hold the meeting in open session).  Although a public 
body should not notice topics for executive session that it fully intends to discuss in open session 
with the intent of discouraging public attendance at meetings, we find no evidence that is what 
occurred here.  Rather, Superintendent Thomas exercised his right to have the discussions about 
him take place in open session rather than executive session.  Therefore, we find no violation of 
the Open Meeting Law where the Committee discussed a topic in an open session which was 
noticed as an executive session.  See OML 2020-104.  
 
Finally, with respect to the concern raised in the complaint that the Committee 
imprope
rly voted twice with respect to placing Superintendent Thomas on paid administrative 
leave, we do not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  After reviewing a video recording of 
the February 27, 2024, meeting, it appears that a Committee member requested a roll call vote 
prior to the announcement of the results of the first vote.  Nonetheless, the Open Meeting Law 
does not dictate the content of a discussion at a meeting and once a meeting begins, the public 
body controls its own agenda.  See OML 2023-76; OML 2022-187.   
 
Although not raised in the complaint, we note our concern with the minutes of the 
Comm
ittee’s February 27, 2024, executive session.  The Open Meeting Law requires that a 
public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, 
setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a).  The minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the 
public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of 
what occurred.  See OML 2021-128; OML 2016-105.  Although a transcript of the discussions is 
not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented, minutes 
must include a substantive summary of the discussion on each topic.  See OML 2018-8; OML 
2012-29; OML 2011-55.  
 
Bas
ed on our in camera review of the minutes of the executive session, we note that the 
minutes appear inadequate to meet the standard required by the Open Meeting Law because they 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
do not offer a sufficiently detailed summary of the Committee’s thirty-minu te discussions.  
Rather, the minutes simply state that the Committee discussed contract terms and benefits for the 
Superintendent, CFO and Deputy CFO without including any actual summary of the discussions. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes include more than a statement that a 
public body held a discussion about a specified topic; the Law requires that the minutes 
summarize the discussion that was held.  See OML 2019-167; OML 2018-8.  We recommend 
that the Committee amend its February 27, 2024, executive session meeting minutes in 
accordance with the requirements of G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).     
   
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter. 
      
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  Michael Thomas – By email only:   
Brockton School Committee c/o Mayor Robert Sullivan, Chair – By email only: 
mayorsullivan@cobma.us   
 Brockton City  Clerk – By email only: cityclerk@cobma.us  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
