===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
   
 
 
June 14, 2022 
 
OML 2022 –110 
 
 
Colleen M. Mejia 
City Solicitor 
Everett City Hall 
484 Broadway 
Everett, MA 02149 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Mejia: 
 
This office received a complaint from Joan Beckta on May 2, 2022, alleging that the 
Everett City Council Committee on Legislative Affairs and Elections (the “Committee”) violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on or about April 2, 2022.1  You responded to the complaint on behalf of the 
Committee by letter dated April 26.2  The complaint alleges that the Committee failed to provide 
timely notice when canceling its March 7 meeting and rescheduling it for March 14. 
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, the complaint 
filed with our office requesting further review, and the notice provided for the March 14 
Committee meeting.  We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the 
way alleged.     
 
Except in the case of an emergency, the Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies 
post notice of every meeting “at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, 
 
1 Unless otherwise stated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2022. 
2 We note that the Committee did not respond to the complaint in the timeframe required by the Open Meeting Law. 
We remind the Committee that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a 
complaint, the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; 
send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General 
a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).   

===PAGE 2===
   
 
2 
 
Sundays and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  “Notice shall be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and shall contain the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” Id.   
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by postponing 
its March 7 meeting with no advance notice.  On the day of the meeting, the complainant 
attempted to watch the Committee meeting on local television but was unable to locate the live 
stream of the meeting.  She thereafter contacted Everett Director of Communications Deanna 
Deveney, who notified the complainant via email that the meeting had been postponed until 
March 14, because the City Hall elevator was out of service thus making the meeting 
inaccessible.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); OML 2019-90 (for a meeting to be truly open to the 
public, it must be held at a location that is accessible to persons with disabilities).3  The Open 
Meeting Law does not impose requirements on meeting cancellations.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 
OML 2017-100.  Our office encourages public bodies to notify the public of meeting 
cancellations, though it is not required by the Open Meeting Law.  As such, we find that the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it did not post 48 hours’ notice that the 
March 7 meeting was canceled. 
 
With respect to the complainant’s concern that “agendas appear and disappear from the 
City’s website,” the complaint does not specify any specific notices that have been improperly 
posted or removed.  Complainants must allege violations with a degree of specificity, as our 
office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations.  See OML 
2014-119; OML 2012-106.  Nevertheless, as stated above, the Open Meeting Law does not 
require that a public body post notice of a meeting cancellation.  Rather, the Law requires that 
notice of every meeting be posted at least 48 hours prior to such meeting.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  
We find that the Committee properly posted notice for a meeting to be held on March 14 by 
posting such notice on the city website - the official notice posting location - on March 7, which 
was 48 hours in advance of the meeting, as required by the Open Meeting Law.  See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
Kerry Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 

===PAGE 3===
   
 
3 
 
Assisted by: Emily Johnson, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government  
 
 
cc: Joan Beckta – By email only:  
Everett City Council Committee on Legislative Affairs and Elections, c/o Chairperson 
Michael Marchese – By email only:  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
