===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON , MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
August 22, 2014 
OML 2014-104 
Robert Hanson 
Town Administrator 
Town of Ashby 
895 Main Street 
Ashby, MA 01431 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Hanson: 
This office received a complaint from Martha Svedberg (the complainant) dated 
June 19, alleging that the Ashby Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board 
on or about April 28, and you responded on behalf of the Board to the complaint by letter 
dated May 5.2 In her complaint, the complainant alleges that the Board discussed a topic 
during its March 26 meeting that was not listed on the meeting notice. In addition, the 
complainant alleges that the Board failed to notify her that it intended to discuss her 
property during the meeting. Finally, the complainant alleges that the Board improperly 
conducted a joint meeting without notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this decision, we reviewed the April 28 complaint; your May 5 response, 
on behalf of the Board; and the June 19 complaint requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notices of and minutes from the Board meetings held on March 12 and March 
26. 
' Unless otherwise specified, all dates referenced hereafter are in 2014. 
2 We remind the Board that, while a public body may authorize an individual such as the Town Administrator 
or Town Counsel to respond on the public body's behalf, the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General's 
regulations require that the public body first review the Open Meeting Law complaint. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). It appears that the Board did not review this complaint prior to the Town 
Administrator's response. 
3 For purpose of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board convened a meeting on March 26. The 
meeting notice included the topic, "Request for Selectmen's Appointment of Peter Niall as 
Building Inspector for a one-year term from April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015." This was 
the continuation of a discussion that began during the previous Board meeting, on March 
12. According to the meeting minutes, during the March 26 meeting in the context of 
discussing whether to re-appoint the Building Inspector, the Board discussed a recent court 
decision that upheld decisions made by both the Building Inspector and the Zoning Board 
of Appeals (ZBA) concerning building permits for the complainant's property. The Board 
also discussed other decisions made by the Building Inspector. Residents expressed both 
opposition and support for the Building Inspector. Following this discussion, the Board 
voted to appoint the Building Inspector for a one-year term. 
The Board then briefly discussed the "Town Common Well," a topic that was 
identified as such on the meeting notice. While the Board had previously invited the 
Board of Health to attend and participate in this discussion, the Board of Health did not 
respond to the invitation. Individual Board of Health members attended the meeting. The 
Board did allow some public comment during this topic, but a video recording does not 
demonstrate the identity of the speakers from the public 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice 48 hours in advance 
of a meeting and include, a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in 
a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to 
be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2014-47; OML 2012-34.5 We 
generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's 
discussion. See OML 2014-58; OML 2013-157. 
The complainant alleges that the discussion of a recent court decision concerning 
her property was not listed on the meeting notice, nor did the Board notify her about the 
anticipated discussion. The Board's discussion of the court decision was directly related to 
its decision whether to re-appoint the Building Inspector. Accordingly, we find that the 
topic on the March 26 meeting notice was sufficiently specific to put the public on notice 
of the Board's anticipated discussion and the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
4 We note that the minutes refer to individuals by their initials, rather than their full names. An index 
identiiying the individuals' initials would be useful so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of the identity of each speaker. See OML 
2014-79. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
See OML 2014-81. Furthermore, we find that the Board was not required to provide the 
complainant with special notice of the discussion. With the exception of certain executive 
session discussions, the Open Meeting Law does not require that public bodies provide 
notice of meetings to specific groups or individuals, such as affected property owners. See 
OML 2014-47; OML 2013-79. 
The complainant further alleges that the March 26 meeting notice failed to state 
that the Board would hold a joint meeting with the Ashby Board of Health regarding the 
"Town Common Well." A review of the video recording of the meeting demonstrates that 
no such joint meeting occurred. While some public comments occurred, the video 
recording of the meeting does not demonstrate the identity of the speakers. It is clear, 
however, that the speakers directed their comments to the Board and did not communicate 
their opinions in a manner prohibited by the Law. Therefore, we find no violation of the 
Open Meeting Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending 
with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions. 
cc: Martha Svedberg 
Ashby Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely. 
Mark M. Higgins 
Assistant Attorney General L 
Division of Open Government 
3 