===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
March 13, 2020 
OML 2020-36
Scott Joseph Graves, Esq. 
President, Gardner City Council 
95 Pleasant Street 
Room 121 
Gardner, MA 01440
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Graves:
This office received two complaints from Paul DeMeo on October 101, alleging that the 
Gardner City Council (the “Council”) and City Councilor Christine Johnson2 violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Council on 
or about September 5 and 6. You responded on behalf of the Council on October 22.3 In his 
complaints, Mr. DeMeo alleges that the Council deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting 
via email on two occasions,4 and that Councilor Johnson retaliated against him for filing an Open 
Meeting Law complaint by making offensive and harassing comments on Facebook.5
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law when 
Councilor Johnson copied the entirety of the Council on an email response dated September 4. In
1 All dates are in 2019, unless otherwise stated.
2 We understand that Ms. Johnson is no longer a member of the Council.
3 We note that the Council’s response was not timely. Our office granted the Council an extension of time until 
October 10 to respond to the complaint. We remind the Council of its obligation under the Open Meeting Law to 
review and respond to Open Meeting Law complaints within fourteen business days, or, if an extension has been 
granted, by the date allowed for by our office. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).
4 The September 5 complaint relates to, in part, an email response that Councilor Johnson sent to the Complainant 
on which Councilor Johnson copied the entirety of the Council as well as several other officials and individuals.
That email was sent on August 1, more than thirty days prior to the filing of the September 5 complaint. Because the 
September 5 complaint, as it relates to the August 1 email, was not timely filed with the Council, we decline to 
review the allegation relating to the August 1 email. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4).
5 An allegation of unprofessional conduct or incivility towards a member of the public does not constitute a violation 
of the Open Meeting Law. Thus, we decline to review the allegations regarding Councilor Johnson’s Lacebook 
remarks. See OML 2019-166; OML Declination 6-28-16 (Kingston Board of Selectmen).
o
1

===PAGE 2===
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaints, including 
the evidence attached thereto; the Council’s response; minutes of the Council’s September 3 
meeting; and the City’s municipal website. We also communicated with the Complainant by 
email.
FACTS
On September 3, the Complainant addressed an email to the Mayor of Gardner, Mark 
Hawke, regarding, among other things, the Complainant’s concerns about pay inequity in the 
City of Gardner and a Council vote that day to order the first printing of an ordinance that would 
reduce the salary of the newly appointed City Treasurer/Collector. Also copied on the 
Complainant’s email were all eleven members of the Council, including Councilor Johnson, the 
newly appointed City Treasurer/Collector, other government officials, several news outlets, and 
various individuals. On September 4, Councilor Johnson responded to the Complainant’s email, 
copying all recipients included on the Complainant’s original email, including the other ten 
Council members. In her response, Councilor Johnson, among other things, defended the 
Council’s vote to reduce the City Treasurer/Collector’s salary and stated that inaccurate 
information had been provided at the Council’s September 3 meeting. At the time of the email 
exchange, the City Treasurer/Collector’s proposed salary was still on the Council’s agenda for a 
future vote.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass, 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A,
§§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body 
with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. The law defines 
“deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; 
provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, 
scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of 
reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member 
is expressed.” Id. A one-way communication from one public body member to a quorum of 
public body members on business within a body's jurisdiction is deliberation, even if no other 
members respond. See OML 2015-33.6 For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is “a 
simple majority of the members of the public body.” G.L. c 30A, § 18.
Here, we find that Councilor Johnson engaged in impermissible deliberation outside of a 
public meeting when she copied the entire Council on her September 4 email expressing her 
thoughts and opinions on a matter within the Council’s jurisdiction. The Council argues that 
Councilor Johnson’s email could be construed as “administrative communication” because “the 
gravamen and substantial gist of [her] email comments merely reiterated what she stated at the
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
public City Council Meeting of Sept. 3 ..This argument is unavailing.7 First, Councilor 
Johnson’s email was not a mere reiteration of statements she had made at the September 3 
meeting. While it is clear from the September 4 email that Councilor Johnson had not changed 
her mind regarding the Council’s vote in the intervening day, her email addressed topics and 
included comments not previously addressed or made by Councilor Johnson. For example, in the 
September 4 email Councilor Johnson expressed her belief that the Complainant had a grudge 
against the Mayor, and her belief that the Mayor was upset by comments made at the September 
3 meeting. Second, even if Councilor Johnson’s email had only restated points she had made at 
the September 3 meeting, the September 4 email would still not be considered an “administrative 
communication.” We construe the administrative exclusion from the definition of deliberation 
narrowly. See OML 2019-78; OML 2020-15. Here, where the communication served no 
administrative purpose (such as scheduling a meeting or distributing a report), but rather 
consisted entirely of a Council member’s thoughts and opinions regarding a matter before the 
Council, the communication did not fall within the administrative exclusion. Therefore, we find 
that the Council deliberated outside of a properly noticed meeting via email on September 4 in 
violation of the Open Meeting Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
improperly deliberating via email on September 4. We order immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar violations in the future may be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the Law. 940 CMR 29.02. We also order that the Council release the 
September 4 email referenced in this letter to the public within 30 days following its receipt of 
this determination.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Council. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.
Sincer
hzabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
7 In making this argument, the Council relies heavily on an earlier determination issued by this office, OML 2013- 
130. Reliance on this determination is flawed in two manners. First, OML 2013-130 is not analogous to the facts 
presented here. The Council appears to rely on the portion of OML 2013-130 in which we found no violation when 
the Chair of a public body emailed a quorum of the public body the prepared written remarks he had already 
presented during an earlier open meeting. That is not what happened in this case. Here, Councilor Johnson engaged 
in a fresh debate with the Complainant, expressing her thoughts and opinions regarding pay inequity in the City of 
Gardner and the Council’s vote to reduce the salary of the newly appointed City Treasurer/Collector. Second, our 
office has refined its guidance on some of the issues presented in OML 2013-130 in light of the Supreme Judicial 
Court’s decision in Boelter v. Wavland Board of Selectmen. 479 Mass. 233 (2018), which held that public body 
members may not communicate opinions to each other outside of a noticed meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; AGO 
FAQ on Deliberation and Electronic Communication.
3

===PAGE 4===
cc: John Flick, Esq. 
Gardner City Council 
Paul DeMeo
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
4
