===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 9,2014 
OML 2014-79 
Mark Andrews 
Town Administrator 
Town of Wenham 
138 Main Street 
PO Box 576 
Wenham, MA 01984 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Andrews: 
This office received a complaint from Michelle Bailey on December 30, 2013, 
alleging that the Joint Subcommittee on Inter-Municipal Agreements and the Wenham Board 
of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about October 30, 2013, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated November 12, 2013.1 In her complaint, Ms. 
Bailey alleges that, based on a discussion during the Board's meeting held on October 1, 
2013, it appears that a subcommittee was formed and met to discuss inter-municipal 
agreements without following the Open Meeting Law.2 In addition, Ms. Bailey alleges that 
the Board failed to respond to her request for executive session minutes in a timely manner 
and failed to conduct a review of these executive session minutes as required. 
We reviewed the October 30, 2013 complaint; your November 12, 2013 response, on 
behalf of the Board;3 and the December 30, 2013 request for further review filed with our 
office. We also reviewed the notice for and minutes from the joint meetings of the Wenham 
and Hamilton Finance Advisory Committees held on July 31, 2013 and September 25, 2013, 
as well as the recording from the July 31, 2013 meeting. In addition, we reviewed the notice 
for and open and executive session minutes from the Board's meeting held on September 3, 
1 We remind the Board that, while a public body may authorize an individual such as the Town Administrator or 
Town Counsel to respond on the public body's behalf, the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General's 
regulations require that the entire Board first review the Open Meeting Law complaint. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(b); 940 CMR 29,05(5). The Board did not review this complaint prior to your response, 
2 Ms. Bailey alleges that, in the alternative, the Board improperly discussed the inter-municipal agreements 
outside of a meeting or during its September 3, 2013 executive session, 
3 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
2013, along with the minutes from the Board meetings held on August 20, 2013; September 
17, 2013; and October 1, 2013. We spoke by telephone with former Board Chair Kenneth 
Whittaker, Wenham Finance Committee Chair Michael Lucy, Wenham Town Administrator 
Mark Andrews, and Hamilton Town Manager Michael Lombardo. Finally, we reviewed Ms. 
Bailey's request for minutes and the Board's response. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to promptly provide executive session minutes that were released in response to a 
request. However, we find that the group referred to by the complainant as the Joint 
Subcommittee on Inter-Municipal Agreements was not a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law and that, therefore, it did not violate the Law by deliberating outside of a 
properly posted meeting. Additionally, we find that the Board did not violate the Law in the 
other ways alleged. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body; therefore, two 
members constitute a quorum. The Wenham Finance Committee is a six member public 
body; therefore four members constitute a quorum. The complainant alleges two separate 
violations, which we address in turn. 
I. Inter-Municipal Agreement Discussion 
The complainant alleges that a subcommittee which she labeled the "Joint 
Subcommittee on Inter-Municipal Agreements (AKA IMA Review Committee)," consisting 
of Board Chair Kenneth Whittaker, Wenham Finance Committee Chair Michael Lucy, 
Wenham Town Administrator Mark Andrews, as well as Hamilton Town Manager Michael 
Lombardo, Hamilton Board of Selectmen Chair Mark Johnson and Hamilton Finance 
Committee Chair John McWane, conducted deliberations outside of a properly posted 
meeting. On July 31, 2013, the Finance Committees of Hamilton and Wenham convened a 
joint meeting to discuss, in part, the possible review and revision of various inter-municipal 
agreements (IMAs) between the two towns.4 The meeting notice listed the following topic: 
"6) Inter-Municipal Agreements (IMA) Review Process: Formation of Joint Sub-Committee 
on Inter-Municipal Agreements to review, update and upgrade all HW [IMAs]; Suggested 
composition: Chair of each Board of Selectmen; Chair of each FinCom; Hamilton Town 
Manager; Wenham Town Administrator and each Town Counsel (Advisory)." According to 
the minutes, during the July 31, 2013 meeting Mr. Lucy noted that many of the IMAs were 
"aging" and should be reviewed and "suggested a joint ad hoc subcommittee be made up of 
designees from BOS, FinCom, Town Counsels, to review the existing IMAs by November if 
possible." He said, "by consensus, is everyone on board?" to which there was no formal 
response by the group. The towns have not conducted this broad review of the IMAs in the 
time since this meeting. 
4 Mr. Whittaker and Mr. Johnson were present, but did not participate during the meeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Realizing the larger review of the IMAs would take time, the Hamilton Town 
Manager expressed concern that one of the IMAs concerning administrative fees paid to 
Wenham for running the library was outdated and needed immediate attention. As a result, 
Hamilton refused to continue paying the library fees until the towns could reach an 
agreement. During the Board's August 20, 2013 meeting, Mr. Whittaker announced that town 
representatives were meeting to review and update the IMAs. In particular, he stated that 
"there is a difference of opinion regarding the payments of the library and COA van fees from 
Hamilton to Wenham," which "continues to be discussed." On September 3, 2013, the Board 
convened in executive session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(3) to discuss litigation strategy 
concerning Hamilton's refusal to pay the library fees. 
In the meantime, Mr. Lombardo expressed to Mr. Andrews that Hamilton would like 
to discuss the library fees immediately. Mr. Lombardo and Mr. Andrews scheduled a meeting 
for September 10, 2013. Along with Mr. Lombardo and Mr. Andrews, the chairs of the 
towns' respective Boards of Selectmen and Finance Committees- Mr. Whittaker, Mr. Lucy, 
Mr. Johnson, and Mr. McWane- attended the meeting. No public notice was posted for this 
meeting, and it was not conducted as an open meeting. The group came up with a draft 
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) regarding a reduction in the library fees, which was 
presented to and executed by the finance committees at their joint meeting held on September 
25, 2013. The MOU was then reported to the Board at its October 1, 2013 meeting. 
II. Request for Executive Session Meeting Minutes 
The complainant alleges that the Board failed to timely respond to her request for its 
September 3, 2013 executive session minutes. On October 6, 2013, the complainant sent Mr. 
Andrews an email requesting a copy of the Board's September 3, 2013 executive session 
minutes. Mr. Andrews acknowledged receipt of the request on October 7, 2013 and updated 
her by email on October 11, 2013. That same day, Mr. Whittaker emailed the complainant to 
explain that he was responsible for the Board's delay in responding to her request because he 
was out of state until October 21, 2013. In response, the complainant agreed to an extension 
of time to respond to her request until October 23, 2013. During its October 22, 2013 
meeting, the Board approved and released the September 3, 2013 executive session minutes. 
The Board then revised the minutes during its October 30, 2013 meeting to purportedly clarify 
the nature of the discussion, although the Board voted to condense the summary of the 45-
minute discussion from one paragraph to one sentence.5 On October 31, 2013, Mr. Andrews' 
office provided the complainant with a copy of the September 3, 2013 executive session 
minutes that were released on October 22, 2013. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
5 We remind the Board that while meeting minutes (for both open and executive sessions) do not have to be a 
transcript, they should include sufficient detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend 
the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what actually occurred. See OML 2013-14, 
3 
===PAGE 4===
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that all meetings of a public body 
be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction^]" 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "public body" subject to the Open Meeting Law is any "multiple-
member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative 
branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed 
or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose." Id. The Law defines 
"deliberation," in part, as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within 
its jurisdiction." Id. 
I. Inter-Municipal Agreement Discussion 
The Hamilton Town Manager and the Wenham Town Administrator organized a 
meeting on September 10, 2013 to discuss the specific question of library fees, a topic of 
immediate concern for the towns. Along with the Hamilton Town Manager and Wenham 
Town Administrator, this meeting, which was not posted or otherwise treated as a "meeting" 
under the Open Meeting Law, involved the chairs of the towns' Boards of Selectmen and 
Finance Committees. The discussion was not about the larger IMA review process discussed 
during the joint finance committee meeting on July 31, 2013. Further, we note that even if the 
topic of discussion at this meeting had been identical to that contemplated by the finance 
committees, no vote was taken during their July 31, 2013 joint meeting to create such a body 
or officially delegate this task. We therefore find that the group that met on September 10, 
2014 was not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, and did not need to comply 
with its requirements. Furthermore, because this meeting did not involve a quorum of the 
Board (or any other public body), there was no improper deliberation by that body under the 
Open Meeting Law. 
II. Request for Executive Session Meeting Minutes 
Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure as long as publication 
may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
A public body must periodically review executive session minutes to determine if non-
disclosure continues to be warranted. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). If a public body receives a 
request for executive session minutes, it must respond to the request within 10 days. G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(g)(2). If the public body has not yet performed a review of its minutes, it must 
perfonn the review and release the non-exempt minutes, or any portion thereof not later than 
the public body's next meeting or 30 days, whichever first occurs. Id. 
Here, the Board acknowledged the request for executive session minutes within 10 
days. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2); OML 2013-99. While the Board did not undertake the 
required review of the requested minutes before its next meeting, held on October 15, 2013, 
the complainant had agreed to an extension so that Mr. Whittaker could participate in the 
Board's discussion at its October 22, 2013 meeting. On that date, the Board performed its 
4 
===PAGE 5===
review and ultimately decided to release the September 3, 2013 executive session minutes. 
Thus, we find that the Board properly undertook a review of its executive session minutes 
within the requisite time period. Id. at § 22(g)(2). However, the Board should have provided 
the complainant with the released minutes as soon as possible after this meeting, rather than 
waiting until October 31, 2013. Id. (a public body shall "release the non-exempt minutes, or 
any portion thereof, not later than the public body's next meeting or 30 days, whichever first 
occurs"). We therefore find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in this regard. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to promptly provide executive session minutes that were released in response to a 
request. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution 
that future similar conduct may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Michelle Bailey 
Wenham Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
5 