===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
March 1, 2021 
   
       OML 2021 – 23  
 
 
Stephen Bannon 
Chair, Select Board 
Town Hall 
334 Main Street 
Great Barrington, MA 01230 
 
By email only:  
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Mr. Bannon: 
This office received a complaint from Holly Hardman on April 8, 2020, and a complaint 
from Susan Jennings on May 4, 2020, alleging that the Great Barrington Select Board (the 
“Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  Ms. Hardman’s complaint 
was originally filed with the Board on March 1, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of 
the Board, by letter dated March 9.  Ms. Jennings’ complaint was originally filed with the Board 
on March 9, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated March 
23.  Both complaints allege that the Board improperly met in executive session between 
February 1 and February 10.2 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged.  At the 
outset, it is important to note that this decision is the result of an investigation solely into whether 
the Board violated the Open Meeting Law, and has no bearing on the merits of the Housatonic 
Rest of River Settlement Agreement or whether it is good policy, issues which underlie the 
complaints. 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 
2 Ms. Hardman’s complaint also alleges that the Board improperly met in executive session during the Fall of 2018. 
Our office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies.  See OML 2013-180.  Nonetheless, we have reviewed 
minutes of Board meetings held between September 17, 2018, and December 17, 2018, and note that the Board did 
not convene in executive session to discuss litigation or mediation relating to the Housatonic River. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s 
responses to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review.  
In addition, we reviewed the notices and open session minutes of Board meetings held on 
February 4 and February 10, as well as the Housatonic Rest of River Settlement Agreement, and 
the February 6 Statement from the Housatonic Rest of River Municipal Committee.  Finally, we 
spoke with Assistant Town Manager and Director of Planning Christopher Rembold by 
telephone on December 18.  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  In 1999, the Environmental Protection Agency (the 
“EPA”), General Electric Company (“GE”) and the City of Pittsfield signed a settlement 
agreement to clean up the former GE site in Pittsfield and the first two miles of the Housatonic 
River which had become contaminated with polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs).  In October 
2013, the municipalities of Great Barrington, Lee, Lenox, Pittsfield, Sheffield and Stockbridge 
entered into an Intergovernmental Agreement to begin negotiations with GE regarding 
compensation for damages to the municipalities associated with the contamination and clean-up 
of the Housatonic River.  As part of the Intergovernmental Agreement, the municipalities created 
the Housatonic Rest of River Municipal Committee (the “Committee”) to advocate common 
clean-up goals for the remainder of the Housatonic River.  Each municipality appointed two 
representatives to the Committee.  The members of the Committee for the Town of Great 
Barrington included the Town Manager and the Assistant Town Manager. 
 
In 2016, the EPA issued a Rest of River clean-up plan requiring GE to ship all waste 
removed from the river out of state; GE appealed this plan. The EPA then initiated mediated 
negotiations between GE, the Committee and several other interested parties.  In January 2020, 
after years of litigation and a year of mediation, the Committee approved a settlement agreement 
with GE.3  However, the terms of the settlement agreement had to be separately approved by 
each of the five municipalities that were members of the Committee. 
 
The Board held meetings on February 4 and February 10 but did not convene in 
executive session during either meeting.  During the February 4 meeting, the Board met jointly 
with the Finance Committee and only discussed numerous Town Departments’ operating 
budgets, as well as capital requests.  During the February 10 meeting, the Board received a report 
from Assistant Town Manager Christopher Rembold regarding the “positive outcome of the 
lengthy litigation, settlement agreement” for the clean-up of the Housatonic River.4  Mr. 
 
3 The Environmental Protection Division of the Attorney General’s Office is aware of the settlement agreement and 
the outcome reached in the agreement but did not participate in the mediation between GE, the EPA and the 
Committee. 
4 We note that the notice for the Board’s February 10 meeting listed ten topics, one of which was “Town Manager’s 
Report.”  The topic of Town Manager’s Report included two subheadings - Department Updates and Project 
Updates.  When a meeting notice has included as a topic a report or presentation by somebody who is not a member 
of the public body, such as “Superintendent’s Report” or “Administrator’s Report” or “Report from Department 
Heads,” we have declined to find a violation of the Open Meeting Law for lack of specificity where the public body 
chair did not anticipate the specific nature of the deliberations to be had.  Nonetheless, we have encouraged public 
body chairs as a best practice to solicit from the Town Manager and include on the meeting notice more detail 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Rembold explained that a Berkshire Eagle news article as well as the EPA website had 
additional details of the agreement.  In addition, he advised that there would be three public 
information meetings where representatives from the Committee would provide information. 
 
DISCUSSION 
  
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.   
 
A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that 
a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each 
member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly 
announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.5  Before entering the executive session, the 
chair must state the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 
567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary 
... because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct 
business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was 
proper or improper”).  This level of detail about the executive session topic must also be 
included in the meeting notice.  See OML 2016-72.   
 
One permissible reason to convene in executive session is “to discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.”  G.L. c. 30A,   
§ 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).  This purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with 
respect to litigation that is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise 
demonstrably likely; the mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3.  See 
Doherty v. School Committee of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Perryman v. School 
Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-05.  When convening in 
executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body should identify the litigation matter to be 
discussed, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy.  See OML 2016-12; 
OML 2013-97.  While we generally defer to a public body’s assessment of whether the inclusion 
of such information would compromise the purpose for the executive session, a public body must 
be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for such a claim if challenged.  See OML 2015-14. 
 
 
regarding the precise matters to be discussed.  See OML 2019-94; OML 2018-33; OML 2012-19.  We remind the 
Board of its obligations under the law.  
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
The complaints allege that the Board improperly met in executive session between 
February 1 and February 10 to “deliberat[e] over and vot[e] on, mediation over litigation with” 
GE regarding clean-up of the Housatonic River.  Although the Board held meetings on February 
4 and February 10, the Board did not convene in executive session during either meeting.  The 
Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to meet in executive session but rather, if a 
public body chooses to meet in executive session, it must do so only for one of the enumerated 
purposes and after following proper procedures.  Because the Board did not convene in executive 
session on either February 4 or February 10 to discuss the settlement agreement, it did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2019-28. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  We now consider the 
complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address 
any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with our office.  Please feel free to 
contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Holly Hardman – By email only:  
 Susan Jennings – By email only:  
Christopher Rembold, Assistant Town Administrator and Director of Planning – By 
email only:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
