===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
January 24, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 14 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Benjamin M. Coyle, Esq. 
Bacon Wilson, P.C. 
33 State Street  
Springfield, MA 01103 
 
bcoyle@baconwilson.com 
    
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Coyle:  
 
On December 29, 2023, this office received three complaints from Roxanne Gunther, 
alleging that the Monson Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25 at its meeting on September 26.  The complaints were originally filed with the 
Board on October 5.
1  You responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated October 25.  The 
complainant alleges that the Board: 
 
1. denied access to the meeting by telling attendees to leave the meeting room prior to 
commencement of the meeting;  
2. discussed a matter not listed on the meeting notice, to wit, a citizen’s petition; and 
3. continued to deliberate after the meeting adjourned. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
discussed a citizen’s petition, which was not included as a topic of discussion on the notice of the 
September 26 meeting.  We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the 
other ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaints, the response to 
the complaints, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed the notice 
and minutes of the September 26 meeting and viewed a video recording of the September 26 
meeting.2  Finally, we reviewed the minutes of the Board’s October 10 meeting.    
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2023. 
2 The recording of the meeting may be accessed at https://m-
pact.tv/maestrov/app/client/webSite/index.php?s=3&category=2 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
  
We find the facts as follows.  The M onson fire department building is located on Main 
Street, behind a building occupied by the Arts Council, known as the House of Art.  At the 
Board’s September 12 meeting, it approved requests by the fire department to temporarily 
relocate to the House of Art during renovations of the fire department building, and to demolish 
the House of Art upon completion of those renovations.
3  The Board next met on September 26.  
Among the topics listed on the notice for the September 26 meeting was “House of Art Location 
– Reed Coles, Peter Barnett, and Ray Possick.”  Reed Coles had circulated a petition to rescind 
the votes the Board took on September 12 relative to the House of Art and planned to address the 
Board at its September 26 meeting.   
 
Anticipating heavy attendance in light of high interest in this topic, the Board made 
arrangements for the meeting to be live streamed to another room within town hall to 
accommodate overflow crowds.  However, the additional room still could not accommodate the 
number of people who appeared for the meeting.  The Building Commissioner, Justin Larivee, 
concluded that the number of people in the building exceeded its posted capacity.  Prior to 
commencement of the meeting, the Board Chair, Patricia Oney, approached Mr. Coles and 
advised that the meeting would need to be continued to a later date with adequate access to 
accommodate the crowd.  Mr. Coles, on his own initiative, explained to other persons in 
attendance that the meeting might be continued due to the size of the crowd.  Shortly thereafter, 
some members of the audience voluntarily left town hall.  At the commencement of the meeting, 
the Board Chair confirmed that the size of the crowd had dropped below posted capacity.  The 
meeting then went forward.  During the meeting, there was a lengthy discussion about the House 
of Art.   
 
At the conclusion of the “routine business” portion of the Board’s September 26 meeting, 
the following exchange transpired between Chair Oney and member Peter Warren: 
 
Oney:  And now I will ask if there is anything additionally you would like to speak 
about at this meeting?”   
Warren:  Are we talking about the. . . or can we talk about the petition? 
Oney:  Yes, you can.
4 
 
Mr. Warren then spoke about a petition to remove the Town Administrator that had been 
circulated.  He noted that some of the people who had signed the petition had not had any 
interaction with the Town Administrator.  He acknowledged a “legal right for freedom of 
information” but expressed frustration with what he saw as a waste of taxpayers’ money on legal 
fees and that people were being targeted.  He concluded: “Pick your battles.  If there’s something 
that’s really real, great, go for it.  But don’t shoot darts in a dark room and expect to get anything 
except for wasting money.”  Board member John Morrell and Chair Oney also expressed their 
frustration.  Chair Oney referenced or read from notes during her remarks and concluded by 
 
3 The September 12 votes are also the subject of another Open Meeting Law complaint Roxanne Gunther filed with 
the Board on October 5. 
4 Discussion of the petition commences at approximately 1:52 of the video recording.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
saying that she was very disappointed with those who signed the petition “without confirmation 
that what you are signing is true.” 
 
After the meeting concluded, Mr. Morrell and Ms. Oney remained in the meeting room.  
In her complaint, Ms. Gunther does not claim to have heard what was discussed following 
adjournment but states: “I know that they were talking and I do not believe they did not discuss 
what was spoken about during the meeting.”  The Board acknowledges that a conversation 
occurred after the meeting but denies that it concerned any matter within its jurisdiction.  Rather, 
Mr. Morrell and Ms. Oney discussed Ms. Oney’s blazer, according to the Board.     
 
DISCUSSION 
  
I. The Board did not deny access to the September 26 meeting. 
 
At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement that meetings of public bodies be 
open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except when meeting in executive 
session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”).  Generally, access to a 
meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and hear what is 
being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2021-43; OML 2017-135; OML 
2016-54.5 
 
Public bodies must make reasonable accommodations for larger-than-usual or overflow 
crowds.  See OML 2022-122; OML 2018-25; OML 2014-3.  When a public body learns in 
advance that a meeting is expected to draw a particularly large crowd, the body should make 
reasonable efforts to accommodate it.  See OML 2023-205 (finding no Open Meeting Law 
violation where Committee changed location of meeting to larger room less than 48 hours prior 
to meeting to accommodate anticipated crowd); OML 2016-111 (finding no Open Meeting Law 
violation where Board had no indication that television monitor in hallway would not 
accommodate possible overflow crowd).  Here, the Board took steps to accommodate the 
anticipated crowd.  Attendees were allowed to watch the meeting on monitors in a different 
room.  Moreover, when it appeared that the building could not hold the number of people who 
showed, Chair Oney started to make plans to reschedule the meeting.  However, as word 
circulated that the meeting might be continued to a later date, some audience members 
voluntarily left, thereby bringing the number of persons within the capacity of the building.  The 
complainant does not allege that the Board asked people to leave.  Rather, Mr. Coles, who was 
scheduled to address the Board, asked people to leave, apparently so that the meeting could 
proceed as scheduled.  Because the Board made reasonable accommodations for the anticipated 
crowd and was prepared to continue the meeting rather than deny access to those who wished to 
attend, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law.  
 
Although not determinative, we note that the September 26 meeting was held in person 
and was not accessible by remote means.  A public body may provide the public with “adequate, 
alternative” access to meetings instead of providing in-person access but is not required to do so 
if in-person access is provided.  G.L. c. 20, § 20(b); OML 2023-155.  Although not required, we 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
take this opportunity to encourage the Board to provide multiple means of access when possible.  
See OML 2023-193; OML 2023-52; OML 2021-148. 
 
II. Notice of the September 26 meeting was not sufficiently specific as it failed to 
include reference to the petition to remove the Town Administrator. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's 
discussion.  See OML 2023-3; OML 2019-134; OML 2015- 35.  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an 
informed decision whether to attend the meeting to observe the discussion regarding a topic of 
interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22.  A public body need not 
list every detail about a topic to comply with the Law's requirements.  See OML 2022-98; OML 
2020-132; OML 2019-134.  Likewise, the Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to 
list all tangential topics related to a discussion or anticipate the course of deliberation or outcome 
of a discussion, only that it identify the discussion topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
Ms. Gunther complains that a petition was discussed toward the end of the meeting, even 
though it was not listed on the notice.  She also doesn’t “feel that it should have been discussed 
at the very end of the meeting as it was.”  The Board makes two arguments that the discussion of 
the petition falls outside of the definition of “deliberation” and therefore is not governed by the 
Open Meeting Law.  The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 
‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or 
distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be 
discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  
The Board argues that (1) the discussion fell within the exception for distribution of reports or 
documents that may be discussed at a meeting; and (2) the petition that was discussed did not fall 
within the Board’s jurisdiction. 
 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it discussed the petition to 
remove the Town Administrator without listing that topic on the notice of the September 26 
meeting.  The Board does not deny that it anticipated discussion of the petition at least 48 hours 
prior to the meeting.  The recording of the meeting suggests that members did indeed anticipate 
the discussion.  Board member Warren appeared to be waiting for an opening to raise the subject 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
for discussion.  Prior to the meeting, he had the opportunity to review the names of those who 
signed the petition and concluded that some of the signatories had not had any personal 
interaction with the Town Administrator.  Similarly, the Chair read from, or at least referenced, 
prepared notes.  During the meeting, members of the Board dismissed the petition as baseless 
and criticized its drafter and signatories.6  Nonetheless, whether the petition had merit, the Chair 
reasonably anticipated discussing it at the meeting and should have listed it within the meeting 
notice.  The Open Meeting Law’s requirement that notice contain a “listing of topics that the 
chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting” contains no exception for topics 
deemed frivolous or petitions believed to be founded on lies.  Moreover, the Board’s argument 
that the discussion of the petition did not constitute deliberation is misplaced.  First, comments 
about the petition did not constitute distribution of a document to be discussed at a meeting; they 
constituted the discussion itself.  Second, as Chair Oney noted during her prepared remarks and 
in response to allegations within the petition, she was responsible for disciplining the Town 
Administrator and had done so.  The petition concerned discipline of the Town Administrator.  
For that reason alone, it cannot be said that discussion of the petition fell outside the Board’s 
jurisdiction.  Therefore, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.  
 
We decline to review Ms. Gunther’s complaint that the petition should not have been 
discussed at the end of a meeting “when some people have already stopped watching.”  Nothing 
within the Open Meeting Law dictates the order of items to be discussed at a meeting.  Indeed, a 
body may discuss topics in an order other than as set out in the notice, and the law does not 
prohibit a body from returning to a noticed topic later in a meeting to discuss it further.  See 
OML 2021-201; OML 2018-148.   
 
III. The Board did not deliberate after the September 26 meeting adjourned. 
 
The complainant alleges the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when two members 
remained in the meeting room after the September 26 meeting adjourned and talked.  The 
complainant acknowledges did not hear what they were saying but “do[es] not believe they did 
not discuss what was spoken about during the meeting.”  According to the Board, the two 
members were discussing Ms. Oney’s blazer.   
 
The complaint alleging deliberation after the September 26 meeting is one of two 
complaints that Ms. Gunther recently filed with the Board, based on speculation that the Board 
has deliberated outside of a public meeting.  As we have previously noted, absent sufficient 
evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body's account of the facts.  See OML 2023-121; 
OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141; see also LaPointe v. License Board of Worcester, 389 Mass. 
454 (1983) (“There is every presumption in favor of the honesty and sufficiency of the motives 
actuating public officers in actions ostensibly taken for the general welfare.”)  The Board 
maintains that the discussion concerned a blazer.  As there is no evidence that members of the 
Board deliberated outside of a meeting, we find no violation on this point.      
 
  
 
6 From the Chair’s comments, it appears that Ms. Gunther drafted the petition, although this was not stated explicitly 
during the meeting.  
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violat ed the Open Meeting Law in 
failing to include as a topic of its September 26 meeting the petition to remove the Town 
Administrator.  We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Law’s 
requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law.  We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the 
other ways alleged in these complaints.   
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
  
  
Matt
hew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
 
cc: Roxanne Gunther (via e-mail: )  
 Monson Town Administrator (via e -mail: 
jwolowicz@monson-ma.gov) 
 Monson Town Clerk (via email:  townclerk@monson-ma.gov) 
  
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
 
