===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 T EL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
June 16, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 70 
 
 
Carolyn Misch 
Assistant Director 
Office of Planning & Sustainability 
210 Main Street, Second Floor 
Northampton, MA 01060 
 
By e-mail only: CMisch@NorthamptonMA.gov 
  
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Misch: 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Callahan on March 11, 2020, alleging that 
the Northampton Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 7, 2020, and you responded, 
on behalf of the Board, by letter dated February 14, 2020.  The complaint alleges that the 
Board’s October 24, 2019, meeting minutes are inaccurate.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We 
also reviewed the open session minutes of the Board’s October 24, 2019, and February 13, 2020, 
meetings, as well as a video recording of the October 24, 2019, meeting.
1  Finally, we 
communicated with the complainant by email on April 30, 2020, and May 1, 2020. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board held a meeting on October 24, 2019, which the 
complainant attended.  During the meeting, the Board discussed, among other topics, a Site Plan 
 
1 A video recording of the Board’s October 24, 2019, meeting is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jRLFSy9hSwU. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Amendment to modify the drainage and lot layout for an affordable housing project on Burts Pit 
Road in Northampton.  Northampton Planning and Sustainability Director Wayne Feiden 
presented an overview of the project, focusing on the site plan modifications before the Board, 
which included property line changes, home footprints to maximize solar gain, and a centralized 
drainage system.  The Board heard from the project engineer who reviewed the specific changes 
to the property lots and the project developer who explained that there would be a homeowners’ 
association for drainage and the stormwater system.  The Board also heard from several 
residents, including the complainant, who raised issues with notice, raingardens, mosquitos, 
drainage, and traffic.  Specifically, the complainant asked the Board to table the motion and 
suspend action until a legitimate public hearing could occur, stated that he had not received 
notice for this meeting or three previous meetings, questioned the wording of the notice and 
suggested that this topic was not sufficiently detailed, stated that there was a “deliberate 
distortion” of facts and that the hearing was a “continuation of an illegal act.”  The complainant 
spoke to the Board a second time and expressed his concerns with the density and drainage of the 
project.  The Board closed the public hearing and unanimously approved the modifications with 
conditions. 
 
The minutes of the October 24, 2019, meeting record the comments of the complainant as 
follows: “Steve Callahan, 824 Burts Pit Road suggested that there was a conspiracy to secretly 
approve changes since adequate notice was not given” and “Steve Callahan, Burts Pit stated that 
it was too dense.”  The complainant suggests that this is an inadequate summary of his 
comments.    
 
 During a February 13, 2020 meeting , the Board reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint at issue.  The Board discussed its obligations to include “verbatim testimony” and then 
unanimously voted to “have staff respond on behalf of the Board indicating that the minutes 
accurately paraphrase and are in-line with the summary of other people’s comments of the 
hearing of October 24, 2019.” 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  When reviewing minutes for 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy 
requirement.  See OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64.2  By substantial compliance, we mean that the 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See 
OML 2012-106.   
 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The complainant alleges that the October 24, 2019, meeting minutes failed to include an 
accurate summary of his statements regarding an affordable housing project on Burts Pit Road.  
The complainant spoke twice during the October 24, 2019, meeting.  His second comment to the 
Board expressed his concerns with the density and drainage of the housing project.  We find that 
the minutes include a concise summary of the complainant’s second comment to the Board 
during the October 24, 2019, meeting and therefore this portion of the minutes complies with the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2017-104; OML 2017-29.   
 
The summary of the complainant’s first set of comments is a closer question.  We 
acknowledge that the minutes do not include every statement made by the complainant during 
his first comments to the Board on October 24, 2019.  However, the Open Meeting Law does not 
require a transcript of the discussions, nor that the minutes include every remark made or opinion 
presented.  See OML 2017-29; OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55.  Here, the complainant’s 
comments suggested that there was a distortion of facts, an illegal act and that the public hearing 
was not legitimate, while also conveying his displeasure with not having received notice of the 
meeting.  We find that the statement in the minutes that the complaint “suggested that there was 
a conspiracy to secretly approve changes since adequate notice was not given” offers a concise 
summary of the complainant’s remarks.  As such, the Board complied with the law’s requirement 
that it provide a summary of the discussions that occurred and we conclude that the minutes are 
sufficient.  See OML 2018-120.    
 
Finally, although not raised in the complaint, we note that the Open Meeting Law 
requires that “[a]fter notifying the chair of the public body, any person may make a video or 
audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a public body, or may transmit the meeting 
through any medium, subject to reasonable requirements of the chair as to the number, placement 
and operation of equipment used so as not to interfere with the conduct of the meeting.  At the 
beginning of the meeting, the chair shall inform other attendees of any recordings.”  G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(f).  The requirement that the chair inform attendees of any recording includes any recording 
made by members of the public body itself, including those made for public broadcasting or 
administrative purposes, such as assisting in the drafting of meeting minutes.  See OML 2016-
155; OML 2013-136; OML 2012-24.  Here, the October 24, 2019, meeting was recorded by 
Northampton Community Television but the chair did not make any announcement that the 
meeting was being recorded.  We remind the Board of its obligations under the law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, w e find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.   
  
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
       
 
       K e r r y A n n e  K i l c oyne 
       A s s i s t a n t  A t t o r n e y  G e n e r a l  
       D i v i s i o n  o f  O p e n  G o v e r n m e n t  
 
 
cc: Stephen Callahan – By e-mail only:  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
 
