===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
May 10, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 77 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Alexander Castro, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
alex@mtclawyers.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Castro: 
 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan on October 13, 2022,
1 alleging 
that the Ashland Sustainability Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on September 12, 
and, after an extension of time granted by this office, you responded on behalf of the Committee 
by letter dated October 13. The complaint alleges that the minutes for the Committee’s August 9 
meeting failed to list the documents used at the meeting. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Committee’s response, the request for further review, and the minutes of Committee meetings 
held on August 9 and August 23. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Minutes must 
include “the date, time and place [of the meeting], the members present or absent, a summary of 
the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” Id. 
(emphasis added). The Open Meeting Law does not define what it means for a document to be 
used at a meeting but, at a minimum, it is clear that where a document is physically present, 
verbally identified, and the contents are discussed by the members of a public body during an 
open meeting, it has been “used” for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-12; 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
OML 2012-42.2 As such, any documents that are physically present, verbally identified, and 
discussed during a meeting must be separately listed in the minutes. See OML 2022-141. It is not 
enough that those documents are simply referenced in the body of the minutes or that the minutes 
include a digital link to the documents. See OML 2019-29; OML 2018-70.  
 
The complaint alleges that the minutes of the Committee’s August 9 meeting, which were 
approved on August 23, are insufficient where they do not include a list of the documents used 
during the meeting. The Committee does not deny the allegation and instead responds that “to 
the extent . . . the Committee failed to include a separate list of documents and exhibits that were 
physically present, verbally identified, and discussed during its August 9, 2022 meeting, it will 
provide Mr. Morgan with a list of said documents forthwith.” Although we appreciate the 
Committee’s offer to provide a list of the documents used at the August 9 meeting to the 
Complainant, the minutes themselves must include a list of the documents used. See OML 2017-
200; OML 2022-34.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to list in the minutes of its August 9 meeting the documents used at the meeting. We 
order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements and caution 
that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
Additionally, we order the Committee, within 30 days, to amend the minutes of the August 9 
meeting to include a list of the documents used during the meeting.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Ashland Sustainability Committee (via email: sustainability@ashlandmass.com) 
Stephen Morgan (via e-mail: ) 
Ashland Town Clerk (via e-mail: tward@ashlandmass.com) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
