===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
April 27, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 49 
 
 
Paul Ferland 
Administrator of Community Utilities 
City of Fall River 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
 
By e-mail only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Mr. Ferland:  
 
This office received a complaint from Collin Dias on July 23, 2020, and a second 
complaint on January 25, 2021, alleging that the Fall River Sewer Commission (the 
“Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The first complaint 
was originally filed with the Commission on June 18, and you responded, on behalf of the 
Commission, by letter dated October 9, following an extension of time granted by our office.2 
The first complaint alleges that the Commission i) failed to provide real-time access to its June 
17 meeting; ii) improperly amended its notice within 48 hours of the June 17 meeting to include 
a topic; iii) failed to announce that the June 17 meeting was being recorded; and iv) discussed a 
topic that was not listed on the notice.  The second complaint was originally filed with the 
Commission on December 21, and you responded, on behalf of the Commission, by letter dated 
January 21, 2021, following an extension of time granted by our office.  The second complaint 
alleges that, after being granted an extension of time to respond, the Commission failed to 
respond to another complaint that the complainant filed with the Commission on October 23.3 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 
2 The complainant filed a separate complaint alleging that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to respond to his June 18 complaint within the timeframe established by the law, which is 14 business days 
unless an extension of time has been granted.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  In OML 2020-132, 
issued on October 20, we found that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely respond to 
the complainant’s June 18 complaint. 
3 The October 23 complaint remains pending with our office. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to provide the public with adequate, alternative means of access to its June 17 meeting 
and by failing to timely respond to the complainant’s October 23 Open Meeting Law complaint.  
We find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged.  
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Commission’s responses 
to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review.  We also 
reviewed the original and revised notices, as well as the video recording, of the Commission 
meeting held on June 17.4  Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on April 12, 2021.5 
  
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  On June 11 at 4:19 P.M., the Commission posted notice for 
a meeting to be held on Wednesday, June 17 at 2:00 P.M.  The notice stated “LOCATION: 
Virtual Zoom Meeting,” and below that listed the physical address for city hall, as well as a 
telephone number for the Sewer Department.  The notice then listed eleven topics, one of which 
was “Other Business.”  On June 15 at 3:10 PM., the Commission revised its notice to include one 
additional topic – Stormwater Fee Assessment Appeals, with the names and addresses of three 
residents.   
 
The June 17 meeting was held as planned and the Commission members participated in 
the meeting remotely.  At the beginning of the meeting, Chair Nadilio Almeida announced that 
“any person may make an audio or video recording of this public meeting or may transmit the 
meeting through any medium.  Attendees are therefore advised that such recordings or 
transmissions are being made whether perceived or unperceived by those present and are deemed 
acknowledged and permissible.”  Fall River Government Television recorded the Commission’s 
meeting.   
 
The Commission first heard from three residents who were appealing the assessment of a 
stormwater fee; the Commission denied each of the three appeals.  The Commission then 
discussed the remaining noticed topics.  During “Other Business,” the final noticed topic, Mr. 
Ferland thanked staff members of the Water and Sewer Department for working to ensure that all 
residents and business in Fall River had sanitation services during the pandemic.  Commission 
member Richard Souza then asked what streets and how many houses are exempt from the storm 
water fees and Mr. Ferland responded by identifying the specific streets and number of houses 
that were currently exempt. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We Find that the Commission’s June 17 Meeting Was Not Accessible to 
the Public. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement 
 
4 A video recording of the June 17 meeting is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vekxeJXwMWg. 
5 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, §20(a) (except 
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”). 
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as 
to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2020-100; 
2017-135; OML 2016-54.6 
 
On March 10, Governor Charles Baker declared a state of emergency in response to the 
public health emergency created by the outbreak of the 2019 novel Coronavirus (“COVID-19”).  
See Executive Order No. 591 (Mar. 10, 2020).  On March 12, Governor Baker issued an 
executive order temporarily suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting Law during the 
state of emergency.  See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, § 20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”).  Relevant here, the Executive Order 
temporarily suspends the requirement that meetings be held in locations that are physically 
accessible to the public provided the public body provides adequate, alternative means of public 
access.  The Executive Order provides that “[a]dequate, alternative means of public access shall 
mean measures that provide transparency and permit timely and effective public access to the 
deliberations of the public body . . . [enabling] the public to clearly follow the proceedings of the 
public body while those activities are occurring.”  Executive Order at Section 1.  
 
The first complaint alleges that the Commission failed to provide real-time access to its 
June 17 meeting.  Here, the notice for the Commission’s June 17 meeting stated “LOCATION: 
Virtual Zoom Meeting,” and below that listed the physical address for city hall, as well as the 
telephone number for the Sewer Department.7  The notice did not include any information that 
would allow a member of the public to access the meeting, such as a link to the Zoom meeting, 
nor did it include clear instructions for how to obtain such information.  As we previously found 
in OML 2020-132, resolving a similar complaint regarding the Commission’s May 27 meeting, 
we again find that the Commission failed to provide adequate alternative means of access to its 
June 17 meeting, and therefore, the meeting was not accessible to the public, in violation of the 
Open Meeting Law.8  See OML 2020-67. 
 
II. The Commission Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Amending 
the June 17 Meeting Notice. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b).  Every notice must include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A,          
§ 20(b).  Public bodies are required to list topics on a notice with “sufficient specificity to 
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
7 We note that inclusion of the physical address of city hall immediately under the statement “LOCATION: Virtual 
Zoom Meeting” could cause confusion regarding whether the meeting was being held at a physical location that the 
public may attend in person. 
8 Even though the Commission has been previously advised that it violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
include sufficient information in its notice to provide adequate alternative means of access to its meetings, we do  
not find an intentional violation here as that determination was not issued until well after the June 17 meeting.  See 
OML 2017-43. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(1) 
(b).  We generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public 
could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See 
OML 2015-35; OML 2012-71.    
 
The first complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing a 
topic, Stormwater Fee Assessment Appeals, during its June 17 meeting that was not listed on the 
original notice but rather was added within 48 hours of the meeting.  A public body may amend a 
meeting notice within 48 hours of a meeting to include an unanticipated topic and then discuss 
that topic during the meeting.  See OML 2019-131.  Here, the Commission amended the June 17 
meeting notice approximately 47 hours prior to the meeting to include the review of appeals filed 
by three residents relative to the assessment of a stormwater fee.  The Commission states that it 
did not anticipate this discussion until the three residents reached out to the Commission within 
the 48 hours prior to the June 17 meeting wishing to appeal the fee.  See OML 2017-2; OML 
2013-87.  Therefore, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
amending the June 17 meeting notice to include this unanticipated topic.  In fact, although the 
Commission could have discussed the unanticipated topic without adding it to the meeting notice 
at all, the Commission followed our recommended best practice of amending its meeting notice 
to include topics that arise fewer than 48 hours before a meeting, so that members of the public 
are given advance notice of agenda items.  See OML 2015-111; OML 2015-76. 
   
The complaint also alleges that the Commission discussed the assessment of stormwater 
fees, a topic which was not specifically listed on the June 17 meeting notice.  Towards the end of 
the meeting, Chair Almeida asked Commission members if there was any other business they 
would like to discuss.  Member Souza asked a couple of questions relating to the assessment of 
the stormwater fee, including which streets and how many houses were exempt from the fee.  
Mr. Ferland responded by identifying the specific streets and number of houses that were 
currently exempt.  We find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law as the 
questions from Mr. Souza were not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting.  
Moreover, had Mr. Souza asked such questions earlier in the meeting while the Commission was 
discussing the stormwater fee appeals, we would find that such discussions naturally flowed 
from the Commission’s consideration of the posted agenda topic.  See OML 2021-37; OML 
2020-99.  
 
III. We Find that the Chair Informed Attendees that the Meeting was Being 
Recorded. 
 
Finally, the first complaint alleges that the Commission did not make an adequate 
announcement that the June 17 meeting was being recorded.  This allegation is nearly identical to 
those made by Mr. Dias in a complaint against the Fall River Conservation Commission, which 
we addressed in OML 2020-159, and in a complaint against the Fall River City Council 
Subcommittee of Health and Environmental Affairs, which we addressed in OML 2021-39.  For 
the same reasons expressed in those determinations, we also find no violation here as the chair’s 
statement satisfied the requirement that he inform attendees of any recording.  See G.L. c. 30A,  
§ 20(f).  
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
IV. We Find that the Commission Failed to Timely Respond to an Open 
Meeting Law Complaint.  
 
The second complaint alleges that the Commission failed to timely respond to the 
complainant’s October 23 Open Meeting Law complaint.  A public body must respond to an 
Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 business days, unless the public body has been granted 
an extension from the Director of the Division of Open Government.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 
940 CMR 29.05(5).  On October 26, the Commission requested an extension of 90 days to 
respond to the October 23 complaint.  Our office denied the request for a 90-day extension, but 
granted a shorter extension of time, of 35 days, and directed  the Commission to respond to the 
complaint by December 18; yet the Commission did not respond to the complaint until January 
21, 2021.  The Commission is required to meet to review and respond to a complaint within 14 
business days or within the timeframe allowed by our office should an extension of time be 
granted.  We find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to respond to 
the October 23 complaint until January 21, 2021, 34 days beyond the extension granted by this 
office. 
 
On October 20, we issued a determination advising the Commission of the timeline for  
responding to an Open Meeting Law complaint.  See OML 2020-132.  We note our concern that 
the Commission failed to respond to the October 23 complaint within the time period required by 
the Open Meeting Law, after having been recently advised by the Attorney General of its 
obligations to timely respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint.  We caution the Commission 
that a future similar violation for a failure to timely respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint 
may result in an intentional violation and the recommendation of a civil penalty.  See 940 CMR 
29.02 (intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in 
knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law]” and can be found where the public body has 
previously been advised that certain conduct violates the law).   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to provide the public with adequate, alternative means of access to its June 17 
meeting and by failing to timely respond to the complainant’s October 23 Open Meeting Law 
complaint.  We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution 
that future similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  Collin Dias – By e-mail only:  
Fall River Sewer Commission – By e-mail only:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
