===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 10, 2026 
 
OML 2026 – 101 
 
Lauren F. Goldberg, Esq. 
KP Law  
 
By email only: lgoldberg@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Goldberg: 
 
This office received a complaint from Maureen Doyle on May 2, 2026,
1 alleging that the 
Southbridge Town Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about April 2, and you responded 
on behalf of the Council, by letter dated April 23.  The complaint alleges that the Council 
included an insufficiently specific topic on the notice of its March 30 meeting.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
way alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint, the Council’s response 
to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notice of the Council’s March 30 meeting and a recording of that meeting.
2 
Additionally, we reviewed the notice of a meeting the Charter Review Committee (the 
“Committee”) held on March 11,
3 and a recording of that meeting.4 We reviewed a 
memorandum sent by the Committee Chair to the Council Chair, dated March 17. Finally, we 
reviewed minutes of a meeting the Committee held on March 30. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. On March 11, the Charter Review Committee (the 
“Committee”) held a meeting, during which it discussed changes to the Town Charter to be 
recommended to the Council.  On March 17, Committee Chair Mike Montigny sent a 
memorandum to Council Chair Scott Lazo and the Town Manager, recommending on behalf of 
the Committee five changes to the Town Charter.  Committee Chair Montigny stated that the 
 
1 All dates are in 2026, unless stated otherwise. 
2 We accessed the recording at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1PbflT9zNBA. 
3 We accessed the notice at https://www.ci.southbridge.ma.us/AgendaCenter/ViewFile/Agenda/_03112026-3307. 
4 We accessed the recording at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kBZVjpClYLQ. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
changes “will be voted on by Town Council at the 3/30/2026 [meeting] so that the Town Clerk 
has time to get them onto the ballot.”  The first of the five recommended changes was: “STRIKE 
the entire section 2-2-3 so there is only section 2-2-1 and 2-2-2 left remaining for SECTION 2 - 
ELIGIBILITY.” Section 2-2-3 limits town councilors to three consecutive terms of office.       
 
On March 26, the Council posted notice of a meeting to be held on March 30. The notice 
included the following topic: “Review/discuss the recommendations of the Charter Review 
Committee and take any action.” The notice did not provide any information regarding the 
Committee’s recommendations. The Council’s March 30 meeting took place, as scheduled. 
During the meeting, the Council discussed the first of the five recommended changes, which 
concerned term limits. The Council did not discuss the remaining changes proposed by the 
Committee. Following the discussion, the Council voted to refer all five proposed changes to the 
General Government subcommittee. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. Id. The list of topics shall 
have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when 
a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35; OML 2013-39.
5   
 
Here, notice of the Council’s March 30 meeting listed the topic, “Review/discuss the 
recommendations of the Charter Review Committee and take any action” without any 
information regarding the substance of those recommendations.  During the March 30 meeting, 
the Council discussed the deletion of term limits from the Charter and voted to refer all of the 
proposed changes to the General Government subcommittee. In light of the Council’s discussion 
and vote, we find that the language of the March 30 notice, “review/discuss the 
recommendations of the Charter Review Committee and take any action” was insufficiently 
specific. See OML 2023-162 (finding notice topic “Review/Vote Budget if ready” insufficiently 
specific to reasonably advise public of discussion of proposal to add town planner and grant 
writer positions to town budget); OML 2019-77 (finding notice topic “Review FY20 
Department budgets” insufficiently specific where discussion of specific department budgets 
was anticipated); OML 2011-7 (“‘Town Meeting Update’ does not provide sufficient specificity 
when the chair of the Committee is aware of the specific items to be discussed and voted upon.”) 
Where Committee Chair Montigny clearly apprised Council Chair Lazo of the Committee’s 
recommendations on March 17, a discussion of the five changes was anticipated more than 48 
hours before the March 30 meeting.  When the Council discussed one of the five changes and 
referred them all to a subcommittee at its March 30 meeting, it violated the Open Meeting Law, 
as the changes to the Town Charter were not specified in the meeting notice. 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it discussed recommended changes to the Town Charter that were not described with 
sufficient specificity in the meeting notice. We order immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
the Council or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
  
Matthew Lindberg  
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
Assisted by Tai Walker, Legal Intern 
 
cc: Town Council – by email only: slazo@southbridgemass.org 
Marueen E. Doyle by email only:  
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
