===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 24, 2013 
OML 2013-140 
Thomas Greenaway, Chair 
Wayland Finance Committee 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Greenaway: 
This office received a complaint from George Harris, dated November 2, 2012, 
alleging that the Wayland Finance Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or 
about September 24, 2012, and the Committee responded to the original complaint by letter 
dated October 18, 2012. In his complaint, Mr. Harris alleges that the notice for the 
Committee's September 5, 2012 meeting failed to list, in the executive session topic, the name 
of the union with which the Committee was preparing to negotiate; the Committee failed to 
comply with requisite procedures for convening in executive session during its September 5, 
2012 meeting; and the Committee's September 5, 2012 meeting minutes were inaccurate. 
We reviewed the September 24, 2012 complaint; the Committee's October 18, 2012 
response; the November 2, 2012 complaint filed with our office, requesting further review; 
and a letter from the Committee to our office, which we received on November 19, 2012. We 
also reviewed the notice and meeting minutes, and listened to portions of the recording from 
the September 5, 2012 meeting. Finally, we spoke by telephone with then-Chairman William 
Steinberg. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to list a topic with sufficient specificity in its meeting notice; by failing to create 
accurate meeting minutes; and by failing to follow required procedures for entering into 
executive session. We commend the Committee's efforts to address these violations, however 
we find the remedial action taken was not wholly sufficient, for the reasons explained below. 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
o 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
On September 5, 2012, the Committee convened in open session. The meeting notice, 
posted on August 31, 2013, listed several topics for discussion, including "Executive Session-
approve executive session minutes of July 9, 2012 and discuss negotiation strategy." The 
meeting minutes state that, during the September 5, 2012 meeting. Chairman William 
Steinberg made a motion, "to enter executive session pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 30A, 
Section 21(a)(3), for the purpose of discussing strategies with respect to collective bargaining 
because a discussion of these matters in open session may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining position of the Town" and announced that the Committee would reconvene in 
open session, following the closed door session, to adjourn the meeting. However, the 
recording from this meeting shows that Chairman Steinberg did not announce whether the 
Committee would reconvene in open session. 
According to Mr. Steinberg, at this meeting the Committee was not looking at any 
particular contracts, but focused on broader long-term strategies with respect to the Town's 
employment contracts. During the executive session, the Committee briefly discussed "the 
approach to negotiations, the metrics desired for comparison and identifying the next steps for 
improving healthcare savings" and discussed inflation rates to discern how the present 
contracts compared to inflation growth. 
Upon the filing of this complaint. Chairman Steinberg acknowledged during the 
Committee's October 3, 2012 meeting that the motion to enter into executive session during 
its September 5, 2012 meeting was insufficient and that the meeting minutes do not accurately 
reflect the language used for the motion. The Committee voted to amend the minutes. In 
further response to the complainant's concerns, during its November 26, 2012 meeting, the 
Committee voted to include a footnote to the revised minutes as follows: "the motion should 
have stated that executive session discussions would cover contract negotiations with those 
bargaining units with agreements expiring on June 30, 2013 and should also have stated that 
the Committee would return to open session for the sole purpose of adjourning." 
DISCUSSION 
After this complaint was filed, the Committee acknowledged certain procedural 
violations and took action to revise its admittedly inaccurate meeting minutes. While we 
applaud the Committee's effort to be responsive to the concerns raised, and find that the 
Committee took appropriate remedial action with regard to the accuracy of its minutes, we 
find that the remedial action taken in response to the remaining allegations was insufficient. 
The Open Meeting law requires that public bodies post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed 
at the meeting." G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b). Public bodies must list the topics for discussion with 
"sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to include sufficient 
specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the 
anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. OML 2011 -44. In addition, prior to 
2 
===PAGE 3===
entering executive session, the chair of a public body must first announce in open session the 
purpose for the executive session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 
21(b)(3). This level of detail about the executive session purpose must also be included in the 
notice for the meeting. See OML 2013-28; OML 2011-54. 
The Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to list a topic with 
sufficient specificity on its meeting notice. The topic, "Executive Session- approve executive 
session minutes of July 9, 2012 and discuss negotiation strategy" did not offer the public a 
sufficient understanding of the specific purpose for the executive session. In previous 
determinations, our office has held that, when meeting in executive session to discuss 
collective bargaining, a public body must identify the name of the union with which it is 
negotiating, both on the meeting notice and prior to convening the executive session. OML 
2012-39. The Committee's notice should, therefore, have listed the names of the bargaining 
units to put any interested member of the public on notice that it was discussing strategy with 
respect to a specific bargaining unit in executive session. See OML 2011-56; District 
Attorney for Northern Dist. v. School Committee of Wayland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 (Mass. 
2009) ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary 
under the open meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public that the 
school committee would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know 
if the reason for doing so was proper or improper"). Likewise, this detail about the purpose 
for the executive session should have been included in Chairman Steinberg's announcement 
in open session. 
Although the footnote to the minutes that was adopted by the Committee on 
November 26, 2012 added some detail about what was discussed, the Committee still did not 
identify the specific bargaining units that it discussed behind closed doors on that date, 
requiring instead that the public determine which employment contracts were scheduled to 
expire on June 30, 2013. Furthermore, we note that the requirement that a public body state 
the purpose for its executive sessions in as much detail as possible in the meeting notice and 
prior to entering executive session is intended to give the public notice of what the body plans 
to discuss behind closed doors. OML 2012-68. Similarly, the requirement that a body state 
whether it plans to reconvene in open session following an executive session also serves to 
give the public notice of something that is about to occur. Thus, amending the minutes after 
the fact, even if the amendments had contained sufficient detail, does not achieve the goals of 
the law. OML 2012-68. Accordingly, we find that the remedial action taken was not 
sufficient. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law. The Committee took appropriate remedial action with regard to the accuracy of its 
minutes, however we find the remedial taken with respect to the remaining allegations was 
not sufficient. We order the Committee's immediate and future compliance with the Open 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Meeting Law, and caution that future similar violations may be considered evidence of an 
intentional violation of the Law. 
With the issuance of this determination, we now consider this matter closed. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: George Harris 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
4 