===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
March 9, 2020 
OML 2020 - 35
Carolyn Murray, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
12th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Murray:
This office received two complaints from David Calhoun on January 8, 2020, alleging 
that the Plymouth Zoning Board of Appeals (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Board on or about December 9, 
2019.1 You responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated December 27. In his complaints, 
Mr. Calhoun alleges that the Board 1) failed to post notice in compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law for a December 4 meeting, and 2) failed to comply with the notice requirements of G.L. c. 
40A, § 11 for the same meeting.2
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a). 
The Board convened a meeting on December 4 at 7:00 pm. Notice for the meeting was posted to 
the Town’s municipal website, https://www.plymouth-ma.gov. on December 2 at 9:33 am.3 
Notice for the meeting was not posted to any other location. The Town believes that 
approximately five years ago it adopted its municipal website as the official posting location for 
meeting notices, and represents that it has been the Town’s practice since that time to post all 
meeting notices to the municipal website. Upon request from our office, the Town was unable to
1 Hereinafter, all dates are in 2019, unless otherwise stated.
2 The Division of Open Government only interprets and enforces the Open Meeting Law, and does not review 
allegations of violation of any other laws. See OML 2013-135, 2 n.2. Therefore, we decline to review Mr. Calhoun’s 
second complaint.
3 We note that meeting notices posted to the Town’s municipal website do not include the date and time the notices 
are posted. We remind the Board of its obligation to include such information on its meeting notices. See 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(d) (“The date and time that a meeting notice is posted shall be conspicuously recorded thereon or 
therewith.”).
o
1

===PAGE 2===
produce any documentation showing that it had notified our office of its adoption of the 
municipal website as the Town’s official notice posting location. Our office was similarly unable 
to find any documentation showing that the Town had notified us of its adoption of the website. 
Since the filing of the present complaint, the Town has provided our office with written notice 
that it has adopted its municipal website as its official notice posting location.
Under the Open Meeting Law, the default notice posting location for a local public body 
is a location “conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on the municipal building in 
which the clerk’s office is located.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c); 940 CMR 29.03(2)(a). The Law allows 
for alternative methods of posting meeting notices as prescribed by the Attorney General.
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c). The Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations allow the Chief 
Executive Officer of a municipality to adopt the municipality’s website as the official posting 
location for meeting notices. See 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b). Once the municipal website has been 
adopted, “the municipal clerk ... shall file with the Attorney General written notice of adoption 
of the alternative method, including the website address where applicable, and any change 
thereto, and the most current notice posting method on file with the Attorney General shall be 
consistently used.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(c). The Attorney General’s Division of Open Government 
maintains on its website a list of all municipalities with information on the notice posting method 
for each.
We credit the Board’s account that the Town opted to adopt the municipal website as its 
official notice posting location approximately five years ago. However, we find no evidence that 
the Town notified our office of that decision, as is required by the Open Meeting Law 
regulations. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(c). Therefore, we find that the Board failed to post notice to the 
Town’s official notice posting location, which at the time was in or on the municipal building in 
which the clerk’s office is located. Because the Town has since notified our office that it adopted 
its municipal website as its official notice posting location, we find no need to order further 
remedial action from the Board.4 See OML 2014-65.
For the above reasons, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to post notice to the Town’s official notice posting location. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law and note that future similar violations may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by 
this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that 
may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 
963-2540 if you have any questions.
4 Through subsequent communications, the Complainant has expressed concern that the Town has not properly 
posted the required notice informing members of the public where to find meeting notices online. The Attorney 
General’s Open Meeting Law regulations provide that when a municipality adopts its website as its official notice 
posting location, “a description of the website as the notice posting method, including directions on how to locate 
notices on the website, shall be posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours on or adjacent to 
the main and handicapped accessible entrances to the municipal building in which the clerk's office is located.” 940 
CMR 29.03(2)(b)(2). Because this allegation was not raised in either complaint, we do not make a finding regarding 
whether the Town has complied with the regulation.
2

===PAGE 3===
Sincere!
;h Cames Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Plymouth Zoning Board of Appeals
David Calhoun
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3
