===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL ONE ASHBURTON PLACE BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108  (617) 727-2200  (617) 727-4765 TTY  www.mass.gov/ago   
 April 29, 2020         OML 2020 – 55  VIA EMAIL  Omar Bennani, Esq.  Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 30 Green Street Newburyport, MA 01950 Omar@mtclawyers.com   RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint Dear Attorney Bennani: This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan on December 12, 2019, alleging that the Ashland Affordable Housing Trust (the “Trust”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Trust on November 12, 2019, and you responded on behalf of the Trust by letter dated December 9.1 In his complaint, Mr. Morgan alleges that the Trust posted a meeting notice that lacked sufficient detail and failed to include anticipated topics. Mr. Morgan also alleges that the Trust failed to keep accurate minutes and failed to include in its minutes a list of documents used at the meeting. Finally, Mr. Morgan alleges that the Trust posted minutes for its November 7 meeting without having approved them.  Following our review, we find that: 1) The Trust’s meeting notice for its November 7 meeting was insufficiently detailed; 2) The Trust’s November 7 meeting minutes are insufficiently detailed;  3) The Trust permissibly discussed an unanticipated topic at its November 7 meeting;  4) The Trust approved its November 7 meeting minutes in a timely manner; and 5) The Trust’s November 7 meeting minutes failed to list documents used at the meeting.                                                                1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2019. 
===PAGE 2===
2  
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the complaint, the Trust’s response and the request for further review. In addition, we reviewed the original and amended meeting minutes for the Trust’s November 7 meeting as well as the draft minutes of the Trust’s December 5 meeting. We corresponded with you by email in January and February 2020 and with Mr. Morgan in April, 2020. FACTS We find the facts as follows. On November 1, the Trust posted notice for a meeting to be held on November 7. The notice included, among other items, the topics, “Inclusionary zoning – Town Planner” and “Main Street/Cherry Street.”  The Trust met on November 7 as scheduled. The first topic discussed was the possibility of drafting an inclusionary zoning by-law for the town. The Town Planner led this discussion and the Trust voted unanimously to have the Town Planner reach out to the Planning Board and Metropolitan Area Planning Council to develop a “scope of work” for an inclusionary by-law. The Trustees then discussed and voted to recommend that the Select Board add a new Trustee.  Subsequently, the Trustees discussed a possible redevelopment plan for the Main Street/Cherry Street location. As part of this topic, the Trustees discussed renderings of the potential development at that site, including possible redevelopment of the “Corner Spot.” The Corner Spot is a collaborative community gathering property owned by the Trust.  Towards the end of the meeting, new Trustees raised a topic which was not included on the meeting notice, insurance for the Corner Spot. The Trust had discussed the topic of insurance for the Corner Spot in prior meetings; however, the Chair did not anticipate 48 hours in advance of the November 7 meeting that this topic would be discussed at this particular meeting. Shortly after the November 7 meeting, the Trust posted draft minutes of that meeting to the Town’s website, without indication that the minutes were in draft form. Mr. Morgan, as a subscriber to automatic email updates related to the Trust, was notified that the meeting minutes had been posted.  On November 12, Mr. Morgan filed his Open Meeting Law complaint. At its December 5 meeting, the Trust discussed and approved a letter which Town Counsel drafted in response to the complaint. In response to the complaint, the Trust also voted to amend the draft November 7 meeting minutes by adding the street address of the Main Street/Cherry Street property and a reference to redevelopment of the Corner Spot. The Trust then unanimously voted to approve the amended minutes during its December 5 meeting.  DISCUSSION I. The Meeting Notice for the Trust’s November 7 Meeting was Insufficiently Detailed.  The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting and include in that notice a “listings of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). When reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting 
===PAGE 3===
3  
notice standing alone. See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155.2 Rather, we review what the public body actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently detailed to make the public aware of the discussion topics. Id.  We find that the Trust’s meeting notice for its November 7 meeting was insufficiently detailed. The complainant alleges that the items “Inclusionary zoning – Town Planner” and “Main Street/Cherry Street” do not give a reasonable member of the public a clear understanding of the anticipated topic. We agree with the complainant that the item “Main Street/Cherry Street,” although it provides a general location of the property to be discussed, does not provide any information about the anticipated nature of the discussion. For example, the topic as listed does not inform the public whether the Trust would be discussing potential development of the property, or the possibility of acquiring the property, or something else. Therefore, we find that the Trust violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post a sufficiently detailed notice for its November 7 meeting. II. The Trust’s November 7 Approved Meeting Minutes are Insufficiently Detailed.  The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2017-104; OML 2013-64. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2019-145; OML 2012-106. Although a transcript of the discussions is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented, minutes must include a substantive summary of the discussion on each topic. See OML 2018-8; OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55.  Here, the Trust’s November 7 meeting minutes, as approved, fall far short of the accuracy requirement in the Open Meeting Law. The minutes provide little more than a list of topics, sometimes merely stating that “discussion around” a certain topic took place. The Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes include more than a statement that a public body held a discussion about a specified topic; the Law requires that the minutes summarize the discussion that was held. See OML 2019-167; OML 2018-8.   In response to the complaint, the Trust added to its draft meeting minutes the street address of the Main Street/Cherry Street property and an allusion to a discussion of “Corner Spot potential redevelopment.” However, the minutes still failed to provide a summary of the discussion that took place on this and several other topics. We therefore find that the Trust violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to draft and approve accurate minutes for its November 7 meeting.                                                               2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4  
III. The Trust Permissibly Discussed an Unanticipated Topic at its November 7 Meeting.   The Open Meeting Law states in relevant part that, “[e]xcept in an emergency, in addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays ... Notice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A public body may discuss topics that were not reasonably anticipated by the Chair 48 hours before the meeting, even if they were not listed on the meeting notice. See OML 2013-61; OML 2011-36. However, the Attorney General strongly recommends that public bodies, as a matter of best practice, table unplanned topics that might be of significant interest to the public in order to include them in a meeting notice for a subsequent meeting. See OML 2016-54; OML 2018-119. This gives the public a greater opportunity to understand how public policy decisions are made, furthering the larger aim of the Open Meeting Law.  Here, the complaint alleges that the Trust violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include the issue of insurance coverage for the Corner Spot on the meeting agenda. We disagree. The Corner Spot is owned by the Trust and the Trust had discussed insurance issues regarding the property at prior meetings. However, the Chair represents that he did not anticipate 48 hours in advance that this topic would be discussed at the November 7 meeting. Rather, new Trustees raised the issue at the meeting. Absent evidence to the contrary, we credit the public body's account of the facts. See OML 2017-2.   We have previously stated that the Open Meeting Law does not require the chair of a public body to guess what will occur at a meeting. See OML 2018-119; OML 2013-197. We also have not found an Open Meeting Law violation where, as here, a topic had been discussed by a public body previously, but the chair did not anticipate that it would be discussed at a particular meeting and therefore the meeting notice did not contain the topic. See OML 2018-159; OML 2014-100. As the Corner Spot insurance discussion was not reasonably anticipated by the Chair 48 hours in advance of the November 7 meeting, we find that the Trust did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to include this topic on the meeting notice.  IV. The Trust Properly Approved its November 7 Meeting Minutes in a Timely Manner.   The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes must be reviewed and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Open Meeting Law itself does not define “timely manner.” However, the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations provide that “timely manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.” 940 
===PAGE 5===
5  
C.M.R. 29.11 (2). Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2019-39; OML 2014-15; OML 2012-91.3  Here, there has been some confusion about when the Trust approved the November 7 meeting minutes since the draft meeting minutes that were made available to the public were not labeled as such. We have verified that, at its December 5 meeting, the Trust unanimously approved the meeting minutes for its November 7 meeting. Because the Trust voted to approve its November 7 meeting minutes at the Trust’s next meeting, we find that the Trust timely and properly approved the minutes of its November 7 meeting.  V. The Trust’s November 7 Meeting Minutes Failed to List Documents Used at the Meeting.    The Open Meeting Law also requires that meeting minutes include “a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The Open Meeting Law does not define what it means for a document to be “used” at a meeting but, at a minimum, it is clear that where a document is physically present, verbally identified, and the contents are discussed by the members of a public body during an open meeting, it has been “used” for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2019-46, OML 2017-43. Here, since the Trustees verbally identified and discussed renderings of the Main Street/Cherry Street redevelopment at the November 7 meeting, the renderings were “used” at the meeting and should have been listed in the meeting minutes. Therefore, we find the Trust violated the Open Meeting Law by approving meeting minutes which failed to list documents used at the November 7 meeting.  CONCLUSION  For the reasons stated above, we find that the Trust violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently detailed notice for its November 7 meeting and by approving minutes for its November 7 meeting that were insufficiently detailed and that failed to list documents used at the meeting.    We order the Trust’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Trust that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.   We also order the Trust to amend the November 7 meeting minutes to include sufficient detail about the discussions that occurred, as well as a list of all documents used, within 60 days of receipt of this determination.   We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Trust. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions.                                                                 3 We note that the Open Meeting Law does not govern the method for approving minutes. Public bodies may choose the method for approving their minutes, including approval by the public body chair alone, by majority vote of the public body, or by consent of the body (approved unless there is an objection). When a quorum of a public body approves minutes, however, it must do so during a noticed meeting. See OML 2019-25.  
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Chase 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Stephen Morgan (via e-mail: ) 
 Ashland Affordable Housing Trust, c/o Town Manager, Michael D. Herbert (via e-mail:  
 mherbert@ashlandmass.com) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order 
