===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
October 30, 2019
OML 2019-138
Larry White
Chairman, Rowley Finance Committee 
139 Main Street 
Rowley, MA 01969
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Mr. White:
This office received a complaint from Mr. Henry Rolfe alleging that the Rowley Finance 
Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaint was filed with the Committee on or about March 12, 2019, and you responded by 
letter dated March 19, 2019. Mr. Rolfe alleges that he was denied the ability to fully participate 
at the Committee’s March 12 meeting, that the Chair1 denied his request that his comments be 
included in the minutes of the March 12 meeting, and that he was not provided with a copy of a 
document called “FY20 Tentative Budget” before the meeting when he requested a copy.2
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response, and 
the Complainant’s request for further review.
FACTS
On March 123 the Committee held a meeting to discuss various departments’ budgets. 
Before the meeting began, the Complainant requested a copy of the FY20 Tentative Budget from 
a Committee staff member. Such document did not exist and was not provided to the 
Complainant. During the meeting, the Complainant addressed the Committee, commenting on
1 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person going forward.
2 Mr. Rolfe also alleges that he was discriminated against based on his age, that profanity was used toward him, and 
that the Committee has violated G.L. c. 87, § 3. We do not address these allegations as they fall outside of the Open 
Meeting Law.
3 All dates are in 2019.
o
1

===PAGE 2===
the safety risk he believed an old maple tree presented. The Chair, finding these comments to be 
disruptive, refused to allow the Complainant to continue speaking at the meeting. The minutes 
for the March 12 meeting state that the Complainant “addressed the Finance Committee to 
discuss his concerns about tree limbs creating a dangerous situation” during a discussion of the 
Tree Warden’s salary and the budget for tree trimming.
DISCUSSION
I. The Committee did not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Limiting the
Complainant’s Ability to Speak at its March 12 Meeting.
The Open Meeting Law states that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body 
without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.” G.L. 
c. 30A § 20(g). The law does not require that a public body allow public participation, but rather 
gives the chair of the public body discretion to decide whether to permit public comment during 
a meeting, and if public comment will be permitted, to set restrictions on public comment. See 
OML 2019-120; OML 2014-23; OML 2012-78.4 Because public participation is at the chair’s 
discretion, the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting by limiting the Complainant’s ability 
to speak at the meeting. See OML 2017-181. Although not required under the Law, we do 
encourage public bodies to allow for as much public participation as time and circumstances 
permit. IT
II. The Minutes for the March 12 Meeting are Sufficiently Detailed with Regard to the
Complainant’s Comments.
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). We review minutes for substantial 
compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2011-55. By substantial compliance, we 
mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public 
who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what 
occurred. Id. While the minutes must include a summary of the discussions on each subject, a 
transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion 
presented. See OML 2017-104; OML 2012-29.
The Complainant alleges that the Chair denied the Complainant’s request that his 
comments regarding the old maple tree be included in the minutes of the March 12 meeting. The 
Committee was not required to acquiesce to this request; the Committee is only required to 
create and maintain accurate minutes. We find that the inclusion in the minutes that the 
Complainant “addressed the Finance Committee to discuss his concerns about tree limbs creating 
a dangerous situation,” meets the Committee’s obligation under the Law to create and maintain 
accurate meeting minutes.
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
III. The Open Meeting Law Does Not Require That Public Bodies Distribute Copies of
Documents Used During a Meeting.
All documents and other exhibits used by a public body at an open or executive session 
meeting “shall, along with the minutes, be part of the official record of the session.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(d). Furthermore, all documents and exhibits used during an open meeting “shall be public 
records in their entirety and not exempt from disclosure pursuant to any of the exemptions” to 
the public records law, although certain material may be exempt from disclosure to the public as 
personnel information. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e). Although documents used by a public body during 
an open meeting must be provided in response to a public records request, there is no 
requirement in the Open Meeting Law that the public body affirmatively provide copies of those 
documents to persons in attendance at a meeting. See OML 2016-94; OML 2015-199. If the 
documents are requested by an attendee during the meeting, the public body's response is 
governed by the Public Records Law, which requires only that the public body respond to the 
request within ten days. See G.L. c. 66, § 10(a-b); 950 CMR 32.06(2); OML 2015-199.
The Complainant alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it did 
not provide him with a document titled FY20 Tentative Budget after he requested a copy at the 
March 12 meeting. The Committee responds that there is no FY20 Tentative Budget document; 
rather, at the March 12 meeting, the Committee reviewed various budget documents provided by 
town departments. In its response, the Committee provided the minutes for the March 12 meeting 
along with the budget documents that were discussed at the meeting. After review of the minutes 
and the budget documents attached thereto, we conclude that there was no FY20 Tentative 
Budget document. To the extent the Complainant alleges that the Committee should have 
provided the various budget documents when he requested the FY20 Tentative Budget, because 
the Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to provide copies of documents to meeting 
attendees, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it did not 
provide the budget documents.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the ways alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with 
our office or the Commission. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions.
Sincerely,
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
3

===PAGE 4===
cc: Mr. Henry Rolfe
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
4
