===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
June 23, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 121 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONL
 Y  
 
Attorney Elizabeth Paris 
Valerio Dominello & Hillman, LLC 
One University Avenue 
Suite 300B 
Westwood, MA 02090 
Elizabeth.Paris@VDHBoston.com 
 
 
 RE: Ope n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Paris: 
 
This office received a complaint from Judith Crosby on January 26, 2022, alleging that 
the Sharon School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on November 16, 2021,
1 and, 
after an extension of time granted by this office, you responded on behalf of the Committee by 
letter dated December 17. Ms. Crosby alleges that the Committee deliberated during its October 
20 meeting on an anticipated topic that was not listed on the notice for that meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s 
response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed 
the notice, minutes, and video recording of the Committee’s October 20 meeting;2 and the notice 
and minutes of a meeting held on October 18 by the Committee’s Policy Subcommittee. Finally, 
we also corresponded with you via email on May 10, 2022.   
 
 
1 Unless otherwise noted, all dates refer to the year 2021.  
2 A video recording of the Committee’s October 20 meeting may be found at  
https://tv.sharontv.com/CablecastPublicSite/show/10657?channel=3.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Committee, along with school administrative 
staff, maintains a document titled School Committee Meeting/Agenda Planning Document (the 
“Planning Document”). This document serves as a list of potential topics for discussion at future 
meetings and tracks when topics have been addressed. On September 2, the Chair of the 
Committee, Tanya Lewis, requested that the item “Flag Displays – which flags are displayed on 
school flagpoles” be added to the Planning Document and it was thereafter added to the Planning 
Document. Additionally, during a discussion at the Committee’s September 17 meeting 
regarding whether it should allow the POW/MIA flag to be flown in honor of POW/MIA Flag 
Recognition Day, Chair Lewis confirmed that she had asked the Committee’s Policy 
Subcommittee (the “Policy Subcommittee”) to consider a flag policy at one of its upcoming 
meetings.  
 
The Policy Subcommittee posted notice for a meeting to be held on October 18. Included 
on the notice was the topic “Discussion and Possible Vote on Flag Policy (New Policy 
Consideration).” During the October 18 meeting, the Policy Subcommittee discussed the 
possibility of adopting a flag policy, but ultimately agreed not to adopt a flag policy at that time. 
 
With respect to the creation of the Committee’s meeting notices, Jane Martin, 
Administrative Assistant to the Assistant Superintendent, creates the initial draft notice. She then 
meets with the Superintendent, Assistant Superintendent, and the Committee’s Chair and Vice 
Chair to discuss the meeting notice. Neither Chair Lewis nor the Administrative Assistant 
anticipated that the Committee would discuss a flag policy at its October 20 meeting, and the 
topic was not raised during the preparatory meeting for the October 20 meeting.  
 
The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on October 20. Under the heading 
“IV. Discussion Items” the notice listed six separate policies to be discussed. The notice did not 
include a topic related to a flag policy.  
 
During the “Discussion Items” portion of the meeting, Committee member Julie Rowe 
asked the Committee to discuss adopting a flag policy. Prinsel Dominique, Chair of the Policy 
Subcommittee Committee, and Avi Shemtov, a member of the Policy Subcommittee, both 
explained that the Policy Subcommittee discussed the possibility of adopting a flag policy at the 
October 18 meeting but decided that there was no need for a flag policy at that time and therefore 
did not propose a flag policy to the Committee. The Committee then discussed, for 
approximately 26 minutes, the merits of establishing a flag policy. At the conclusion of this 
discussion, Member Shemtov moved to deny a request that had been made to fly the Gadsden 
Flag on Sharon School District property. Chair Lewis stated that the motion was out of order. 
Thereafter, Member Rowe moved to establish a flag policy; her motion did not receive a second.   
 
Following the discussion, Chair Lewis noted that the Committee could develop a flag 
policy but stated that the discussion should be tabled until a future meeting so that the Committee 
could provide notice to the public. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public  bodies post notice for all meetings at least 48 
hours prior to the meeting, excluding weekends and holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice 
must include, among other things, a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting.” Id. Where the chair delegates to another person responsibility for 
creating the meeting notice, we also look to what that person anticipates will be discussed 48 
hours before the meeting. See OML 2020-164; OML 2020-80; OML 2015-190.
3 A public body 
may discuss a truly unanticipated topic at a meeting, even if that topic was not included on the 
meeting notice; however, we strongly encourage public bodies to table discussion of topics that 
were not included on the meeting notice until a subsequent meeting so that notice may be 
provided to the public. See OML 2019-131; OML 2018-119. When reviewing whether a topic 
was anticipated, we look to whether it was reasonably anticipated for discussion at the particular 
meeting at issue. See OML 2020-55; OML 2018-159; OML 2017-2. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing 
the possibility of adopting a flag policy during its October 20 meeting when that topic was not 
included on the notice for that meeting. The Committee asserts that it did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by discussing a flag policy at its October 20 meeting because that topic was not 
reasonably anticipated. The Committee explains that neither the Committee Chair nor the 
Administrative Assistant anticipated that this topic would be discussed at the October 20 meeting 
and that the topic was not raised during the planning meeting for the October 20 meeting. We 
credit the Committee’s account of events. Indeed, we find the evidence before us, including the 
video recording of the Committee’s October 20 meeting, to clearly indicate that this topic was 
not anticipated for discussion at the October 20 meeting. It is clear that the Policy Subcommittee 
considered whether to adopt a flag policy during its October 18 meeting; that the Policy 
Subcommittee chose not to recommend adopting a flag policy and therefore did not ask for that 
policy to be included on the notice for the Committee’s October 20 meeting; and that an 
individual member of the Committee raised the issue on her own during the October 20 meeting. 
 
The complaint asserts that discussion of a flag policy should have been anticipated for 
disc
ussion at the October 20 meeting. In support of this assertion, the Complainant points to 
several facts: 1) that this topic was included on the Planning Document; 2) that the Committee 
had received correspondence from the public regarding this topic; 3) that during the Committee’s 
September 17 meeting Chair Lewis stated that she had asked the Policy Subcommittee to 
consider this topic; 4) that the Policy Subcommittee did consider this topic at its October 18 
meeting; and 5) that the Administrative Assistant and the Chair of the Policy Subcommittee 
exchanged emails regarding which policies were included on the notice for the Committee’s 
October 20 meeting. The evidence raised by the Complainant shows that the Committee and its 
Chair were generally considering the possibility of adopting a flag policy and that the Policy 
Subcommittee did discuss such possibility—although it decided not to adopt a flag policy at that 
time—but does not support a finding that this topic was reasonably anticipated for discussion at 
the Committee’s October 20 meeting. Therefore, we credit the Committee’s account of events 
and find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. See OML 2019-26 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/ the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
(“…absent evidence to the contrary, although the topic had been ‘rattling around’ in [the Chair’s] 
head, we credit the Board’s account that the topic was unanticipated . . . for discussion at [the] 
meeting.”); OML 2017-2 (finding no violation where the chair did not anticipate discussing a 
topic at a particular meeting); OML 2013-197 (finding no violation where the Chair did not 
anticipate that a public body member would raise a particular topic). 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate  the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by: Emily Johnson, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Judith Crosby (via e- mail: ) 
 Sharon School Committee (via e -mail: sc@sharonschools.net) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
