===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 17, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 136 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Justin Gomes, Esq. 
Stoneman, Chandler & Miller, LLP 
JGomes@SCMLLP.COM 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Gomes: 
 
This office received a complaint from Karl Ottmar, a member of the Wachusett Regional 
School District Committee (the “Committee”), on February 28, 2024,
1 alleging that Committee 
member Matthew Lavoie violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint 
was originally filed with the Committee on or about January 20, and you responded on behalf of 
the Committee by letter dated February 5. The complaint alleges that Mr. Lavoie deliberated 
outside of a properly noticed meeting when he filed two separate Open Meeting Law complaints 
with the Committee. 
 
Following our review, we find that Mr. Lavoie did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
when he filed two Open Meeting Law complaints with the Committee. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response, the 
request for further review, and the two Open Meeting Law complaints Mr. Lavoie filed with the 
Committee and which are alleged to have constituted improper deliberation.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be noticed and open to 
the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  
The Law defines “meeting” as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within 
the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id. For  purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id.  
 
Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed in writing with the 
body alleged to have violated the Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). The Attorney General’s Open 
Meeting Law regulations clarify that a complaint alleging that a local public body violated the 
Open Meeting Law be filed with the chair of the public body, and a copy filed with the 
municipal clerk. 940 CMR 29.05(3). Upon receiving an Open Meeting Law complaint, the chair 
of the public body “shall disseminate copies of the complaint to the members of the public 
body,” and “the public body shall meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial 
action, if appropriate; and send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial 
action taken,” sending a copy of the complaint and response to the Attorney General. 940 CMR 
29.05(3), (5).  
 
On or about January 17 and 18, Mr. Lavoie filed two Open Meeting Law complaints with 
the chair of the Committee. The complaints allege that fellow members of the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law, primarily by improperly deliberating outside of a posted 
meeting via email, telephone, and serial communication. The complaints also appear to raise 
allegations that do not implicate the Open Meeting Law; for example, allegations of ethics 
violations and allegations related to the authority of a Committee member to investigate, 
evaluate, and remove from a subcommittee another Committee member. Finally, the complaints 
provide information Mr. Lavoie thought relevant to his allegations. The Committee responded to 
each complaint, and Mr. Lavoie chose not to file either complaint with our office for further 
review.  
 
The current complaint alleges that Mr. Lavoie improperly deliberated outside of a 
meeting when he filed his prior Open Meeting Law complaints with the chair, knowing that the 
complaints would then be forwarded to the full Committee. Specifically, the complaint alleges 
that “[a]s part of his complaint[s], Member Lavoie intentionally included opinions on the 
conduct of other members and alleges violations of committee policies beyond the scope of 
whether or not the OML was violated.” 
 
We do not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law where Mr. Lavoie chose to exercise 
his r
ight to file two Open Meeting Law complaints with the Committee. The Open Meeting Law 
required that Mr. Lavoie file the complaints with the chair of the Committee and that the chair in 
turn disseminate the complaints to the full Committee. Additionally, we note that although the 
complaints raised some allegations that, even if true, would not constitute violations of the Open 
Meeting Law, we find the content of the complaints was reasonably limited to allegations that 
Mr. Lavoie believed constituted violations of the Open Meeting Law or information he believed 
was relevant to his Open Meeting Law complaints. See OML 2024-45 (finding that a board 
member did not improperly deliberate by copying the full board when he requested further 
review of his Open Meeting Law complaint).2  
 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that Mr. Lavoie did not improperly deliberate when 
he filed two Open Meeting Law complaints with the Committee. We now consider the complaint 
addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other 
complaints that may be pending with the Committee or with our office. Please feel free to 
contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Scott Runstrom, Chair, Wachusett Regional School District Committee  
(via email: scott_runstrom@wrsd.net)  
Matthew Lavoie, Member, Wachusett Regional School District Committee  
(via email: matthew_lavoie@wrsd.net) 
Randi Jacob, Executive Assistant to the Superintendent  
(via email: randi_jacob@wrsd.net) 
Karl Ottmar (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
