===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 25, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 151 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Brian W. Riley, Esq. 
KP Law 
briley@k-plaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
 
This office received a complaint from Jayme Solomon-Zissu on March 2, 2023,
1 alleging 
that the Hopedale Select Board (the “Board”), and specifically former Board member Brian 
Keyes,2 violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally 
filed with the Board on or about February 17, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter 
dated March 1. The complaint alleges that on February 16 Mr. Keyes improperly deliberated 
during a “financial summit” at which a quorum of the Board was present when he made 
comments about “the Grafton and Upton [Railroad] and their activities at 364 West St.” 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, the request for further review, and a video recording of the February 16 
financial summit.
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 Mr. Keyes was a member of the Board at the time of the events at issue here. 
3 A video recording of the February 16 financial summit may be found at 
https://townhallstreams.com/stream.php?location_id=56&id=51251 (the video recording does not have any audio 
until approximately minute 55). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
By way of background, we note that the Town has been involved in a lengthy and 
complex litigation matter regarding property located at 364 West Street in Hopedale and 
involving the Grafton & Upton Railroad Company (the “Railroad”).  
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On February 16 the Interim Town Administrator 
hosted a financial summit. Several members of the public attended the summit, as did all three 
members of the Board. The Interim Town Administrator gave a presentation to the audience 
regarding the difficult financial situation the Town faced. He then invited anyone who wished to 
ask questions or make comments. Several members of the public asked questions and made 
comments; these individuals spoke from their seats.  
 
At approximately 1 hour and 20 minutes into the summit, Board member Brian Keyes 
approached the podium and spoke for several minutes, addressing the audience. Mr. Keyes spoke 
regarding the financial situation the Town was in and noted circumstances he believed 
contributed to the situation and concerns he had. As part of his comments, Mr. Keyes mentioned 
the Town’s litigation with the Railroad noting a loss in tax revenue and an increase in legal costs 
due to the Town’s challenge to the Railroad’s proposed activities at 364 West Street. He also 
noted that even if the Town wins the latest litigation against the Railroad and therefore is allowed 
to take the property at 364 West Street, the Town would then need to pay for the land which 
would increase the tax burden on individuals. He stated that the Town needs to find a way to 
work with the Railroad and asserted that his opinion on these issues was well known. Finally, he 
concluded by stating that he was not sure what the answer to the Town’s financial problems was, 
but that “we need to change what we’re choosing to do. Because it’s not sustainable.” Another 
member of the public then spoke.    
 
Although the complaint only raises allegations regarding Mr. Keyes’ comments, we note 
that Board member Bernard Stock also spoke during the financial summit. He too spoke from the 
podium and addressed the audience. Mr. Stock spoke of the history of the Town and stated that 
the community was going to have to make some difficult decisions.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to m
embers of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The definition of “meeting” 
includes several exceptions, including attendance by a quorum of a public body at “a public or 
private gathering, including a conference or training program or a media, social or other event, so 
long as the members do not deliberate.” For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” 
is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id. Because it is clear that the Open 
Meeting Law does not prohibit a quorum of members of a public body from merely being in the 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
same place at the same time, see OML 2020-40; OML 2014-122, we must consider whether 
Board members who attended the financial summit deliberated at that event.4 
 
The Law defines “deliberation,” in relevant part, as “an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id. The Open Meeting Law does not restrict an 
individual’s right to make comments to the general public. See OML 2020-139. Rather, the Open 
Meeting Law restricts communication between or among a quorum of a public body outside of a 
properly noticed meeting. Therefore, the communicator’s intent in communicating is significant 
and must be examined. See OML 2021-66 (comments made by a public body member to a 
member of the public explaining the public body member’s reasoning and concerns did not 
constitute deliberation); OML 2020-139 (a public body member’s comments regarding public 
body business that were posted to a large Facebook group were clearly directed to members of 
the public and therefore did not constitute deliberation); see also OML 2020-19. 
 
 The complaint alleges that
  Mr. Keyes’ comments during the financial summit regarding 
the ongoing litigation between the Town and the Railroad constituted improper deliberation 
because the litigation was a matter within the Board’s jurisdiction. We disagree that Mr. Keyes’ 
comments constituted deliberation. After reviewing the video recording of the financial summit, 
we find that Mr. Keyes expressed his personal views about the Town’s financial situation and 
that his comments were clearly directed to the public and not to his fellow Board members. 
Additionally, although Mr. Keyes and Mr. Stock both spoke, they spoke ten minutes apart from 
each other and did not directly address each other’s comments. Finally, although Mr. Keyes and 
Mr. Stock spoke from the podium, they did not receive special treatment by virtue of their status 
as Board members—the Town Administrator did not address them by their titles, they were not 
specifically invited to the podium by the Town Administrator (although he made no objection 
when they approached the podium), and it was clear that any member of the public was welcome 
to speak. See OML 2023-93.  
  
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Glenda Hazard, Chair, Hopedale Select Board (via email: ghazard@hopedale-ma.gov)  
Lisa Pedroli, Hopedale Town Clerk (via email: lpedroli@hopedale-ma.gov) 
Jayme Solomon-Zissu (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
