===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
October 15, 2013 
OML2013 - 146 
Benjamin M. Coyle, Esq. 
Bacon Wilson, P.C. 
33 State Street 
Springfield, MA Oil03 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Coyle: 
This office received a complaint from Dana Manning, dated June 19, 2013. The 
complaint alleges that the Holland Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board deliberated 
outside of an open meeting on May 3, 2013 when one member of the three-member Board sent 
an email to another member of the Board that included a complaint about the Tax Collector. Ms. 
Manning filed her complaint with the Board on May 16, 2013. The Board responded to the 
complaint by letter on June 6, 2013. 
In reaching our determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Board on May 
16, 2013; the Board's June 6, 2013 response; the June 19, 2013 complaint filed with our office; 
the May 3, 2013 email at issue; an email sent from one Board member to the rest of the Board on 
May 5, 2013; and a memo delivered to the Tax Collector on May 6, 2013. We also spoke with 
Board Attorney Benjamin M. Coyle1 by telephone on July 20, 2013 and September 16, 2013. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating over email, outside of a properly posted open meeting. 
FACTS 
The Board is a three-member public body, thus two members constitute a quorum. As 
the Chief Executive Officer for the Town, the Board has jurisdiction over personnel matters. On 
1 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
May 3, 2013, Board member Lynn Arnold sent an email to Board Chair James Wettlaufer 
indicating that the complainant was in the Tax Collector's office when she was not supposed to 
be. The email also included the following: "The clerk is suddenly necessary?? I vote No at this 
late date. This is not an all consuming job.According to Attorney Coyle, Ms. Arnold was 
referring to a proposal to add a secretary to the Tax Collector's office, which had been 
introduced from the floor at prior Town Meetings and was not a proposal under consideration by 
the Board at that time. The Board Chair did not respond to this email. 
On May 5, 2013, Chair Wettlaufer sent an email to the entire Board with a memo to the 
Tax Collector attached. The memo included a reprimand of the Tax Collector for having visitors 
in his office during public hours; a header that included the line, "From: Board of Selectmen;" 
and a signature block that read. "For the Board." According to Attorney Coyle, Chair Wettlaufer 
copied the Board on his e-mail to the Tax Collector, but did not discuss it with the Board prior to 
sending. The Board then discussed the letter with the Tax Collector at its next meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law therefore requires that "|e]xcepl 
as provided in [G.L. c. 3 OA, § 21(a)], all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). "Meeting" is defined, in part, as "a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. "Deliberation" is 
defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, 
between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. 
The May 3, 2013 email sent from one Board member to another Board member, which 
contained a complaint about the Tax Collector having visitors in his office, constituted an 
improper deliberation. The communication was between a quorum of the Board's members, and 
the comments about the Tax Collector concerned a matter of public business within the Board's 
jurisdiction, as evidenced by the Board's subsequent memo to the Tax Collector, and follow up 
discussion during a meeting, regarding the subject. See OML 2013-29; OML 2013-30. 
The Board maintains that when the Board member sent the email on May 3, 2013, she 
was not acting in her capacity as a member of the Board, but in her capacity as an individual and 
resident of the Town. Because the sender was a member of a public body and her email 
expressed an opinion on matters within the Board's jurisdiction to a quorum of that body's 
members, it constituted deliberation. Additionally, the Board acted on the opinion expressed in 
the email prior to discussing the matter during a properly posted open meeting. We therefore 
find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
Ms. Arnold's May 3, 2013 email also included a remark about voting against a 
clerk/secretary for the Tax Collector. It appears that this remark was merely commentary on a 
matter considered at previous Town Meetings, rather than discussion of any matter under 
consideration by the Board. We therefore find that it was not deliberation. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law because the May 3, 2013 email 
constituted an improper deliberation outside of an open meeting. We order the Board's 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution the Board that a 
similar future violation may be considered evidence of an intentional violation of the law. 
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this 
determination, please contact our office at (617) 963-2540. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Holland Board of Selectmen 
Dana Manning 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3 