===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
January 30, 2025  
  
OML 2025 – 9 
  
VIA EMAIL  
 
Michelle Hanly, CPRP  
Director of Elder Services  
Quincy Council on Aging  
City of Quincy Kennedy Center  
440 East Squantum Street  
Quincy, MA 02171  
  
mhanly@quincyma.gov 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Director Hanly:  
 
This office received a complaint from Deborah Riley on December 21, 2024, alleging 
that the Quincy Council on Aging Board of Directors (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 3 0A,  §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on October 25.1  
You responded on behalf of the Board via email on January 15, 2025.2  The complaint alleges 
that the Board failed to post notice of its September 26 meeting.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
failed to timely post notice of its September 26 meeting.  In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s 
request for further review.  We also reviewed the notice of the September 26 meeting.  Finally, 
we reviewed an email and attachments received from the complainant on January 16, 2025. 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2024. 
2 Your response of January 15, 2025, is consistent with the substance of an email sent by City Clerk Nicole L. 
Crispo on December 18.  The Board is reminded that unless an extension of time has been granted, a public body 
must, within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, meet to review the complaint, respond 
to the complainant, send a copy of the complaint to the Attorney General’s Office and notify the Attorney General’s 
Office of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, §23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5), (6).  We caution the Board that it 
must respond timely to any complaints in the future, and that the failure to timely respond to a complaint is it self a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
  
We find the facts as follows.  The C ity of Quincy has adopted its municipal website, 
http://www.quincyma.gov, as the official posting location for notices of local public body 
meetings.  On September 24, the Board scheduled a meeting to take place on September 26 at 
10:00 a.m.  At 12:48 p.m. on September 24, notice of the meeting was forwarded to five city 
staff members, including a PC Technician within the Information Technology department (“IT”), 
so that it could be posted.  Upon receipt of the notice, IT had questions regarding where to post 
the notice.  Once the questions were answered, notice was posted on the city’s municipal 
website.
3  The Board met on the morning of September 26, as scheduled.4   
 
DISCUSSION 
  
Pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, “[e]xcept in an emergency ... a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  For meetings of a local public body, unless an 
alternative posting method has been adopted, the notice must be filed with the municipal clerk 
and posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on the municipal 
building in which the clerk’s office is located.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c);  940 CMR 29.03(2).  The 
Law allows for alternative methods of posting meeting notices as prescribed by the Attorney 
General.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c).  The Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations allow the 
Chief Executive Officer of a municipality to adopt the municipality’s website as the official 
posting location for meeting notices.  See 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b).  Once the municipal website 
has been adopted, “the municipal clerk ... shall file with the Attorney General written notice of 
adoption of the alternative method, including the website address where applicable, and any 
change thereto, and the most current notice posting method on file with the Attorney General 
shall be consistently used.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(c).  The Attorney General’s Division of Open 
Government maintains on its website a list of all municipalities with information on the notice 
posting method for each. 
 
As of September, the City of Quincy’s official posting location was its municipal 
website.  Therefore, the Board was required to post notice of the September 26 meeting to the 
City’s website 48 hours prior to the meeting, i.e., by 10:00 a.m. on September 24.  Because the 
notice was sent to IT for posting at 12:48 p.m. on September 24, it necessarily was not posted to 
the municipal website 48 hours prior to the meeting.  Therefore, we find that the Board violated 
the Open Meeting Law.  We note the Board’s explanation that IT was unsure of the proper 
posting location, thereby delaying posting of the meeting.  However, even if IT had posted the 
notice immediately upon receipt, it would not have been posted timely.  In any event, it is 
ultimately the responsibility of the public body to comply with the Open Meeting Law, even if it 
often relies on staff to perform certain administrative tasks, such as posting meeting notices.  See 
 
3 Notice of the September 26 meeting was posted to 
https://www.quincyma.gov/government/agendas___minutes/council_on_aging.php.   The complainant maintains that 
the notice of the September 26 meeting was not posted to the City’s website until after October 2.   We need not 
resolve this factual dispute.  Either way, the notice was not timely posted, in violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
4 Minutes do not reflect whether the meeting started at the scheduled time but do indicate that the meeting adjourned 
at 11:45 a.m.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
OML Declination 8-24-23 (Gardner City Clerk); OML Declination 5-24-21 (Everett City Clerk); 
OML Declination 4-13-20 (Town of Plymouth).5  
 
To the extent that the complaint alleges that the Board failed to post notice of meetings 
that took place prior to September, including meetings held in April and May, and that it 
cancelled its June meeting, we decline to review these allegations.  Pursuant to the Open Meeting 
Law, a complaint must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the alleged violation.  
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b).  If the alleged violation could not have been known at the time it occurred, 
then the complaint must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the date on which the 
alleged violation could reasonably have been discovered.  940 CMR 29.05(4).  The complainant 
reasonably could have discovered the alleged failure to post notice of the April and May 
meetings on June 27, at the latest, as it was on or before June 27 that the complainant learned 
that meetings were held on the fourth Thursday of each month.  Because the complaint was filed 
on October 25, it was untimely as to allegations that the April and May meetings were not 
noticed in compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  We also decline to review any allegation 
that the Board violated the Law when it cancelled its June meeting due to a lack of quorum.  A 
public body may cancel a meeting, including for failure to reach a quorum, and the Open 
Meeting Law does not require advance notice of the cancellation.  See OML 2012-49. 
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it failed to timely post notice of its September 26 meeting.  We order the Board’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a 
determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
Matt
hew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
  
cc: Deborah Riley (via email: )  
Quincy City Clerk (via email: ncrispo@quincyma.gov) 
  
 
5 All previous determinations and declinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General ’s 
website: https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
  
  
 