===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
June 4, 2013 
OML 2013 — 75 
David J. Rushford 
City Clerk 
City Hall, Room 206 
455 Main St. 
Worcester, MA 01608 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Rushford: 
This office received two Open Meeting Law complaints from Nicole Apostola and Kevin 
Ksen, respectively, both dated September 20, 2012, alleging that the Worcester City Council (the 
"Council") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Ms. Apostola's complaint 
alleges that the Council discussed an item during its June 26, 2012 meeting that was reasonably 
anticipated by the Chair 48 hours before the meeting, but was not included in the Council's 
meeting notice. The complaint was filed with the Council on July 11, 2012. The Council 
responded by letter dated November 2, 2012. Mr. Ksen's complaint alleges that on the morning 
prior to the Council's June 26, 2012 meeting, the Mayor's office sent an email to the entire 
Council regarding a proposed panhandling resolution, asking the Councilors if they "wish to sign 
onto this for tonight." The complaint was filed with the Council on July 11, 2012. The Council 
responded by letter dated November 26, 2012. 
Following our review, we find that a quorum of the Council did not deliberate on a 
proposed resolution, called an order, over email ahead of its June 26, 2012 meeting. 
Furthermore, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law by voting on the 
order at its June 26, 2012 meeting, even though it was not listed in the meeting's notice. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the two July 11, 2012 complaints filed with the 
Council; the September 20, 2012 complaints filed with our office; an October 22, 2012 letter 
from the Worcester City Solicitor to the City Manager; and the Council's November 26, 2012 
response to the complaint. Finally, we interviewed by telephone the Mayor's Chief Secretary, 
Michael Lanava, on January 3, 2013. 
0 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
The Council is a public body consisting of eleven Councilors. The Mayor is a member, 
and Chair, of the Council. The notice for the Council's June 26, 2012 meeting listed 14 
anticipated topics for discussion, including "New Business Under Suspension of Rules." The 
notice did not include a topic regarding panhandling. 
On the morning of June 26, 2012, Michael Lanava, the Mayor's Chief Secretary, sent an 
email to the members of the Council. Mr. Lanava is not a member of the Council. The subject 
of the email was "panhandling," and Mr. Lanava wrote: "[t]he Mayor has asked that I forward 
you the language below. Please indicate by email if you wish to sign onto this for tonight. Please 
let me know by 4PM if possible." The language included in the email read: "Request City 
Manager develop a comprehensive resolution to the significant public safety issues from 
standouts and panhandling on medians, exit ramps, intersections, and within public rights of way 
and present this to City Council for further action at the July 17 City Council Meeting." Seven 
Council members replied to Mr. Lanava regarding his email. None of the recipients "replied to 
all." Two more Council members signed on to the order on the floor during the June 26, 2012 
Council meeting. 
According to a letter from the City Solicitor, dated October 22, 2012, and drafted in 
response to the two complaints, the Mayor "advised me that he decided to place [the panhandling 
order] before the city council 'under suspension' of the rules on June 26 because he was aware 
that the city council would [be] meeting only monthly in July and August (the next meeting was 
three weeks away, July 17) and that he did not want to wait until then to initiate a request to the 
city manager for a report into what appeared to be a public safety issue." According to Mr. 
Lanava, the Mayor decided during the weekend prior to the June 26, 2012 meeting to submit an 
order to the Council requesting a report from the City Manager regarding panhandling, following 
a sudden, significant increase in the presence of people engaging in the activity within the City. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not 
include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other 
procedural meeting [material] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed 
at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
Mr. Ksen's complaint alleges that the Council deliberated over email when a member of 
the Mayor's staff sent an email on the Mayor's behalf to the entire membership of the Council. 
Generally, sending an email with proposed language for an order to be considered at an 
upcoming meeting is not deliberation because it constitutes distribution of "reports or documents 
that may be discussed at a meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Although this email additionally asked 
Council members to "[p]lease indicate by email if you wish to sign onto this for tonight," thereby 
2 
===PAGE 3===
soliciting the opinions of the members as to whether or not they supported the order, we find 
there was no deliberation because there was no communication between or among a quorum of 
the Council. The email was sent by a person who was not a member of the Council, and the 
councilors responded to him individually. Had the Mayor sent the email himself, or used his 
secretary as a conduit for serial deliberation between members, the email would have been a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2013-27; OML 2012-84.1  In the present 
instance, however, while the email was sent on the Mayor's behalf, we do not find sufficient 
evidence that he communicated with a quorum of the Council's members about the issue. 
We caution that responses to the type of request sent by Mr. Lanava, if they were to reach 
a quorum of a body's members, would violate the Open Meeting Law. Mr. Lanava's email 
contained a request for the opinions of members, namely whether they wished to "sign onto" the 
order, in effect expressing their support for the measure. This type of poll over email is 
analogous to the impermissible practice of a member asking the other members for their votes 
over email. See OML 2011-35. Furthermore, while it did not occur here, this type of open-
ended request could easily lead to an inadvertent or intentional reply to all recipients containing a 
public body members' opinion on the matter under review. 
City Solicitor David Moore writes in his October 22, 2012 memorandum to the City 
Manager that "[c]o-sponsoring items is a centuries-old legislative practice. On its face there is 
no attempt to solicit opinions or provoke a series of emails discussing the merits of the order. 
There is only an attempt to offer councilors the opportunity to co-sponsor the introduction of an 
item to the legislative body." While we acknowledge that this practice has been in effect for 
many years, to the extent that such practice reaches a quorum of a body's members, it does not 
comply with the current Open Meeting Law. If the Council wishes to announce the sponsors of 
an order at the time it is introduced, an individual who is not part of the Council, rather than a 
Councilor, may make the request for sponsorship. For example, the City Clerk or a Council 
administrator could send an email, blind carbon copying the Council members, attaching a 
specific piece of legislation and requesting sponsorships. That same staff person could then 
compile the sponsorships, and announce the result during a meeting. The results should not be 
made public prior to the meeting, however, including in a publicly-posted meeting notice. While 
the change is admittedly minor, it would enable the Council to compile sponsorship information 
without members conducting an improper poll outside of a meeting (which is deliberation). See 
OML 2011-35. Alternatively, a Council member who introduces an order can request sponsors 
during a meeting, or at a prior meeting before the order is introduced. 
We next address Ms. Apostola's complaint, which alleges that the Council discussed a 
topic during its June 26, 2012 meeting that was reasonably anticipated by the Chair 48 hours 
before the meeting, but was not included in the Council's meeting notice. The Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b), states in relevant part that, "[e]xcept in an emergency, in addition to 
any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/auo/openmeeting.  
3 
===PAGE 4===
hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays... Notice shall be 
printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time and place of 
such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting." Any topic for discussion that is reasonably anticipated by the chair of the public body 
48 hours in advance of a meeting must be listed in a meeting notice. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Here, 
it appears that the Mayor did not anticipate introducing the panhandling order until the weekend 
prior to the June 26, 2012 meeting — fewer than 48 hours in advance, excluding Saturdays and 
Sundays. Therefore, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
considering a topic that was not listed on the meeting notice. However, our office encourages 
public bodies to update their meeting notices or postpone discussion of topics that arise fewer 
than 48 hours before a meeting, so that members of the public may be given advance notice of 
agenda items. See OML 2012-19; OML 2012-3. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that a quorum of the Council did not deliberate on a proposed order over email 
ahead of its June 26, 2012 meeting. Furthermore, we find that the Council did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law by voting on the order at its June 26, 2012 meeting, even though it was not 
listed in the meeting's notice. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during this investigation, and 
now consider this matter closed. Please contact me if you have any questions regarding this 
letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 David Moore, City Solicitor 
Worcester City Council 
Nicole Apostola 
Kevin Ksen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 