===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
November 30, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 176 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Alex Castro, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite 1F 
Millis, MA 02054 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Castro: 
This office received a complaint from Bruce Forcier on August 16, 2021, alleging that the 
South Hadley Selectboard (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 5, and you responded on behalf of the 
Board by letter dated November 12.1, 2 In his complaint, Mr. Forcier alleges that Board members 
deliberated via text message during a February 2 Board meeting.3 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We reviewed the notice and minutes 
of the Board’s February 2 meeting. We also reviewed a public records request sent by Mr. 
Forcier to the Board on February 3, and the Board’s response, which reached Mr. Forcier on 
April 7, after Attorney Alex Castro first sent the response to a different email address on 
February 19.4 We reviewed copies of the text messages Mr. Forcier received in response to his 
public records request. We communicated by email with Mr. Forcier on several occasions in 
September, October and November of 2021. Finally, we communicated with Attorney Castro by 
email on several occasions in October and November of 2021 and by phone on November 10. 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 We remind the Board of its obligation to meet to review and respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 
business days of receipt, or within the time allotted pursuant to an extension granted by our office. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
3 Mr. Forcier was a member of the Board at the time of the February 2 meeting.  
4 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body; therefore, three 
members constitute a quorum. On February 2, the Board met virtually from 7:00 p.m. to 
8:53 p.m. and discussed a variety of topics. Present were Chair Jeff Cyr, Vice Chair Sarah 
Etelman, Member Chris Geraghty, Member Bruce Forcier, Member Andrea Miles, and former 
Town Administrator Michael Sullivan.  
 During the February 2 meeting, Chair Cyr received one text message from the Town 
Administrator. At 7:46 p.m., Mr. Sullivan sent a text to Chair Cyr explaining a procedural matter 
to Chair Cyr. Mr. Sullivan and Chair Cyr further discussed this matter via a phone call on the 
morning after the meeting. 
 Three Board members exchanged text messages during the meeting, in two sperate one-
on-one conversations. Between 8:26 p.m. and 8:53 p.m., Chair Cyr and Vice Chair Etelman 
exchanged several text messages, commenting on the length of the meeting, asking where 
Member Forcier was, and complimenting Member Etelman on a question she had asked during 
the meeting. At 8:46 p.m. Chair Cyr and Member Miles exchanged a few text messages 
regarding the South Hadley-Easthampton-Granby Veteran Service Agent working weekend 
hours.  
DISCUSSION 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law states, in relevant part, that “[e]xcept in an 
emergency, . . . a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Except when 
convened in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.” G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(a).  
 A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” 
broadly as any “oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, 
between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id. 
A “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id. A one-way 
communication from one public body member to a quorum on matters within the body’s 
jurisdiction constitutes deliberation for purposes of the Open Meeting Law, even if no other 
public body member responds. See OML 2016-104; OML 2015-33; OML 2012-73.5 The Open 
Meeting Law does not carve out an exception to the definition of “deliberation” for discussions 
that do not result in a decision or vote. See OML 2020-93. A public body may not engage in 
serial communication whereby a quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner 
outside of a meeting on a subject within the public body’s jurisdiction. See OML 2015-3; 
McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008). 
 
5 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 Here, none of the text conversations we reviewed surrounding the February 2 meeting 
contained or reached a quorum of the Board, which is three members. In all cases, the Board 
members engaged in one-on-one text exchanges during the February 2 meeting. In addition, we 
find no evidence of serial deliberation among a quorum of the Board, because Chair Cyr did not 
share the substance of his communications with either Vice Chair Etelman or Member Miles 
with any other member. Finally, Chair Cyr’s communications with the Town Administrator 
could not constitute deliberation because the Town Administrator is not a member of the Board.6 
Because a quorum of the Board did not communicate on a matter within the Board’s jurisdiction, 
either contemporaneously or serially, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  
 Finally, we note that we discourage electronic messaging during a meeting by less than a 
quorum of the public body’s members. Such communications among less than a quorum, while 
not prohibited by the Open Meeting Law, can create the appearance of impropriety if those 
electronic communications are not shared with members of the public attending the meeting, as 
was the case here.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
cc: Bruce Forcier (via e-mail: ) 
 South Hadley Selectboard c/o Town Clerk Carlene Hamlin (via e-mail: 
 ) 
 
 
6 The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and individuals acting as public body members. See G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The Law defines “public body” as “a multiple-member board, commission, committee or 
subcommittee ... however created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public 
purpose[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Town Administrator is an individual employee of the Town of South Hadley, not 
a member of a public body. As such, the Town Administrator is not subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML 
Declination 12-18-15 (Lawrence City Clerk); OML Declination 11-2-15 (Massachusetts Division of Marine 
Fisheries); OML Declination 5-16-19 (Bourne Town Clerk). 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 