===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
       March 24, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 46 
 
 
Sherborn Select Board 
 c/o Chair Jeffrey Waldron 
19 Washington Street 
Sherborn, Massachusetts 01770 
 
By email only: jwaldron@sherbornma.org 
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Waldron: 
 
This office received a complaint from Timothy O’Leary on September 23, 2022, alleging 
that the Sherborn Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about August 24, 2022, and you 
responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated September 9, 2022.1  The 
complaint alleges that a portion of the Board meeting held on July 28 was inaccessible to certain 
individuals, including the final candidates being interviewed for the position of Town 
Administrator. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the way 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the 
Board’s supplemental response.  We also reviewed the notices and minutes of the Board 
meetings held on July 28, August 4, and August 10, as well as video recordings of all three 
meetings.
2  Finally, we spoke with the complainant by telephone on October 14. 
 
 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2022. 
2 A video recording of the Board meeting held on July 28 is available at: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vbWc cAcTY8; a video recording of the Board meeting held on August 4 is 
available at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C3T7oAGxL8Q; and a video recording of the Board meeting held 
on August 10 is available at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tayaJEX3xmM .  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The complainant was a final candidate for the Town 
Administrator position in the Town of Sherborn. 
 
On July 26 at 12:01 P.M., the Board posted notice for a virtual meeting to be held on July 
28 at 6:15 P.M. and included information necessary to access the meeting, including a link to the 
Zoom meeting, several telephone numbers the public could use to dial into the meeting, and the 
Webinar ID number required to log into the meeting.  The notice listed five topics, including 
“Interview of Town Administrator Finalists” and “Consideration of Motion for Conditional Offer 
of Employment – Town Administrator.”  The names of the three finalists were included on the 
notice with specific times that each candidate was to be interviewed, i.e., William Chenard at 
6:30 P.M., Jeremy Marsette at 7:45 P.M., and Timothy O’Leary at 9:00 P.M. 
 
The July 28 meeting was held as planned.  After calling the meeting to order, the Board 
approved a payroll warrant and two bond notes.  Chair Jeffrey Waldron then gave an overview of 
the Town Administrator Search Committee, the search process, and the preliminary interviews 
conducted by the Search Committee.  The Board then recognized the first candidate, William 
Chenard, as present and Chair Waldron stated that “we’re going to ask the candidates to be in the 
waiting room until their interview if that is ok with you?”  Mr. Chenard gave a thumbs up.  The 
Board heard from and asked questions of Mr. Chenard for approximately one hour.  At the 
conclusion of the first interview, the other two candidates were not yet present, and the Board 
recessed for about ten minutes.  The Board then admitted the second candidate, Jeremy Marsette, 
into the meeting.  Chair Waldron explained that once the interview was complete, Mr. Marsette 
would be placed back into the waiting room.  The Board heard from and asked questions of Mr. 
Marsette over the next hour.  At the conclusion of the second interview, the Board recessed for 
about five minutes.  Finally, the Board heard from and asked questions of the third candidate, 
Timothy O’Leary, for approximately one hour.  The Board thanked Mr. O’Leary and then 
discussed the three candidates for the next 55 minutes.  All three candidates remained in the 
waiting room and were not able to follow the Board’s discussions.  Also in the waiting room 
during the Board’s discussions was a consultant hired to assist the town in choosing a new Town 
Administrator, although the consultant was present during all three interviews.  Chair Waldron 
specifically stated that the consultant was “in the waiting room deliberately.”  The consultant 
was later re-admitted into the meeting around 10:45 P.M. to discuss the Board’s request for 
background checks of the candidates.  Ultimately, the Board decided to conduct in-person 
interviews with all three candidates. 
 
The Board held a meeting on August 4 in Sherborn Town Hall and interviewed Jeremy 
Marsette and Timothy O’Leary.  Each candidate remained outside of the meeting room during 
the other candidate’s interview.
3  The Board decided not to discuss the candidates further until 
after the final candidate was interviewed.   
 
 
3 We note that the complainant filed a subsequent Open Meeting Law complaint with the Board on or about 
September 29.  That complaint alleged that the Board failed to properly respond to the Open Meeting Law complaint 
at issue here and did not raise any issues with respect to the accessibility of the Board meeting held on August 4.  
The complaint was not filed with the Attorney General and we therefore do not formally review it.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The Board held a meeting on August 10 in Sherborn Town Hall and interviewed the third 
and final candidate, William Chenard.  The Board then discussed each of the candidates for 
approximately 40 minutes with each member sharing their thoughts on the strengths and 
weaknesses of each candidate.  Board member George Morrill made a motion “to make a 
conditional offer of employment to Jeremy T. Marsette for the position of Sherborn Town 
Administrator,” which  offer was conditioned on a satisfactory background review and 
investigation and the successful negotiation of the terms of appointment by the Board.  The 
motion was approved by majority vote. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when meeting in executive session, all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, §20(a).  In order to be open to the 
public, a meeting must be accessible to the public for the duration of the meeting.  See G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(a); OML 2021-104; OML 2014-3.4  Access to a meeting must include the opportunity 
to be physically present, as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the 
public body.  See OML 2017-135; OML 2015-38; OML 2014-3; OML 2013-189.    
 
The Open Meeting Law prohibits a public body from excluding individuals – even 
interview candidates – from the public portion of a meeting.  However, if candidates are asked if 
they are willing to leave the room during other candidate’s interviews and voluntarily agree, this 
would not be a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2023-15; OML 2018-138.  Here, 
each candidate arrived at the July 28 meeting shortly before his allotted interview time and the 
candidate was placed in a virtual waiting room prior to his respective interview.  The complaint 
does not allege that this practice violated the Open Meeting Law.
5  We understand and 
appreciate that in asking candidates to leave the meeting room during the interview of other 
candidates, a public body is trying to create a fair interview process.  Nevertheless, we remind 
the Board that it may request, but not direct, that candidates remain outside the meeting room 
during other candidate’s interviews.  See OML 2023-15.   
 
In addition, we find that the exclusion of the candidates and the consultant from that 
portion of the July 28 meeting after the interviews had concluded, violated the Open Meeting 
Law.  Here, the Board placed the three candidates and the consultant in the virtual waiting room 
after all three interviews had concluded.  While in the waiting room, these individuals were not 
able to follow in real time the Board’s discussions of the candidates, which lasted almost one 
hour.  There is no more basic requirement of the Open Meeting Law than that meetings be open 
to the public.  When a public body provides alternative means of public access, as the Board did 
here when it met via Zoom, the public must be able to clearly follow the proceedings of the 
public body while those activities are occurring.  See March 12, 2020, Executive Order 
Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law at Section (1); see also Chapter 107 of 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
5 In his request for further review, the complainant acknowledged that he “did voluntarily absent” himself during the 
interview of the other applicants. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
the Acts of 2022 (extending provisions until March 31, 2023).  By excluding the candidates and 
the consultant from hearing the Board’s discussions during the July 28 meeting, the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by denying the candidates and the consultant access to the July 
28 meeting.  See 2018-25.
 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
denying certain individuals access to a portion of its July 28 meeting.  We order the Board’s 
immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future 
violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: 
  Timothy O’Leary – By email only:  
 Christopher J. Petrini, Esq. – By email only: cpetrini@petrinilaw.com  
Sherborn Town Clerk – By email only: jmorris@sherbornma.org 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
