===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
February 16, 2016 
OML 2016-20 
John Manning, Chair 
Rowley Board of Water Commissioners 
401 Central Street, P.O. Box 29 
Rowley, MA 01969 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Manning: 
This office received two related complaints from G. Robert Merry alleging that the 
Rowley Board of Water Commissioners (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. Both complaints were filed with the Board on September 23, 2015, and the 
Board responded to both by letter dated October 8, 2015. The first complaint was filed with our 
office on October 13, 2015, and the second complaint was filed with our office on October 26, 
2015. In his complaints, Mr. Merry alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by; (i) 
deliberating outside of a noticed meeting; and (ii) holding an executive session without a proper 
statutory purpose. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not deliberate outside of a noticed 
meeting. Further, we find that the Board had a valid basis for the executive session at issue, 
however it violated the Open Meeting Law by citing the incorrect statutory purpose for that 
executive session. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the complaints; the Board's 
response; and the requests for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed, in camera, 
the draft minutes of an executive session held by the Board on August 25, 2015. Finally, we 
interviewed former Board Chair Timothy Toomey by telephone on January 11, 2016. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On August 12, 2015, the Rowley Water Superintendent 
filed a complaint against the Board. Upon receiving this complaint, then-Board Chair Timothy 
Toomey drafted a letter, dated August 17, 2015, responding on behalf of the Board. Chair 
Toomey took this action without conferring with any other Board members. 
The Board subsequently posted notice for a meeting to take place on August 25, 2015. 
Among the anticipated discussion topics listed on the notice was an anticipated executive 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
session, "to discuss and take necessary action relative to potential litigation and legal 
strategy/representation of the board relative to allegations (discrimination/hostile work 
environment) made by a water department employee against two board members." The Board 
held its August 25, 2015 meeting as planned. During the meeting. Chair Toomey made a motion 
to enter executive session and gave the identical reason that was listed on the meeting notice. 
The Board then voted to enter executive session. The minutes of this executive session have not 
been released and we therefore do not recount their contents in detail. We note, however, that 
during the executive session, the Board discussed Chair Toomey's August 17, 2015 response to 
the complaint and voted to approve its contents. 
DISCUSSION 
I. We Find No Evidence that the Board Deliberated Outside of a Properly Noticed 
MeetinR. 
A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" 
as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. 
Here, the complaint alleges that Chair Toomey's August 17, 2015 letter to Ms. Wiser 
violated the Open Meeting Law. Chair Toomey stated to our office that he prepared the letter at 
issue without any input from his fellow Board members. Indeed, during the Board's August 25, 
2015 executive session, Chair Toomey stated that he had prepared the August 17, 2015 letter 
alone, and the Board voted to approve the contents of the letter. In the absence of evidence to 
the contrary, we credit Chair Toomey's statement that the letter did not reflect discussion 
between or among a quorum of the Board members, and we find that the Board did not deliberate 
outside of a meeting and therefore did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this regard. See 
G.L. c. 3OA, § 18; OML 2013-133; OML 2011-40; OML 2011-52. 
II. The August 25, 2015 Discussion was Appropriate for Executive Session. 
However, the Board Cited the Incorrect Statutory Purpose for this Discussion. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. One permissible reason for an executive session is, "[t]o discuss the reputation, 
character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an 
individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, 
a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). 
Another purpose allows a public body to enter into executive session to, "discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) ("Pui-pose 3"). 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Board lacked a proper purpose for its August 25, 
2015 executive session. Specifically, the complaint contends that the Board should not have 
entered executive session on August 25, 2015 because there was no litigation pending at the 
time. It is true that, in order to enter a Purpose 3 executive session, litigation must be pending or 
2 
===PAGE 3===
clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. See Ferryman v, Sch. 
Comm. of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983). As this was not the case here, it was 
improper for the Board to rely upon this purpose as the basis for its executive session. However, 
the discussion that occurred was permissible under another statutory purpose. Purpose 1, because 
the Board used the executive session at issue to discuss charges against public officials—that is, 
the two Board members who were the subject of the Water Superintendent's complaint. See 
OML 2011-32.1 While we therefore conclude that the Board had a valid statutory basis for 
holding this discussion in executive session, the Board failed to cite the correct statutory puipose 
for the executive session, either on the meeting notice or in the verbal statement made during the 
meeting. Instead of describing it as a discussion of complaints or charges against public 
officials, the Board described this as a discussion of a litigation matter. This failure violated the 
Open Meeting Law, as it did not give the public proper notice of what would be discussed behind 
closed doors. See OML 2015-99. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution 
that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Because 
the Board failed to follow proper procedure in convening its August 25, 2015 executive session, 
the Board may not rely upon the Open Meeting Law as the basis for continuing to withhold the 
minutes of that executive session. However, attorney-client privilege or one or more exemptions 
under the Public Record Law may allow the Board to withhold the minutes, or a portion thereof, 
from disclosure. See G.L. c. 3 OA, § 22(f) (minutes of an executive session may be withheld 
from disclosure to the public as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of an 
executive session, provided that the executive session was held in compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law). 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: G. Robert Merry 
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 