===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
May 10, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 75  
 
 
Joseph T. Bartulis, Jr., Esq. 
Fletcher Tilton P.C. 
370 Main Street, 12
th Floor 
Worcester, MA 01068 
 
By email only: Jbartulis@fletchertilton.com  
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Bartulis: 
 
This office received a complaint from Matthew Lavoie on November 30, 2022, alleging 
that the Wachusett Regional School District Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on 
or about October 12, 2022, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated 
October 28, 2022.1  The complaint alleges that the Committee convened in executive session 
without including that topic on the notice for the meeting held on October 11.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
in the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review.  We also reviewed the notice and open session minutes of the Committee meetings held 
on October 11 and October 24, as well as video recordings of both meetings.
2   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2022. 
2 Video recordings of the Committee meetings held on October 11 and October 24 can be found at 
https://holdentv.com/3825-2/. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The complainant is a member of the Committee.  The 
Committee duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on October 11 at 7:00 P.M.  The notice 
included fifteen topics, one of which was Superintendent’s Report.  The notice then listed several 
specific item descriptions that further advised the public of the topics to be discussed under 
Superintendent’s Report, including “Motion: To appoint Michelle Grise as Director of Business 
and Finance pending contract negotiations.”   
 
The October 11 meeting was held as planned.  During the meeting, the Committee heard 
from Michelle Grise who introduced herself and discussed her professional background.   
Superintendent James Reilly, as well as two Committee members, voiced their support for the 
hiring of Ms. Grise to the position of Director of Business and Finance.  The Committee then 
voted to “appoint” Ms. Grise as Director of Business and Finance.   
 
After discussing the remaining open session topics, Committee Chair Sherrie Haber 
explained that, where the Committee had earlier voted to hire Ms. Grise, the “Superintendent has 
contract terms to be considered and to be discussed in Executive Session.”  The complainant 
expressed his concerns that an executive session topic was not included on the notice.  Although 
Chair Haber confirmed that an executive session was not specifically on the notice, she 
suggested “that the topic on the agenda was hiring of a new Business & Finance Director and 
this is part of hiring.”  Committee member Karl Ottmar then moved to adjourn into executive 
session “not to return to public session for the purpose of contract discussion of the Director of 
Business & Finance.”  The Committee voted by majority vote to convene in executive session.   
 
During a meeting held on October 24, the Committee reviewed and briefly discussed the 
Open Meeting Law complaint at issue here.  Chair Sherrie Haber made, in part, the following 
statement: “I can tell you with certainty, that in my agenda meeting with Dr. Reilly and upon the 
meeting posting the district did not have contract information ready for addition to the agenda . . 
. .  I can tell you that I received a call from Dr. Reilly at 12:11 pm on the day of the meeting 
asking that we have an executive session assuming the appointment of the Business and Finance 
director was confirmed for the purpose of discussing the contract.” 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Id.  The list of topics 
shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35; OML 2013-39.
3   
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee convened in executive session during the 
October 11 meeting without that topic being listed on the notice.  Here, the notice for the 
October 11 meeting only listed an open session topic for the appointment of Michelle Grise as 
Director of Business and Finance.  Yet, the Committee later convened in executive session to 
discuss contract terms with respect to the position of Director of Business and Finance, even 
though the notice did not include any executive session topic.  The Open Meeting Law requires 
that notices include a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b) (emphasis added).  However, a public body may discuss a topic not listed 
on a meeting notice if the topic was not reasonably anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance 
of the meeting.  See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87.  Generally, a public body’s discussion of 
contract terms that follows a vote to hire a particular individual would be a reasonably 
anticipated topic for executive session such that any discussions in executive session pertaining 
to contract negotiations must be included on the notice.  Here, however, in response to the 
complaint, Chair Haber disputes that she anticipated that the Committee would need to discuss 
contract terms in executive session during the October 11 meeting.  Specifically, she stated that 
when she met with the Superintendent to discuss possible topics to include on the notice for the 
October 11 meeting, “the district did not have contract information ready for addition to the 
agenda.”  Rather, it was not until the day of the meeting that possible contract terms were ready 
for discussion.  As such, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law when 
it convened in executive session to discuss contract negotiations on October 11 even though that 
topic was not included on the notice because the Chair did not reasonably anticipate the need for 
an executive session 48 hours prior to the meeting. 
 
A public body is encouraged to amend its meeting notice to include an unanticipated 
topic and provide the public with as much notice as possible of the topics to be discussed during 
a meeting.  While a public body may consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the 
notice if it was not reasonably anticipated at least 48 hours before the meeting, we encourage 
public bodies to postpone discussion of topics that were not listed in the meeting notice until the 
topic may be included in a meeting notice, unless the circumstances demand immediate action by 
the public body.  See OML 2013-197; OML 2011-23.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  We now consider the 
complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address 
any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Committee.  Please feel free to 
contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
cc:   Matthew Lavoie – By email only:  
Wachusett Regional School District Committee c/o Chair Sherrie Haber – By email only: 
sherrie_haber@wrsd.net 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
