===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
        
 
December 28, 2023 
 
OML 2023 - 236 
 
 
Easthampton School Committee  
 c/o Cynthia Kwiecinski, Chair 
50 Payson Avenue, 2
nd Floor 
Easthampton, MA 01027 
 
By email only: ckwiecinski@epsd.us  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Kwiecinski: 
 
This office received a complaint from Debora Lusnia on June 27, 2023, alleging that the 
Easthampton School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on April 17, and you 
responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated April 26.  The complaint 
alleges that the Committee convened in executive session for an improper purpose on March 30. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee met in executive session for a proper 
purpose on March 30.  However, although we find that the executive session was proper, we find 
that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to first convene in open session 
prior to the executive session.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review.  In addition, we reviewed the open session minutes of the Committee 
meeting held on February 13, the notice and open and executive session minutes of the 
Committee meeting held on March 23, and the notice and executive session minutes of the 
Committee meeting held on March 30.   
 
 
 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2023. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  During a meeting held on February 13, the Committee 
received the names of the three finalists for Superintendent that had been selected by the 
Superintendent Search Committee.  One of the final candidates was Dr. Vito Perrone. 
 
During a meeting held on March 23, the Committee interviewed all three finalists in open 
session.  After receiving public comment, the Committee discussed the candidates.  Committee 
member Marin Goldstein then made a motion to offer the Superintendent position to Dr. Perrone 
pending successful contract negotiations, which motion was approved by majority vote.  The 
Committee then convened in executive session and discussed contract terms to offer Dr. Perrone.  
The Committee has released the minutes of the March 23 executive session.  The Committee 
unanimously voted to offer Dr. Perrone a three-year contract with a starting salary of $151,000.  
The Committee contacted Dr. Perrone that evening to offer him the position, which he accepted. 
 
At some point between March 23 and the Committee’s next meeting on March 30, Dr. 
Perrone sent an email to the Committee Chair and Committee Executive Assistant, both of whom 
are women, suggesting alternate contract terms than the ones originally offered on March 23, 
including a request for additional vacation days and an increase in salary.  He began the email 
with the term “Ladies.” 
 
The Committee posted notice of a meeting to be held remotely on March 30 at 6 P.M.  
The notice included only one topic, an “Executive Session Pursuant to MGL c 30A s 21 (a) (2) to 
conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct 
collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.”
2  The notice 
did not include a link to the Zoom meeting, any telephone numbers the public could use to dial 
into the meeting, or the Webinar ID number required to log into the meeting. 
 
The March 30 meeting was held as planned and all Committee members participated 
remotely.  The Committee did not first convene in open session but rather voted by roll call to 
convene in executive session to discuss contract negotiations.  The Committee has released the 
minutes of the March 30 meeting.  During the executive session, the Committee discussed Dr. 
Perrone’s request for alternate contract terms, which included additional vacation and sick time, 
as well as an increase in salary.  In addition, the Committee discussed Dr. Perrone’s use of the 
term “Ladies” in his email to the Committee Chair and Committee Executive Assistant and 
expressed their concern with the use of the term suggesting it was inappropriate.  Ultimately, the 
Committee voted by majority vote to rescind the offer made to Dr. Perrone for the 
Superintendent position. 
 
 
 
2 We remind the Committee that when convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2, a public body must 
identify the nonunion personnel with whom it will be negotiating, if doing so will not compromise the lawful 
purpose for secrecy.  See OML 2020-21; OML 2017-53; OML 2016-43.  A public body should identify on the 
meeting notice the individual nonunion personnel that is the subject of the executive session, and the chair should 
publicly identify the nonunion personnel prior to convening the executive session.  See OML 2020-30; OML 2013-
97; OML 2012-39; OML 2011-56.   
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session 
for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first 
convened in an open session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into 
executive session, that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the 
minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether the open session will reconvene at the 
conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.
3   
 
All executive sessions must be preceded by an open session that is open and accessible to 
the publ
ic because the public has a right to witness the procedural steps in order to observe the 
vote and learn the purpose for the executive session.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(b) (1)-(3); OML 
2013-195.  When the only business to be discussed during an open session are the procedural 
requirements for entering executive session, we have explained that public bodies must list 
“Open Session” on the meeting notice, as this is the only means by which members of the public 
are informed that a public body will, in fact, hold an open meeting that they are permitted to 
attend.  See OML 2020-47; OML 2013-9; OML 2012-68.  Without such notice, members of the 
public are essentially denied the opportunity to attend and learn the reasons for the executive 
session.  See OML 2023-68; OML 2013-195.   
 
The notice for the March 30 executive session did not list “Open Session” nor did it 
include any information on how the public could access the meeting.  Rather, the Committee met 
remotely on March 30 and convened directly into executive session.  We find that the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to first convene in open session prior to entering into 
executive session.  While the chair stated the purpose for the executive session and the 
Committe
e unanimously voted by roll call to enter into executive session “for purposes of 
negotiations,” the public was unable to view this portion of the virtual meeting.  The public had a 
right to witness these procedural steps in order to observe the Committee’s roll call vote and 
learn the purpose for the executive session.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(b) (1)-(3); OML 2013-195.   
 
We find that the Committee met in executive session for a proper purpose, however.  A 
public
 body may enter executive session to “conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract 
negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”).  During the 
March 30 meeting, the Committee discussed contract terms for the Superintendent position 
offered to Dr. Perrone.  We find that such discussions fit within the parameters of executive 
session Purpose 2 as the discussions pertained to contract negotiations.  See OML 2022-71; 
OML 2019-51.  To the extent that the Committee discussed Dr. Perrone’s use of the term 
“Ladies,” we find that such discussion was appropriate here where it was a factor that was 
considered in the negotiation of contract terms.  See District Attorney for Northern Dist. v. 
School Committee of Wayland, 455 Mass.561, 568 (2009) (“While professional competence 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
must first be discussed in an open session, how that evaluation will factor into a contract or 
salary negotiation strategy may be a suitable discussion for an executive session.”); OML 2015-
10; OML 2012-10. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to first convene in open session prior to entering into executive session on March 30.  
We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and 
we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
law.  As the minutes of the March 30 meeting have been released to the public, we order no 
further remedial action.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Debora Lusnia – By email only:  
 Easthampton City Clerk, Barbara LaBombard – By email only: 
blabombard@easthamptonma.gov 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
