===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 22, 2017 
OML 2017 - 102 
Townsend Board of Selectmen 
c/o James Kreidler, Town Administrator 
272 Main Street 
Townsend, MA 01469 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Kreidler: 
This office received a complaint from Veronica Kell on May 3, alleging that the 
Townsend Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about April 5, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter which we received on June 19.2 In her 
complaint, Ms. Kell alleges that the Board failed to respond to a request for minutes. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to properly respond to a request for meeting minutes and by failing to create and 
approve its June 7, 2016 meeting minutes in a timely manner. In reaching a determination, 
we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the complaint, and the 
complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the 
complainant's request for meeting minutes and the Board's response. Finally, we 
communicated with you several times in June by telephone and email. 
We find the facts as follows. On March 3, the complainant submitted a written 
request to the Board for "a copy of the approved minutes of all executive sessions held in 
open session during the Board of Selectmen's meeting on June 7, 2016." On June 7, 2016, 
the Board anticipated meeting in executive session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) ("Purpose 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise indicated. 
2 We remind the Board that, unless an extension of time has been requested from our office, a public body 
must respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within fourteen business days. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
1") to discuss several complaints filed against members of the Townsend Conservation 
Commission. The subjects of those complaints requested that the Board hold the 
discussions in open session. Accordingly, the minutes requested are open session minutes. 
At the time of the complainant's request, the minutes did not exist.3 The Board created a 
draft version of the minutes on April 6, which it provided to the complainant on April 12. 
The Board then approved the minutes on April 18. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The minutes 
of an open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft form, shall be made 
available upon request by any person within 10 days. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to respond to her March 3 request for 
open session minutes. Although the requested minutes did not exist at the time of the 
request, the Board should have informed her of such within 10 days. See OML 2016-139; 
OML 2016-71, OML 2015-173 (when minutes do not exist, the body must respond to the 
requestor within 10 days, notifying the requestor that requested minutes do not exist in 
either approved or draft form).4 Accordingly, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to properly respond to a request for minutes. Furthermore, the Board waited 10 
months to create the requested minutes. The Open Meeting Law requires that minutes be 
created and approved in a timely manner. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). Although the Open 
Meeting Law does not define "timely manner," we recommend that minutes of a meeting 
be approved at the next meeting, whenever possible. See OML 2014-15; OML 2012-91. 
For bodies that meet regularly—that is, either weekly or bimonthly—we have concluded 
that a delay or two to three months in approving minutes does not comply with the law. 
See OML 2016-118. The Board's 10-month delay in creating and approving the minutes 
violated the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to properly respond to a request for meeting minutes and by failing to 
create and approve its June 7, 2016 meeting minutes in a timely manner. We order the 
Board's immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that 
similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
3 Having not received a response from the Board, the complainant appealed to the Supervisor of Records 
within the Office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth. On March 24, the Supervisor closed the appeal 
based on the Board's representation that it would provide the complainant with a response. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
http://www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
anne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Veronica Kell 
Townsend Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 