===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 4, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 157 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
John Cervone, Esq. 
City Solicitor 
Waltham Law Department 
119 School Street  
Waltham, MA 02451 
 
 
 RE: 
Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Solicitor Cervone: 
This office received a complaint from William Fowler on April 29, 2020, alleging that 
the Waltham City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Council on March 11, and the Council responded 
by letter dated April 30.1, 2 In his complaint, Mr. Fowler alleges the Council is improperly 
withholding from public release many sets of executive session minutes regarding the City’s 
taking of the Stigmatine property. 
We appreciate the patience of the complainant while we conducted our investigation. 
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
impermissibly withholding certain executive session minutes from the public after the lawful 
purposes for the executive sessions concluded. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint, the Council’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for 
further review. After repeated requests from our office during our investigation into the 
allegations raised in the complaint, the Council supplied for in camera review many sets of 
executive session minutes related to the Stigmatine property as well as some stenographic 
transcriptions of other meetings.3 We reviewed these documents as well as a cover letter and two 
 
1 We remind the Council of its obligation to respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 business days of 
receipt, or within the time allotted pursuant to an extension granted by our office. 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
2 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
3 We reviewed meeting minutes and stenographer’s transcriptions for executive sessions that took place on the 
following dates: May 29, June 4, June 11, June 18, and June 25, September 10, 2018; February 25 and December 25, 
2019; and January 27, 2020. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
legal memos submitted by Solicitor Cervone.4 Solicitor Cervone acknowledged that there are 
likely other executive session minutes that relate to the Stigmatine property that were not 
produced.  
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. In the first half of 2018, the Council was in negotiations 
with the Stigmatine Fathers to purchase a property located at 554 Lexington Street in Waltham 
for the purpose of building a new high school. During this period, the Council met in executive 
session on at least five occasions to discuss the ongoing negotiations and, eventually, when the 
negotiations stalled, to make a decision to take the property by eminent domain. We reviewed 
meeting minutes or transcriptions for executive session that took place on May 29, June 4, June 
11, June 18, and June 25, 2018. Upon returning to open session after the June 25, 2018, 
executive session, Councilor Stanley moved to approve an eminent domain taking order for the 
property located at 554 Lexington Street from the current owners, the Trustees of the Stigmatize 
Fathers Inc., for the taking price of $18,000,000. On July 23, 2018, the taking of the property by 
eminent domain was recorded with the register of deeds.  
On August 17, 2018, the City of Waltham filed a civil action against the Trustees of the 
Stigmatine Fathers, Inc. seeking a declaration that the City’s eminent domain taking was valid 
and that the City was then the rightful owner of the 554 Lexington Street property.5 In the 
following two years, the Council met in executive session at least four times – on September 10, 
2018, February 25, 2019, December 25, 2019 and January 27, 2020 – to discuss this litigation 
and settlement negotiations. On February 7, 2020, a settlement agreement between the City and 
the Stigmatines was filed with the court and approved on March 4, 2020.  
During its January 27, 2020, meeting the Council convened a second, later executive 
session to discuss “anticipated litigation,” regarding a matter before the Massachusetts 
Department of Environmental Protection related to the high school project. As we find that the 
purpose for this executive session is still ongoing, we do not describe the Council’s discussion in 
detail. This particular executive session will be discussed in detail below.  
On March 11, 2020, Mr. Fowler, a former Council member, filed his Open Meeting Law 
complaint with the Council.  
DISCUSSION 
 As a preliminary matter, a lthough not specifically alleged in the complaint, we remind 
the Council of its obligation to create and approve, in a timely manner, meeting minutes for all 
open and executive sessions. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a), 940 CMR 29.11. In the course of our review, 
we found some meetings which were documented by stenographic transcription, rather than 
approved meeting minutes. If the Council has any outstanding executive sessions for which 
minutes have not been created and approved, we order the Council to do so to the best of its 
ability within 60 days.  
 
4 We will refer to you in the third person for clarity.  
5 Middlesex Superior Court docket number 1881CV02385.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 Executive session minutes may be w ithheld from disclosure to the public “as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(f). When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any 
documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege 
or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, from 
disclosure. See id. The burden of justifying continued nondisclosure of executive session minutes 
lies with the public body. Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham Regional School Committee, 402 Mass. 
179, 184 (1988); OML 2014-138.6  
 The Division’s jurisdiction in t he course of the Open Meeting Law complaint process is 
to review for compliance with the Open Meeting Law. Therefore, we review whether a public 
body may lawfully withhold executive session meeting minutes based on a claim that the lawful 
purpose for the executive session is ongoing. If the public body acknowledges or we find that the 
purpose for the executive session has been served, the public body still may withhold the 
minutes, in whole or in part, if the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public 
Records Law applies. Any dispute regarding a public body’s claim that minutes are exempt from 
disclosure pursuant to an exemption to the Public Records Law should be directed to the 
Supervisor of Records in the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s Records Division. Accordingly, 
we discuss below the Council’s continued reliance on Open Meeting Law executive session 
Purposes 3 and 6, as a basis for withholding certain sets of executive session minutes; we offer 
no opinion on whether any exemptions to the Public Records Law may authorize withholding 
those minutes. In addition, the Open Meeting Law does not authorize the Attorney General to 
determine whether a public body’s assertion of the attorney-client privilege is justified. See G.L. 
c. 30A, § 24(e), OML 2014-22; OML 2013-7. We therefore make no finding as to whether the 
Council may justifiably assert the attorney-client privilege as a basis for withholding the 
executive session meeting minutes.  
1. Purpose 6: To discuss “the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property” 
 The Open Meeting Law require s that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. Among the ten enumerated purposes for executive session is “Purpose 6,” which 
permits a public body “[t]o consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if 
the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position 
of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(6). Purpose 6 is intended to preserve confidentiality in 
negotiating the value of the property to be purchased, exchanged or leased to avoid putting the 
public body at a disadvantage in its negotiations for the property. See District Atty. for the 
Plymouth Dist. v. Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 631 (1985). When 
representatives of the party with whom the public body will be negotiating are present, Purpose 
6 is defeated because there is no need to enter executive session to establish a confidential 
negotiating position. See Allen v. Board of Selectmen, 58 Mass. App. Ct. 715, 720 (2002); 
OML 2012-114. 
 Here, the Council properly entered into executive sessions under Purpose 6 while the 
Council was negotiating with the Stigmatine Fathers to purchase a property located at 554 
 
6 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Lexington Street, because the Council discussed the value of real estate and had a negotiating 
position to protect vis a vis the Stigmatines.7 When negotiations stalled, the Council decided to 
take the property by eminent domain. The Council argues that the purpose for these executive 
sessions regarding the Stigmatine property remained ongoing after July 23, 2018, the date the 
taking was recorded, as the Stigmatines were likely to dispute the level of compensation they 
received for their property through litigation. We agree that disclosure of the Council’s executive 
session minutes of discussions pertaining to the value of the property while the Council was in 
settlement negotiations with the Stigmatines would have been detrimental to the Council’s 
bargaining position, thereby undermining the Council’s purpose for entering executive session. 
Indeed, we find that the Council retained a negotiating position regarding the value of the 
property throughout the litigation as the Council was still negotiating with the Stigmatines 
regarding the value of the property, then in settlement negotiations. However, when the 
Council’s settlement agreement with the Stigmatines was finalized on March 4, 2020, this 
negotiating position concluded. Therefore, the Open Meeting Law does not authorize the Council 
to continue to withhold from the public any minutes of executive sessions held under Purpose 6 
related to the value of the Stigmatines property.  
 We order the release of any min utes for executive sessions that that took place on May 
29, June 4, June 11, June 18, and June 25, 2018. In addition, the Council must review the 
minutes of all potentially relevant executive sessions that were conducted for the same purpose 
and release those minutes as well. This order includes any documents that were used at these 
three meetings that related to the Stigmatine property. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). The Council may 
continue to withhold portions of the executive session minutes if the attorney-client privilege or 
one or more of the exemptions under the Public Records Law apply. Id.; OML 2012-106. 
2. Purpose 3: To discuss strategy with respect to litigation. 
 Another permissible reason to c onvene in executive session is “to discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”). This purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with 
respect to litigation that is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise 
demonstrably likely; the mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3. See 
Doherty v. School Committee of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Ferryman v. School 
Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-05. The public body 
invoking this executive session purpose must have a bargaining or litigating position to protect, 
and must declare in open session that having the discussion in open session may have a 
detrimental effect on that position. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3); OML 2011-47.  
 Here, the Council initiated litigation against the Trustees of the Stigmatine Fathers, Inc. 
on August 17, 2018. In the following two years, the Council properly met in executive session 
under Purpose 3 at least four times – on September 10, 2018, February 25, 2019, December 25, 
2019 and January 27, 2020 – to discuss litigation strategy and settlement negotiations. When the 
court approved the settlement agreement between the parties on March 4, 2020, the purpose for 
 
7 In the June 11, 2018, minutes we reviewed, one Councilor asked if it would make sense to invite the Stigmatines to 
an executive session. We note that it is generally improper for a public body to invite the party with whom it is 
negotiating into a Purpose 6 executive session. See OML 2020-57.  
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
these executive sessions had concluded, since the Council no longer had a litigating position to 
protect. We therefore order the Council to identify and release to the public all minutes of 
executive sessions during which the Council discussed strategy with regard to the City’s civil 
action against the Stigmatines, as well as documents and exhibits used in those executive 
sessions. In addition, the Council must review all potentially relevant executive sessions that 
were conducted for the same purpose and release minutes of those executive sessions as well. 
The Council may continue to withhold portions of the executive session minutes and documents 
and exhibits used in the executive sessions if the attorney-client privilege or one or more of the 
exemptions under the Public Records Law apply. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f); OML 2012-106. 
 Finally, we address the second January 27, 2020, executive session in which the Council 
met to discuss “anticipated litigation,” regarding a matter before the Massachusetts Department 
of Environmental Protection (“DEP”) related to the high school project. The Council asserts that 
there are ongoing DEP appeals regarding the project that continue to this day. Open Meeting 
Law executive session Purpose 3 covers discussions of litigation strategy for cases pending in a 
court of law, as well as post-judgment discussions concerning whether to appeal a decision and 
administrative proceedings that closely resemble traditional litigation. See OML 2020-53; OML 
2017-9; OML 2012-116. We therefore find that that the purpose for this executive session is still 
ongoing, and the Council may continue to withhold these minutes from public disclosure until 
such time as the matter before DEP is finally resolved.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, w e find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
impermissibly withholding several sets of executive session minutes from the public after the 
lawful purposes for the executive sessions had concluded. We order the Council’s immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Council that a determination by 
our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
Open Meeting Law. In addition, we order the Council to identify and release to the public all 
executive session minutes identified above in compliance with this order within 60 days. The 
Council shall notify this office, in writing, of its compliance with this order.  
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this  determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: William Fowler (via e-ma il:  
 Waltham City Council c/o City C lerk Robert Waddick (via e-mail: 
) 
 

===PAGE 6===
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 