===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL, 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
October 7, 2015 
OML 2015-147 
Judy Metcalf 
Director of Public Health 
Quabbin Health District 
c/o Ware Board of Health 
126 Main Street 
Ware, MA 01082 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Metcalf; 
This office received a complaint from Robert and Anne Krasnecky on July 29, 
alleging that the Ware Board of Health (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about July 14, and 
you responded on behalf of the Board in a letter dated July 21.2 In their complaint, the 
Krasneckys allege that the Board failed to announce that the June 17 meeting was being 
recorded. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to announce that its June 17 meeting was being recorded, however it took appropriate 
remedial action in response to the complaint. In reaching our determination, we reviewed the 
initial complaint, the Board's response, and the complaint filed with our office, requesting 
further review. In addition, we reviewed the minutes from the Board meetings held on June 
17 and July 15. 
We find the facts as follows. During the Board's June 17 meeting, the Board's 
recording secretary audio recorded the meeting to assist her in drafting the minutes; a practice 
that she had recently established. The Krasneckys also recorded the meeting, which they 
announced to the rest of the group at the beginning of the meeting. This announcement is 
FACTS 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 For the puipose of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 2===
reflected in the meeting minutes. Apart from the Krasneckys' announcement, the chair did 
not announce that the meeting was being recorded. 
In response to the filing of this complaint, the Board's recording secretary apologized 
to the Board during its July 15 meeting for failing to announce that she was recording the June 
17 meeting. For that particular meeting, the Board had met in a small conference room at 
Town Hall. Unlike Town Hall's larger conference room, where a sign is posted notifying the 
public that the meeting may be recorded, this smaller conference room did not have such a 
sign. The Board pledged to post a sign in this conference room as well. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that "[a]fter notifying the chair of the public body, 
any person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a public 
body, or may transmit the meeting through any medium, subject to the reasonable 
requirements of the chair as to the number, placement and operation of equipment so as not to 
interfere with the conduct of the meeting. At the beginning of the meeting the chair shall 
inform other attendees of any such recordings." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(e). The requirement that 
the chair inform attendees of any recording includes any recording made by members of the 
public body itself, including those made for public broadcasting or administrative purposes, 
such as assisting in the drafting of meeting minutes. See OML 2012-24 (a chair's refusal to 
announce "at each meeting that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast on local access 
< O 
cable television.. .violated the Open Meeting Law."). 
Neither the Krasneckys nor the recording secretary were required to announce that 
they were recording the meeting. The Krasneckys and the recording secretary are individuals 
who are not members of the Board and are therefore not subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
See OML 2015-41. As such, they are only required to notify the chair of their intention to 
record the meeting. It is the chair who must make such an announcement. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(e). Because the chair did not make this announcement at the beginning of the meeting, we 
find a violation of the Law. However, we acknowledge that the Krasneckys satisfied the 
purpose of this notification requirement such that attendees were aware that the meeting was 
being recorded. Moreover, the Board pledged to post a sign in the small conference room to 
notify attendees in the future that meetings may be recorded. See OML 2013-136 (where a 
public body regularly records or broadcasts its own meetings, it may satisfy the requirement 
of notification by prominently displaying a sign at the meeting location that informs attendees 
about the recording). Accordingly, we find that the Board has taken appropriate remedial 
action and order no further relief. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to announce that its June 17 meeting was being recorded. We find that the Board 
has taken appropriate remedial action in response to the complaint and order no further relief. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Robert and Anne Krasnecky 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 