===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
       November 3, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 177 
 
 
Edward G. Boscher 
Chair, Select Board 
The Finnerty House 
One South Main Street 
P.O. Box 670 
Belchertown, MA 01007 
 
By email only: eboscher@belchertown.org  
 
 RE: Op
 en Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Boscher:                                                                                                                                                                          
 
This office received a complaint from Michael Knapp on September 19, 2022, alleging 
that the Belchertown Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 29, 2022, and Town Clerk 
Theresa Camerlin responded, on behalf of the Board, by email dated July 29, 2022.  The 
complaint alleges that the Board created a subcommittee that did not post notice or create 
meeting minutes.    
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Board created a subcommittee which failed to comply with the Open 
Meeting Law.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We 
also reviewed relevant minutes of meetings of the Board and the Belchertown Finance 
Committee held between June 28, 2021, and February 21, 2023.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The American Rescue Plan Act (commonly known as 
“ARPA”) was signed into law in March 2021, to provide additional financial relief in the wake 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
of the COVID-19 pandemic.  These federal funds were available to local governments to use for 
a wide variety of public health needs, as well as to address negative economic impacts caused by 
the pandemic. 
 
Duri
ng a meeting held on June 28, 2021, the Board began a discussion about how the 
Town could use ARPA funds.  Board members suggested creating a working group to develop a 
program on how such funds could be allocated.  Board member Ed Bosher “moved the Board 
comprise a working group which is not subject to the open meeting laws of one member of the 
Select Board, the Town Accountant, the Town Administrator, the Treasurer-Collector, a member 
of the Finance Committee, one member of the School Committee and the Superintendent.”  The 
motion passed by a majority vote.  
 
Thereafter, the working group began meeting and discussed ARPA funding and how the 
program worked, including looking at surrounding communities and how funds were being 
allocated there.   
 
Beginning in November 2021 through 2023, the Board reviewed and discussed various 
requests from town departments for ARPA funding during duly posted meetings.
1  For example, 
during a November 1, 2021, meeting, the Board discussed a request from the Fire Chief and 
authorized the use of ARPA funds in the amount of $376,298.99 for a new ambulance; during a 
February 7, 2022, meeting, the Board discussed a request from the Department of Public Works 
Director and authorized the use of ARPA funds in the amount of $192,000 for outdoor restrooms 
and lighting at the Chestnut Hill Recreational Complex; during a June 13, 2022, meeting, the 
Board discussed a request from the Department of Public Works Director and authorized the use 
of ARPA funds in the amount of $134,000 for paving of the Town Hall parking lot; during an 
October 11, 2022, meeting, the Board discussed a request from the Superintendent of Schools 
and School Committee and authorized the use of ARPA funds in the amount of $617,250 for 
premium pay for school personnel; and during a February 21, 2023, meeting, the Board 
discussed a request from the Lakes Committee and authorized the use of $40,803 for Lake 
Metacomet Outlet Hydro-raking and Tri-Lakes Walter Quality Assessment. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-
(b), 21.  Except in an emergency, a public body must “post notice of every meeting at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays,” and “create and 
maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, 
time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a 
list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions 
taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b), 22(a). 
 
1 From our review of numerous minutes of Board meetings, the working group did not appear before the Board with 
recommendations on the use of ARPA funds.  Rather, the specific town department that was requesting ARPA funds 
would appear before the Board with such request. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to a public body, which is defined, in relevant part, 
as “
a multiple member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or 
legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, 
appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
A “subcommittee” is defined as a multiple-member body created to advise or make 
recommendations to a public body.  Id. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Board created a subcommittee “to make recommendations 
regarding the spending of more than four million dollars” and that this subcommittee did not post 
notice, create minutes, or hold meetings open to the public.  The Board contends that it did not 
create a subcommittee.  Rather, the working group was just individual government officials 
meeting to gather and organize requests for ARPA funds “so they can be presented at the Select 
Board level.”  Whether a public body created a subcommittee is a fact-intensive inquiry and our 
analysis hinges on the public body’s actions and whether it intended to create a multiple-member 
body.  Compare, e.g., OML 2017-111 (finding that no subcommittee was created where a single 
volunteer was sought to work on a matter and another board member thereafter, on their own 
initiative, volunteered to assist), with OML 2018-23 (finding that a subcommittee was created 
where multiple volunteers were sought to work on a matter and after two individuals 
volunteered, the public body, by consensus, formally agreed to the arrangement).
2   
 
We appreciate that the Board may not have understood that it was creating a 
subcommittee on June 28, 2021, and that as such the Board may not have literally intended to 
create a subcommittee.  However, when the Board voted to “comprise a working group,” defined 
the membership of that group, and delegated the responsibility of reviewing and organizing 
ARPA requests to those specific members, the Board’s action created a subcommittee.  See 
OML 2023-165; OML 2023-32; OML 2021-78; OML 2019-93; OML 2018-23.  This conclusion 
comports with past guidance where we have explained that a public body appointing two 
members to carry out a task would create a subcommittee.  See OML 2017-111.  Based on the 
information before us, we find that the Board created a subcommittee that was subject to the 
Open Meeting Law and that the subcommittee failed to comply with the requirements of the 
Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board created a subcommittee that was 
subject to the Open Meeting Law and that this subcommittee failed to comply with the Law.  We 
understand the subcommittee has been disbanded.  Due to the practical challenges of creating 
minutes for meetings that occurred over the course of more than a year, and because the Board 
itself approved requests for ARPA funds during duly posted meetings (minutes of those meetings 
have been created and are available online), we do not order further remedial action.  
  
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Michael Knapp – By email only:   
 Belchertown Select Board – By email only: selectboard@belchertown.org  
 Theresa Camerlin, Town Clerk – By email only: clerk@belchertown.org  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
