===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200
www.mass.gov/ago 
October 21, 2025 
OML 2025 – 167 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
Latrin
a Denson 
President, Board of Trustees 
Pioneer Valley Performing Arts Charter Public School 
ldenson@pvpa
.org 
RE: Open Me eting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms
. Denson: 
This o
ffice received a complaint from Emily Pfeiffer on July 2, 2025, alleging that the 
Board of Trustees of the Pioneer Valley Performing Arts Charter Public School (the “Board”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with 
the Board on or about May 29, and you responded on behalf of the Board by email on June 17.1  
The complaint alleges that the Board improperly deliberated in executive session about the 
renewal of Head of School Brent Nielsen’s contract.   
Followi
ng our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, 
the Board’s response, and the request for further review.  We also reviewed the notices of 
meetings held on March 4, March 11, March 26, and May 16, and the open session minutes of 
meetings held on February 11, March 11 and June 24. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  A public 
body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the 
Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session; that a majority of 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session; that the vote of each member is 
recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes; that the chair has stated the purpose for the 
executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose 
for which the executive session was called; and the chair has publicly announced whether the 
open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 
(b). 
Among the ten purposes for which a public body may convene in executive session is to 
“conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct 
collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”).  While the Open Meeting Law allows a public body to conduct
contract negotiations with nonunion personnel in executive session, it does not authorize a public
body to approve a contract in executive session.  See OML 2025-52; OML 2011-56; OML 2011-
44.2  Thus, a public body may reach an agreement on the terms of a contract in executive
session, but it must subsequently vote to approve or ratify such an agreement in open session.
See OML 2025-52; OML 2021-187; OML 2011-44.  A public body does not violate the Open
Meeting Law where it reaches consensus on the terms of an employment contract in executive
session, even taking a vote to confirm that consensus, and then formally approves the contract in
open session.  See OML 2024-52; OML 2019-51; OML 2015-184.
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it negotiated the 
renewal of Mr. Nielsen’s contract in executive session under Purpose 2.  As explained above, the 
Law allows a public body to negotiate with nonunion personnel in executive session.  Moreover, 
as required by the Open Meeting Law, formal approval of the contract occurred in open session 
on June 24.  Therefore, there was no violation as alleged by the complainant. 
To the extent that the complainant alleges that the Board has restricted public input into 
renewal of Mr. Nielsen’s contract, we decline to review that allegation.  The Open Meeting Law 
does not require that a public body allow public participation but rather gives the chair of the 
public body discretion to decide whether to permit public comment during a meeting and to set 
limitations on public comment if it is allowed.  See G.L. c. 30A § 20(g) (“[n]o person shall 
address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the 
request of the chair, be silent.”); see also OML 2020-114; OML 2020-77; OML 2017-189.3 
Although we find no violation for meeting in executive session to strategize and negotiate 
the renewal of Mr. Nielsen’s contract, we express our concern regarding apparent procedural 
lapses relative to those executive sessions.  Our review of notices and minutes revealed several 
instances where the Board did not appear to follow required procedure when entering executive 
session.  For example, when convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2, a public body 
must identify the specific nonunion personnel that is the subject of discussion, unless disclosure 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
3 In her request for review, sent on July 2, the complainant states that the relief requested in the complaint is moot 
because the contract was approved on June 24.  We note, however, that upon finding a violation, the Attorney 
General may issue an order to nullify an offending vote.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c)(3).  See also, e.g., OML 2024-47 
(ordering nullification of appointment of director of planning if public body does not hold new vote on contract in 
open session within 45 days). 
===PAGE 3===
3 
would compromise the public body’s negotiating position.  See OML 2022-29; OML 2021-187; 
OML 2015-193.  Notice of the March 4 meeting did not identify Mr. Nielsen as the nonunion 
personnel with whom the Board would be negotiating.  It is unlikely that revealing Mr. Nielsen’s 
identity on the March 4 notice would have compromised the Board’s negotiating position; at its 
February 11 open session meeting, the Board mentioned its plan to discuss renewal of the Head 
of School’s contract at the next meeting.  See OML 2013-195 (revealing name of individual 
whose contract was being discussed would not have been detrimental to Board’s negotiating 
position because the union and non-union employees whose contracts were being negotiated 
were aware of executive sessions). 
Additionally, and perhaps of greater concern, at least two of the Board’s calendar entries 
and meeting notices gave the impression that the Board was to meet in executive session without 
first meeting in open session.  Prior to convening in executive session, a public body must first 
meet in open session.  The public body must meet in open session to vote to enter into executive 
session; this vote could fail, or the public body could otherwise choose not to convene in 
executive session.  See OML 2013-856 (Board, realizing that it had posted notice for an 
improper executive session topic, chose to hold the meeting in open session).  Notwithstanding a 
meeting notice’s inclusion of an executive session, there is never a guarantee that a public body 
will enter into executive session.  OML 2024-176.  In addition, the chair must announce, in open 
session, the purpose for the executive session, “stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3).  
The public has a right to witness these procedural steps in order to observe the public body’s 
vote and learn the purpose for the executive session, and be present in the event the discussion is 
held openly.  See OML 2013-195.  For this reason, when the first or only topic for a meeting is 
an executive session, the notice must make clear that the meeting will begin with a brief open 
session that the public may attend.  See OML 2019-160; OML 2013-9; OML 2012- 68.  Notice 
of the meeting may not give the impression that the public body is meeting solely in executive 
session. See OML 2024-26; OML 2015-87.  Here, the calendar entry and notice for the Board’s 
March 4 meeting state “Executive Session Meeting for Board of Trustee Members.”  The 
calendar entry and notice for the March 26 meeting send an even stronger signal that the public 
is not welcome, stating “Executive Session Meeting for Board of Trustee Members Only.”  We 
caution the Board that it must follow all procedural requirements to enter into executive session.  
Failure to do so may result in nullification of the vote to enter executive session, requiring 
release of minutes of that session to the public, or other remedial action.  Finally, we remind the 
Board that public bodies are required to review executive session minutes at reasonable intervals 
to determine if continued non-disclosure is still warranted.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22 (g)(1).  Once the 
purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents or exhibits 
used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the 
Public Records Law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, from disclosure.  G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22 (f).
CONCLUS
ION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged by the complaint.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
Sincerely, 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc:  Emily Pfeiffer   
Sarah B. Gmeiner, South Hadley Town Clerk (via email: sgmeiner@southhadleyma.gov) 
This d
etermination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
