===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
April 15, 2026 
 
OML 2026 – 45 
 
 
Carolyn M. Murray, Esq. 
KP  Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By email only: cmurray@k-plaw.com  
 
 RE:        Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Murray: 
 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty on September 12, 2025, alleging that 
the Wellfleet Selectboard (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 21, 2025, and you responded to the 
complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated September 11, 2025.  The complaint alleges 
that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 1) posting notices of four meetings held 
between July 22 and August 20, 2025, that failed to include the date and time the notices were 
posted; 2) failing to include sufficient specificity on the notices of four meetings held between 
July 22 and August 20, 2025; 3) failing to allow for public participation during a meeting held on 
August 19, 2025; 4) failing to properly convene in executive session during meetings held on 
August 5, 19 and 20, 2025; and 5) failing to timely approve the minutes of the meeting held on 
June 17, 2025.    
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting notices for meetings 
held on July 22 and August 20, 2025, that failed to include the date and time of posting; by 
posting a notice with one insufficiently specific topic for a meeting held on July 22, 2025; by 
posting a notice with insufficient specificity regarding the executive session topic for the meeting 
held on August 20, 2025; and by failing to approve the minutes of the June 17, 2025, meeting in 
a timely manner.  We find that the Board did not violate the law in the other ways alleged.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  In addition, we 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
reviewed the notices and open session minutes of the Board meetings held on July 22, August 5, 
and August 19, 2025, the notice of the August 20, 2025, Board meeting, and video recordings of 
the Board meetings held on July 22, August 5 and August 19, 2025.1   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The official method of posting notice for the Town of 
Wellfleet is to its website, http://www.wellfleet-ma.gov.  Notices of Board meetings are posted 
to a Town Calendar located on the municipal website’s homepage, as well as to the Board’s 
specific webpage, https://www.wellfleet-ma.gov/selectboard.  
 
The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on July 22, 2025, at 6 P.M.  The notice 
did not include the date and time of posting.  The notice listed ten topics, one of which was 
“Business.”  This topic heading included further specific item descriptions that advised the 
public of the topics to be discussed including “Herring River Property Discussion – Williams 
Pond” and “Determination to release or not release opinions from town counsel.”   
 
The July 22, 2025, meeting was held as planned.  During the meeting, the Board 
discussed the Herring River Restoration Project.  The Chair introduced the topic by explaining 
that the Board would need to approve a warrant article for fall town meeting because the 
restoration project necessitated multiple land exchanges and the acquisition or disposition of 
town property needed town meeting approval.  Specifically, the Board discussed the Town’s 
intention to acquire the Williams Pond parcel, which would be given to the Cape Cod National 
Seashore and the National Parks Service, in exchange for a fee interest in land on Chequessett 
Neck Road and for easements off Bound Brook Island Road, and whether such transactions 
necessitated a public hearing in compliance with Town bylaws.  The Board then discussed two 
possible warrant articles to enable the Town to acquire the Williams Pond parcel and the fee 
interest and easement on Chequessett Neck Road and Bound Brook Island Road.  Ultimately, the 
Board unanimously determined that such transactions did not need to comply with Town bylaws 
but nonetheless recommended a public hearing on the matter. 
 
The Board then discussed generally whether to release opinions from town legal counsel.  
Although the Board did not specifically discuss any particular opinions, it did unanimously vote 
by roll call to release one particular opinion that related to the appointment of an individual by 
the Town Administrator to Maurice’s Planning Committee.
2   
 
On August 1, 2025, at 2:28 P.M., the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on 
August 5, 2025, at 6:00 P.M.  The notice posted to the Town Calendar did not include the date 
and time of posting, but the notice posted to the Board’s webpage included the date and time that 
 
1 A video recording of the Board meeting held on July 22, 2025, is available at https://reflect-
townofwellfleet.cablecast.tv/internetchannel/show/6950?site=1; a video recording of the Board meeting held on 
August 5, 2025, is available at https://reflect-townofwellfleet.cablecast.tv/internetchannel/show/6959?site=1; and a 
video recording of the Board meeting held on August 19, 2025, is available at https://reflect-
townofwellfleet.cablecast.tv/internetchannel/show/6977?site=1.    
2 We remind the Board that minutes that simply reflect that a roll call vote was conducted do not satisfy the Open 
Meeting Law’s requirement that the vote of each member be recorded by roll call and entered in the minutes .  Even 
unanimous votes need to be recorded by roll call in the minutes.  See OML 2015-131; OML 2013-195.   
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
the notice was posted.  The notice listed nine topics, one of which was “Business.”  This topic 
heading included further specific item descriptions that advised the public of the topics to be 
discussed including “Discussion of future action by the board regarding new policy for financial 
assistance with septic systems in the town of Wellfleet – Thomas Guerino, Town Administrator”; 
“Board’s approval for Barbara Carboni to be on a regional meeting committee”; and 
“Appearance of Conflict of Interest – Josh Yeston.”   
 
The August 5, 2025, meeting was held as planned.  During the meeting, the Town 
Administrator presented to the Board a draft policy for providing financial assistance to property 
owners required to upgrade or replace their septic systems with nitrogen-reducing systems due to 
the implementation of recent Board of Health regulations.  The Town Administrator explained 
that there were approximately 18 homeowners affected and that the Town would reimburse 
homeowners up to $25,000 for nitrogen-reducing components, and then up to $18,500 for other 
associated replacement costs.  The Board discussed what part of the budget the reimbursements 
would come from and whether it needed to go before town meeting.  Board member Barbara 
Carboni then made a motion to “direct the town administrator to send the draft policy to the 
department heads and other appropriate members of town government,” including the Board of 
Health as well as town counsel, with the policy to then be discussed and voted on by the Board 
during its next meeting.  The motion was seconded by Vice Chair Sheila Lyons and approved by 
a unanimous vote of the Board. 
 
The Board then discussed the appointment of Ms. Carboni to a newly formed regional 
committee that would review shared services and unanimously voted to appoint Ms. Carboni to 
such committee.  The Board also discussed a disclosure of appearance of a conflict of interest 
filed by Board Member Josh Yeston to design a logo for the Wellfleet Food Pantry.  The Board 
discussed the difference between a financial conflict of interest and the appearance of a conflict 
of interest and agreed to further discuss the matter with Mr. Yeston during the next meeting that 
he attends.  
 
On August 15, 2025, at 2:42 P.M., the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on 
August 19, 2025, at 6:00 P.M.  The notice posted to the Town Calendar did not include the date 
and time of posting, but the notice posted to the Board’s webpage included the date and time that 
the notice was posted.  The notice listed nine topics, one of which was “Business.”  This topic 
heading included further specific item descriptions that advised the public of the topics to be 
discussed including “ADU’s on the National Seashore Land Counsel’s report/opinion – Barbara 
Carboni”; Draft policy for financial assistance with septic systems in the town of Wellfleet – 
with department heads, and appropriate town government comments. The board to discuss and 
possibly vote to accept the new policy”; “Fall Town Meeting”; and “Ice Machine update.”   
 
The August 19, 2025, meeting was held as planned.  During the meeting, the Board 
discussed whether Accessory Dwelling Units were allowed in the Seashore District and heard 
from Land Use counsel who opined that state law allowed Accessory Dwelling Units in the 
Seashore District.  The Board discussed the number of houses on the seashore and members 
expressed their individual opinions on whether Accessory Dwelling Units should be allowed.  
The Board then approved a motion by majority vote that the Board’s position would be that 
Accessory Dwelling Units are allowed within the national seashore park district and to direct the 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
town’s representatives on the Seashore Advisory Council to represent the Board’s position, and 
further to encourage the Planning Board to amend town bylaws. 
 
The Town Administrator then presented to the Board an amended draft policy for 
providing financial assistance to property owners required to upgrade or replace their septic 
systems with nitrogen-reducing systems due to the implementation of Board of Health 
regulations.  The Town Administrator explained that there were approximately 22 homeowners 
that needed to upgrade or replace their septic system, and the Board discussed the funds available 
and the amount of reimbursement the Town could provide to affected homeowners.  Mr. Yeston 
then made a motion to approve the draft policy which would reimburse homeowners “up to 
$25,000 for nitrogen reducing components and an additional $18,500 for other associated costs 
for total maximum reimbursement of $43,500 cost sharing, total reimbursement will not exceed 
50% of the total system, installation, and environmental restoration cost.”  The motion was 
seconded by Vice Chair Lyons and approved by a majority roll call vote of the Board.
3 
 
Next, the Town Administrator’s Executive Assistant provided the Board with a timeline 
for Town Meeting explaining that article requests from town departments were due at the end of 
August and the Board would then meet and review proposed requests in early September.  The 
Assistant Town Administrator then provided the Board with an update on the installation of an 
ice machine at the marina explaining the bidding process and why the project was behind 
schedule.  
 
The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on August 20, 2025, at 5:30 P.M.  The 
notice did not include the date and time of posting.  The notice listed the following topics: “Call 
Meeting to Order,” “Enter into executive session not to return to open session,” and 
“Adjournment.”  The notice specifically identified Purpose 3 as the reason for convening in 
executive session to “discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body 
and the chair so declares.”   
 
The August 20, 2025, meeting was held as planned.  The Board first convened in open 
session, announced the purpose of the executive session as listed on the notice and then voted by 
roll call to convene in executive session.  During the executive session, the Board discussed 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining for all unions.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. One of the Allegations Raised in the Complaint Does Not Constitute a 
Violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
  
The complaint alleges that the Board did not allow public comment on certain topics 
listed on the notice for a meeting held on August 19, 2025.  Even assuming the allegation raised 
 
3 We remind the Board that meeting minutes must include, among other things, “the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a).  Because the Open Meeting Law requires a public body to create accurate minutes, all votes taken 
during a meeting must be accurately recorded.  Thus, to be accurate, minutes must document a roll call vote by 
listing the names of each public body member and how each voted.  See OML 2015-131; OML 2013-195. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
in the complaint was true, it would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  The 
Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow public participation, but rather 
gives the chair of the public body discretion to decide whether to permit public comment during 
a meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A § 20(g) (“[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body 
without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.”); see 
also OML 2020-77; OML 2017-189.4  If public participation will be permitted, the chair may 
determine the method for receiving public comment, who may speak or otherwise participate 
during a meeting, and may set limitations on participation.
5  See OML 2020-114; OML 2017-
189.  Even though the Board allowed for public participation on some topics during the August 
19, 2025, meeting, it was not required to do so for all topics.  We do, however, encourage public 
bodies to allow for as much public participation as time and circumstances permit, and note that 
the Committee allowed for public comment during the March 20, 2025, meeting.  See OML 
2019-120; OML 2015-12; OML 2014-129; OML 2012-59.   
 
II. The Board Failed to Include the Date and Time that the July 22 and 
August 20, 2025, Meeting Notices Were Posted. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Board posted notices for meetings to be held on July 22, 
August 5, August 19, and August 20, 2025, which did not include the date and time that the 
notices were posted.
6  The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies “post notice of every 
meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Every notice must include “the date, time and place of such 
meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  In addition, the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law 
regulations require that “the date and time that the notice is posted shall be conspicuously 
recorded thereon or therewith.”  940 CMR 29.03(1)(d); see OML 2011-45.  Therefore, the date 
and time of posting may be listed either on the meeting notice itself or on the website next to the 
link to the meeting notice.  See OML 2019-102; OML 2018-53.  Notices that are revised within 
the 48 hours before the meeting must conspicuously record both the date and time that it was 
posted originally and the date and time that the notice was revised.  See 940 CMR 29.03(1)(d); 
OML 2017-183; OML 2013-44.   
 
We find that when the Board posted notices of the July 22 and August 20, 2025, meetings 
to the town website, the official notice posting location, the notices themselves did not include 
the date and time of posting, and the website failed to conspicuously record the date and time 
that the notices were posted.  As such, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting two notices which did not include the date and time of posting.  We find, however, that 
the website conspicuously recorded the date and time that the notices of the August 5 and August 
19, 2025, meeting notices were posted.  We remind the Board that recording the date and time 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law.  
5 We note that the Supreme Judicial Court recently explained that content-based restrictions on public comment may 
violate the portion of the Massachusetts Declaration of Rights protecting the right to assemble and the right to free 
speech.  See Barron v. Kolenda, 491 Mass. 408 (2023).  The Division of Open Government’s review concerns 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law; we do not review allegations concerning restrictions on public comment.  
6 The complaint does not allege that the notices for the four meetings were not posted in a timely manner, only that 
the notices did not include the date and time that they were posted to the website. 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
enables the public to observe that public bodies are complying with the Open Meeting Law’s 
notice requirements and further provides this office with evidence of compliance with the law.  
See OML 2013-44.   
 
III. We Find One Topic Listed on the July 22, 2025, Meeting Notice to be 
Insufficiently Specific.  
 
As explained above, every meeting notice must include “the date, time and place of such 
meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Public bodies are required to list topics on a notice with 
“sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(1)(b).  We generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2022-206; OML 2015-35.   
 
The complaint alleges that nine topics listed on the notices of three Board meetings were 
insufficiently specific.  That is, the complaint alleges that two topics (“Herring River Property 
Discussion – Williams Pond” and “Determination to release or not release opinions from town 
counsel”) listed on the July 22, 2025, meeting notice; three topics (“Discussion of future action 
by the board regarding new policy for financial assistance with septic systems in the town of 
Wellfleet”; “Board’s approval for Barbara Carboni to be on a regional meeting committee”; and 
“Appearance of Conflict of Interest – Josh Yeston”) listed on the August 5, 2025, meeting 
notice; and four topics (“ADU’s on the National Seashore Land Counsel’s report/opinion”; Draft 
policy for financial assistance with septic systems in the town of Wellfleet . . . board to discuss 
and possibly vote to accept the new policy”; “Fall Town Meeting”; and “Ice Machine update”) 
listed on the August 19, 2025, meeting notice were insufficiently specific.
7  When reviewing a 
meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a 
meeting notice standing alone.  See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155.  Rather, we review what 
was actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently detailed to make 
the public aware of the discussion topics.   
 
After reviewing the notices, minutes and video recordings of all three meetings, we find 
that one topic, “Herring River Property Discussion – Williams Pond,” listed on the notice of the 
July 22, 2025, meeting was insufficient.  Here, although the Board discussed the Herring River 
Restoration Project and the Town’s intention to acquire the Williams Pond parcel during the 
meeting, it also discussed the need for warrant articles for fall town meeting because the 
restoration project necessitated multiple land exchanges and the acquisition or disposition of 
town property needed town meeting approval.  As such, we find that simply listing “Herring 
River Property Discussion – Williams Pond” was insufficiently specific to reasonably advise the 
public that the Board would further discuss warrant articles associated with the Herring River 
 
7 We remind the Board that notice topics which incorporate abbreviations or acronyms that are not widely 
understood by members of the public may be found to be insufficiently specific.  See OML 2023-83 (without 
context, “MASC” not widely understood by members of the public to stand for Massachusetts Association of School 
Committees); OML 2016-5 (“PILOT” not widely understood to stand for Payment In Lieu Of Taxes); OML 2015-
197 (“TRRP” not widely understood to stand for Temporary Repair to Private Roads Policy).  Cf. OML 2015-172 
(“FAA” widely understood acronym). 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
Restoration Project and acquisition of the Williams pond parcel.  On numerous occasions we 
have explained and illustrated that a notice topic must include sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed.  See, e.g., OML 2023-100 (notice topic “Annual 
Town Election – Ballot Questions Results” was insufficient to reasonably inform the public that 
the Select Board would discuss the potential demolition of the Old Town Hall); OML 2023-24 
(notice topic “A favorable Ordinance Committee report: Chapter 7 Ordinance Revisions” was 
insufficient to reasonably inform the public that the public body would discuss salary increases 
for city councilors and other city officials); OML 2022-174 (notice topic “2022-2023 School 
Year Calendar” was insufficient to reasonably inform the public that school committee would 
discuss changing Columbus Day to Indigenous Peoples’ Day on the school calendar); OML 
2019-89 (notice topics “Host Agreement,” “Land Development,” and “Non-Opposition letter” 
“did not sufficiently alert members of the public that the board would be discussing a marijuana 
establishment - a topic that, no doubt, was the subject of immense public interest”); OML 2019- 
117 (notice topics “Discussion of the AIDS Support Group’s plans in Falmouth” and “Seeing 
[sic] formal letter of support from the Board of Health” did not sufficiently alert members of the 
public that the board would discuss and approve a syringe access program).  We find that the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law by including the insufficiently specific topic on the July 
22, 2025, meeting notice. 
 
We find that the remaining eight topics listed on the notices of the meetings held between 
July 22 and August 19, 2025, contain sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meetings.  As such, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
with respect to the sufficiency of these topics.  A public body need not list each and every detail 
about a topic in order to comply with the law’s requirements, nor anticipate on the notice the 
course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion.  See OML 2025-66; OML 2022-98; OML 
2020-132; OML 2019-134. 
 
Although we find the remaining topics to be sufficient, we take this opportunity to note 
our concern with the Board’s explanation that the meeting packets posted with the notices 
provided additional specificity as to the Board’s discussions on the topics.  We remind the Board 
that the Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body attach supporting documents to a 
meeting notice or that it publicly post a “meeting packet” that contains such documents.  See 
OML 2022-24; OML 2022-19; OML 2021-181.  To the contrary, the meeting notice itself must 
contain the level of specificity that the Open Meeting Law requires; we do not review the 
contents of an accompanying meeting packet and posting attachments does not cure an otherwise 
defective notice.  See OML 2021-138; OML 2021-57; OML 2020-31; OML 2019-22. 
 
IV. The Board Provided Insufficient Specificity Regarding the Executive Session 
Topic Listed on the August 20, 2025, Meeting Notice But Properly Convened in 
Executive Session. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a 
public body be conducted in an open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 
21(a).  A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes 
===PAGE 8===
8 
 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that 
a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each 
member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly 
announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session. 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94. 
 
A public body may enter executive session to “discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or 
litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.”  G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(3) 
(“Purpose 3”).  When convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body must 
identify the collective bargaining unit with whom it will be negotiating or the litigation matter it 
will discuss, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy.  See OML 2019-
163; OML 2016-12.   
 
Here, the complaint alleges that the executive session topic listed on the August 20, 2025, 
notice lacked sufficient specificity because it did not indicate whether the Board planned to 
discuss litigation or collective bargaining, and did not identify either the specific litigation matter 
the Committee planned to discuss or the collective bargaining unit with whom the Committee 
would be negotiating in executive session.  During the executive session, the Board discussed 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining for all unions.  Our general guidance is that public 
bodies should identify the specific nonunion or union personnel with whom it is negotiating, 
both in the meeting notice and in the announcement prior to the executive session. See OML 
2015-126.  The Board acknowledges, and we agree, that it should have specified that it planned 
to discuss collective bargaining with all unions during the executive session.  Thus, we find that 
the notice of the August 20, 2025, meeting was insufficiently specific and the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law.  
 
To the extent the complaint alleges that the Board failed to indicate on the notice of the 
August 20, 2025, meeting that it would convene in open session before entering executive 
session, we do not find a violation.  When the only business to be discussed during an open 
session is the procedural requirements for entering executive session, public bodies must list 
“open session” or some other appropriate placeholder on the meeting notice in order to inform 
members of the public that the body will, in fact, hold an open meeting that they are permitted to 
attend.  See OML 2018-122; OML 2017-161.  Without such notice, members of the public are 
essentially denied the opportunity to attend and learn the purpose for the executive session.  See 
OML 2013-195.  Although the Board did not use “open session” as the topic notifying the public 
that the executive session would be preceded by an open session, the topic that was listed, “Call 
Meeting to Order,” was intended for this purpose.  See OML 2016-127; OML 2015-153; OML 
2015-110.  Accordingly, we find no violation in this regard.  Moreover, we find that the Board 
completed the appropriate procedural steps before convening in executive session, including 
convening in open session first, announcing the purpose for the executive session and taking a 
roll call vote. 
 
 
 
===PAGE 9===
9 
 
V. The Board Was Not Required to Convene in Executive Session During 
Meetings Held on August 5 and August 19, 2025.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Board discussed certain matters in open session during 
meetings held on August 5 and August 19, 2025, that should have been discussed in executive 
session.
8  The Open Meeting Law states that a “public body may meet in executive session” for 
certain purposes.  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a) (emphasis added).  As such, the Board has sole discretion 
to determine what matters will be heard in executive session.  Where the Open Meeting Law 
does not require a public body to enter executive session for any reason, we find that the Board 
was under no obligation to convene in executive session to discuss matters involving a conflict 
of interest during the August 5, 2025, meeting or to discuss matters relating to accessory 
dwelling units during the August 19, 2025, meeting.  See OML 2011-53. 
 
VI. We Find that the Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to 
Approve the June 17, 2025, Meeting Minutes in a Timely Manner.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made, and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).   
 
The Open Meeting Law further requires that open session minutes be created and 
approved in a “timely manner.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  The Attorney General’s Open Meeting 
Law Regulations define “timely manner” as “within the next three public body meetings or 
within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further 
delay.”  940 CMR 29.11(2).  Whenever possible, we recommend that the minutes be approved at 
the next meeting.  940 CMR 29.11(2); see also OML 2019-20.   
 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to approve the minutes of the June 17, 2025, 
meeting in a timely manner.  The Board acknowledges, and we agree, that it did not approve the 
minutes of the June 17, 2025, meeting until July 22, 2025, which was not within the later of the 
next three meetings or 30 days following the meeting.  See OML 2022-16; OML 2021-155.  As 
such, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to approve these minutes 
in a timely manner.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by  
posting notices for meetings held on July 22 and August 20, 2025, that failed to include the date 
and time of posting; by posting a notice with one insufficiently specific topic for a meeting held 
 
8 To the extent the complaint alleges, as an alternate theory, that the Board improperly convened in executive 
session during the meetings held on August 5 and August 19, 2025, to discuss issues involving a conflict of interest 
or accessory dwelling units without listing those topics on the notice, the Board explains that it did not convene in 
executive session on either of those dates in August. 
 
===PAGE 10===
10 
 
on July 22, 2025; by posting a notice with insufficient specificity regarding the executive session 
topic for the meeting held on August 20, 2025; and by failing to approve the minutes of the June 
17, 2025, meeting in a timely manner.  We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that future similar violations may be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
  
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
   
 
cc:       Ronald Beaty – By email only:  
Wellfleet Selectboard – By email only: BOS@wellfleet-ma.gov  
Wellfleet Town Clerk – By email only: Townclerk@wellfleet-ma.gov  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must 
be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
