===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
July 16, 2012 
OML 2012-57 
Victoria Kinniburgh 
Seekonk Board of Health 
100 Peck Street 
Seekonk, MA 02771 
Re: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Kinniburgh: 
This office received a complaint from Robert McLintock on December 22, 2011, 
alleging a violation of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by the Seekonk Board 
of Health (the "Board"). The complaint alleges that the Board improperly prohibited Mr. 
McLintock from making a video recording of its November 16, 2011 meeting. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 20, 2011. We received the 
Board's response to the complaint in a letter dated November 30, 2011. 
We reviewed the November 20, 2011 and December 22, 2011 complaints; the 
Board's November 30, 2011 response; and a written statement, dated April 25, 2012, from 
former chair Victoria Kinniburgh l  responding to an April 5, 2012 request from our office. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
FACTS 
Mr. McLintock is a member of the Board. Prior to the Board's November 16, 2011 
meeting, Mr. McLintock informed Ms. Kinniburgh that he would be making an audio and 
video recording of the meeting. According to Ms. Kinniburgh, Mr. McLintock wanted to use 
TV 9 Public Access equipment. She stated that Mr. McLintock could record the meeting if 
For the purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
he was to use his own equipment but, because he wanted to use the public access equipment, 
she felt it was permissible for her to reject his request. 
While the TV 9 Public Access equipment is owned by Comcast Cable, Town board 
members may operate the equipment, and permission from Comcast is not needed each time 
a board member wishes to do so. However, according to Ms. Kinniburgh, during its August 
12, 2009 and September 9, 2009 meetings, the Board discussed recording its meetings and 
broadcasting them over the public access station, but voted not to do so because the Board 
felt that "there were too many sensitive issues that were discussed" and some issues "could 
perhaps even violate HIPPA laws." 
During the Board's November 16, 2011 meeting, one Board member did record the 
meeting, as did a member of the audience. Both individuals used their own recording 
equipment, notified the chair that they would be recording the meeting, and then the chair 
announced at the beginning of the meeting that the meeting was being recorded. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law states that "[a]fter notifying the chair of the public body, any 
person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a public 
body, or may transmit the meeting through any medium." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(e). Therefore, 
any individual has the right to record an open session meeting of a public body. See OML 
2012-24.2  After reviewing the complaint, it is apparent that the chair was familiar with the 
law's requirements concerning the right to record open meetings. The chair allowed two 
individuals to make video recordings of the Board's meeting, and properly announced that 
the meeting was being recorded. 
In this instance, it was permissible for the chair to reject Mr. McLintock's request 
because she did not prohibit him from recording, only from using equipment owned by the 
cable company. While the cable company may have a policy that allows members of public 
bodies to use its equipment to record and broadcast meetings without obtaining Comcast's 
permission, the Board had previously voted not to record and broadcast its meetings using 
the cable access equipment. Therefore, it was within the Chair's discretion to prohibit 
members from violating this Board policy. If Mr. McLintock had asked to record the 
meeting using his own personal equipment, however, then the Chair would have been 
required to allow him to record. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by not allowing Mr. 
McLintock to use the cable access equipment to record the Board's November 16, 2011 
meeting. 
2  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
2 
===PAGE 3===
We now consider this matter closed. Please contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if 
you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Amy L. Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Robert McLintock 
Joyce Frank, Kopelman and Paige, P.C., Town Counsel to the Town of Seekonk 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3 