===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 15, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 146 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Michael J. Maccaro, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane LLP 
  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Maccaro: 
This office received a complaint from Stan Wysocki on March 14, 2021, alleging that the 
Nashoba Regional School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about January 4, 
2021, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated January 25, 2021. The 
complaint alleges that the Committee discussed two topics during its December 16, 2020, 
meeting that were not included on the notice for that meeting.1 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response, the 
request for further review, notices for Committee meetings held on December 16 and 21, the 
minutes of the December 16 meeting, video recordings of the December 16 and 21 meetings,2 
and additional information provided by the Committee in response to requests from our office. 
We also communicated with Counsel for the Committee3 by email. 
 
 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2020 unless otherwise stated. 
2 Video recordings of the December 16 and 21 meetings may be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2cdYa75srus and https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x6ZgX_7cDv0. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On December 11 the Committee posted notice for a 
meeting to be held on December 16 at 6:00 p.m. Among the topics listed on the meeting notice 
were “Superintendent’s Report” and “Items to be considered for next and/or future agendas.” 
The notice did not indicate that the Committee would discuss the Nashoba Regional School 
District (the “District”) potentially returning from the upcoming winter break to a fully remote 
learning model or the District’s indoor winter sports schedule.  
 
On December 11 Committee member Mary McCarthy requested that Committee member 
Elaine Sanfilippo, who would be acting as Chair for the December 16 meeting and was 
responsible for creating that meeting’s notice, include on the notice a topic regarding the 
District’s winter sports schedule. The purpose of the topic was to discuss amending a vote the 
Committee had taken on September 2 approving the 2020-2021 winter sports schedule. Because 
it was Member Sanfilippo’s understanding that under the rules of parliamentary procedure the 
Committee could reconsider a prior motion at any time, she did not believe the topic needed to 
be included on the meeting notice and so it was not included.  
 
On December 14, Member Sanfilippo and the Superintendent of Schools at the time, 
Brooke Clenchy, communicated regarding the items anticipated to be covered during the 
Superintendent’s Report at the December 16 meeting. Due to an increase in Covid-19 cases after 
the Thanksgiving holiday break, several school districts were considering coming back from 
winter break to a fully remote learning model on a temporary basis. Superintendent Clenchy 
explained the situation to Member Sanfilippo and asked if the topic of a fully remote learning 
model should be raised during the December 16 meeting. No final decision was made during that 
discussion as to whether to raise this issue at the December 16 meeting. On the evening of 
December 15, Superintendent Clenchy sent an email to the Committee providing information 
about a fully remote learning model and offering to raise the matter for discussion at the 
December 16 meeting.   
 
The Committee convened its meeting on December 16 as scheduled. During the 
Superintendent’s Report, Superintendent Clenchy, Assistant Superintendent Todd Maguire, and 
Human Resources Manager Ann Marie Stoica provided updates on several items. At the 
conclusion of the Superintendent’s Report, Superintendent Clenchy explained to the Committee 
that in response to a rise in Covid-19 cases after the Thanksgiving holiday, several school 
districts were considering returning from the winter break to a fully remote learning model on a 
temporary basis. Superintendent Clenchy suggested that the Committee consider doing 
something similar.  
 
After discussion of other items raised in the Superintendent’s Report, the Committee 
discussed retuning from winter break to a fully remote learning model. Early in this discussion, 
Member Leah Vivirito noted that the topic had not been included on the meeting notice and 
stated that she was not comfortable voting on the matter that evening. Discussion ensued 
regarding whether the Committee would have another opportunity to address this issue; whether 
to schedule an additional meeting to discuss the issue and whether the Committee would vote on 
this issue at that meeting; what information the Committee would need in order to make an 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
informed decision; whether the Committee had the authority to make this decision; and for how 
long Superintendent Clenchy proposed the District utilize a fully remote model after winter 
break. Altogether, this discussion lasted approximately thirty minutes. Ultimately, the Committee 
voted to schedule a meeting for December 21 to discuss whether to return from the winter break 
to a fully remote learning model.      
 
Later in the meeting, Member McCarthy moved to amend the Committee’s vote taken on 
September 2 to approve the 2020-2021 winter sports schedule and to change the dates for all 
indoor winter sports to either “fall season two” or the “floating season.” In support of the motion, 
Member McCarthy explained her concerns regarding the rise in Covid-19 cases and the fact that 
indoor sports, such as basketball, present a higher risk for transmission than outdoor sports. The 
Committee then discussed the logistics of changing the District’s winter sports schedule, Covid-
19 safety protocols in place for school sports, and other concerns regarding the winter sports 
schedule and whether to change it. At one point, Member Joseph Gleason pointed out that this 
topic had not been included on the notice for the meeting and expressed concern about making 
any decision regarding the winter sports schedule. Thereafter, the Committee discussed the rules 
of parliamentary procedure and whether the September 2 vote could be amended or reconsidered. 
In total, the Committee discussed whether to amend the winter sports schedule for approximately 
thirty minutes. Ultimately, Member McCarthy withdrew her motion and asked that the topic be 
included on the next meeting’s notice.   
 
On December 17 the Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on December 21. 
The notice included one substantive topic, “Unfinished Business Learning Model after the 
holiday break.” During the Committee’s December 21 meeting the Chair gave an overview of 
the Committee’s past considerations of remote learning and then polled each Committee member 
regarding three options for remote learning upon return from winter break; the Chair stated that 
she did not want to have a lengthy discussion on the topic. The poll resulted in a consensus that 
the District would continue with the hybrid model already in place. Thereafter, the 
Superintendent and Assistant Superintendent described how a fully remote learning model would 
work. The Committee members explained their reasons for continuing with the hybrid model, 
thanked residents for reaching out regarding this issue, and discussed other related matters.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law states, in relevant part, that “a public body shall 
post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting . . . Notice shall be printed in 
a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time and place of such meeting 
and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(b). The Open Meeting Law does not require the chair of a public body to anticipate 
the course of deliberation or the outcome of any discussion, but rather to list those topics that the 
chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting for which notice was posted. See 
OML 2016-130; OML 2011-36; OML 2011-23; OML 2011-13.4 Although a chair generally may 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
be aware that a discussion is ongoing, the Open Meeting Law only requires the meeting notice to 
contain the topics the chair reasonably anticipates discussing at the particular meeting for which 
the notice is posted. See OML 2021-40; OML 2018-159.   
 
In prior determinations, when a meeting notice has included as a topic a report or 
presentation from a person who is not a member of the public body, such as “Superintendent’s 
Report” or “Administrator’s Report,” we have declined to find a violation of the Open Meeting 
Law for lack of specificity where the public body chair did not anticipate the specific nature of 
the deliberations that took place. See OML 2018-33; OML 2017-90. Nonetheless, we advise that 
best practice dictates that public body chairs solicit from public officials more detail regarding 
the topics to be discussed under a “report” item. See OML 2020-44; OML 2017-184. When a 
chair reasonably anticipates 48 hours in advance of a meeting what will be discussed under a 
“report” topic, that detail must be included on the meeting notice. See OML 2012-19.  
 
The Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction . . . .” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Open Meeting Law’s definition of 
“deliberation” is broad and includes nearly any communication about a matter within the public 
body’s jurisdiction; “deliberation” is not limited to communications in which an opinion is 
shared, or which result in a vote or other action of the public body. See OML 2020-169.  
However, there is a narrow exception to the definition of “deliberation” for “the distribution of a 
meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the 
distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion 
of a member is expressed.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18, see also OML 2017-17; OML 2016-172. 
 
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it discussed topics 
during its December 16 meeting that were reasonably anticipated by the Chair to be raised during 
the December 16 meeting and which were not included on the meeting notice. With respect to 
the topic of returning from winter break to a fully remote learning model, we find that the 
Superintendent had specifically flagged this topic for possible discussion at the December 16 
meeting. Although no final decision was reached during the Superintendent and Chair’s 
discussion on December 14 regarding whether to propose the fully remote learning model at the 
December 16 meeting, we find that based on the totality of the circumstances this topic was 
reasonably anticipated for discussion and should have been included on the meeting notice.5 
Regarding the winter sports schedule, we find—and the Committee acknowledges—that the 
Committee violated the Law when it discussed this anticipated topic without first including it on 
the notice for the December 16 meeting. 
 
In its response, the Committee identifies several reasons why it believes it did not violate 
the Law or has already remedied any violations. For the following reasons, we find the 
arguments unavailing. First, the Committee asserts that, with respect to its discussion of the 
remote learning model, the discussion fell within the notice topic “Items to be considered for 
next and/or future agendas” and was simply taken out of order, and that the discussion fell within 
 
5 To the extent the Chair was made aware of other topics the Superintendent anticipated raising during the 
Superintendent’s report, detail about those topics should have been included on the meeting notice as well. See 
OML 2012-19. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
the exception to the definition of “deliberation” for purely administrative communications as the 
Committee was simply scheduling a meeting. We find these arguments unavailing where the 
Committee did more than simply discuss whether to hold a meeting and what topics to discuss 
during that meeting, and instead engaged in a half-hour substantive discussion about a remote 
learning model. See OML 2016-31. 
 
Additionally, with respect to the Committee’s assertion that it remedied the violations 
stemming from its discussions of the fully remote learning model and the winter sports schedule, 
we find that it did not. Violations of the Open Meeting Law may be cured by independent, 
deliberative action that is not merely a ceremonial acceptance and perfunctory ratification of 
action taken in violation of the law. See Pearson v. Bd. of Selectmen of Longmeadow, 49 Mass. 
App. Ct. 119, 125 (2000); OML 2020-7; OML 2016-49. Generally, that means conducting 
deliberations anew at a subsequent meeting that is accessible to the public and for which proper 
notice is provided. Regarding the discussion of the fully remote learning model, the Committee’s 
December 21 meeting was not intended to remedy the December 16 violation and the discussions 
held on December 21 did not address the discussions held on December 16. Regarding the 
discussion of the winter sports schedule, we disagree that the violation was remedied when 
Member McCarthy withdrew her motion during the December 16 meeting. Although we 
acknowledge that it may have been the intent of Member McCarthy to mitigate any violation 
caused by the discussion of the winter sports schedule during the December 16 meeting, the 
violation was the discussion itself; withdrawing the motion prior to a vote did not negate the 
discussion that already occurred. 
 
Finally, to the extent the complaint alleges that the Committee intentionally violated the 
Law, we disagree. An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body or a member 
thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. An intentional 
violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the law’s 
requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting Law. 
Id. We have not previously warned the Committee against the violation found here, nor do we 
find other evidence that would support a finding of an intentional violation. Instead, it is clear 
from the evidence presented that the Committee simply misunderstood the Open Meeting Law’s 
requirement regarding the topics that must be included on a meeting notice. We decline to find 
that the violation was intentional. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it discussed topics during its December 16 meeting that were reasonably anticipated but 
not included on the meeting notice. We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar future violations could be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the Law.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
 
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Stan Wysocki (via email:  
Kathryn Codianne, Chair of the Nashoba Regional School Committee (via email: 
 
Elaine Sanfilippo, Vice Chair of the Nashoba Regional School Committee 
(via email:  
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
