===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 8, 2016 
OML 2016-31 
David Jenkins, Esq. 
Kopelman & Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Jenkins: 
This office received a complaint from Attorney Chip Muller, on behalf of Diane 
Lawless, on August 3, 2015, alleging that the Freetown Board of Selectmen (the Board) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed 
with the Board on May 19, 2015, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, to the complaint 
by letter dated June 12, 2015. In her complaint, Ms. Lawless alleges that based on a decision 
made during its April 29, 2015 meeting, it appears the Board inappropriately deliberated 
outside of a meeting. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this 
matter. Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a meeting. We find this to be an intentional violation of the law, and 
we refer the matter to a hearing pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07(3). In reaching a determination, 
we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint 
filed with our office requesting further review. In addition, we reviewed the notices and 
minutes from Board meetings held on April 15, 2014; April 29, 2015; June 8, 2015; June 12, 
2015; and June 22, 2015. We spoke individually by telephone with all three Board members: 
Paul Sadeck; Lisa Pacheco; and Lee Baumgartner. We reviewed letters sent to the 
complainant by the Town Administrator and the Board, as well as several emails sent between 
or among the Board members. Finally, we reviewed portions of an audio-recording of an 
October 21, 2015 hearing held by the Department of Unemployment Assistance. 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Board is a three member public body, thus two 
members constitute a quorum. In a prior decision, OML 2013-186, we found that the Board 
improperly deliberated by telephone, email, and through a third party. Two of the three 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
current Board members, Mr. Sadeck and Ms. Pacheco, served on the Board at the time of this 
prior decision. 
The complainant now asks our office to determine whether the Board deliberated 
outside of a meeting leading up to its April 29, 2015 meeting. The complainant was the 
Treasurer for the Town of Freetown until June 26, 2015, when she was terminated by the 
Board. Beginning in April 2014 and continuing until her termination, the Board held a series 
of meetings to discuss possible discipline and/or dismissal of the complainant. These 
discussions began on April 15, 2014, when the Board convened in executive session to 
discuss complaints against, and possible discipline of, the complainant. During this first 
session, the Board outlined its questions and concerns regarding Ms. Lawless' performance 
and gave her an opportunity to respond. 
Then, on March 24, 2015, the complainant had a disagreement with one of her 
employees. At one point, they went to the Town Administrator's office to discuss the matter 
with him, but he was not in the office that day. Accordingly, the Board's assistant called Mr. 
Sadeck for guidance on what to do about the disagreement. Mr. Sadeck told the assistant to 
call Ms. Pacheco because she was the Board chair1 and then update him on what had 
transpired. Ms. Pacheco told the Board's assistant to send the complainant home from work. 
The Board's assistant promptly relayed this decision back to Mr. Sadeck. The Town 
Administrator later informed the other Board member, Mr. Baumgartner, of Ms. Pacheco's 
decision to send Ms. Lawless home that day. 
Following this incident, the Board did not discuss the matter at a meeting until April 
29, 2015, the meeting at issue. In the meantime, in consultation with counsel, Ms. Pacheco 
directed the Town Administrator to place the complainant on administrative leave. On March 
27, 2015, Ms. Pacheco sent an email to the Town Administrator, copying the Board, asking 
the Town Administrator whether he had received a draft notice of administrative leave from 
counsel to send to the complainant. She wrote, "If so when are we sending it out? This 
cannot wait..." to which the Town Administrator responded, "Yes, it is ready to go...1 am 
having Carlton...deliver it." On March 30, 2015, Ms. Pacheco sent another email to the Town 
Administrator, copying the Board, stating, "since she has received the letter.. .or at least that is 
my understanding.. .its [sic] time to move forward.. .please schedule a meeting with all parties 
so we can finalize things." Apart from these two emails from Ms. Pacheco, the Board 
members did not otherwise discuss the matter with each other leading up to the April 29, 2015 
meeting. 
On April 10, 2015, the Town Administrator sent another letter to the complainant, 
renewing her administrative leave and notifying her of an upcoming executive session on 
April 29, 2015 pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (Purpose 1). The meeting notice, posted 
on April 27, 2015, listed among the topics for discussion the following: "Executive Session 
pursuant to the provisions of G.L. c. 30A, § 21, 1 to hear complaints or charges made 
against Diane Lawless as an employee of the Town of Freetown." Prior to the meeting, 
counsel had prepared a draft Notice of Disciplinary Hearing to send to the complainant, 
outlining the charges or concerns with the complainant's performance. The Town 
1 Lee Baumgartner became chair in April 2015. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Administrator provided this draft letter and written complaints submitted by various 
employees to the Board in preparation for the meeting. During the April 29, 2015 meeting, 
the Board did not discuss this letter in detail or the specific charges brought against the 
complainant. After a brief procedural discussion, the Board approved a motion to schedule a 
hearing for the termination of Ms. Lawless at a mutually agreeable date. The next day, Mr. 
Baumgartner, who had just become Board chair that month, sent the Notice of Disciplinary 
Hearing to the complainant. Following the hearing, conducted over several meetings in June 
2015, the Board terminated Ms. Lawless. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. 
c. BOA, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through 
any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include 
the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other 
procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a 
meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.1" Id, (emphasis added) 
The complainant alleges that, based on the minimal substantive discussion about her 
discipline that occurred during the Board's April 29, 2015 meeting, the Board must have 
arrived at a decision to hold a disciplinary hearing prior to that meeting. We find that a 
majority of the decisions leading up to the April 29, 2015 meeting were made by Ms. Pacheco 
and the Town Administrator, in consultation with counsel, however the Board nevertheless 
engaged in improper deliberation through a third party and by email. First, Ms. Pacheco and 
Mr. Sadeck (who together constitute a quorum of the Board) communicated, through the 
Board's assistant, regarding the March 24, 2015 incident involving the complainant and 
another employee. The Board's assistant facilitated a communication between Mr. Sadeck 
and Ms. Pacheco regarding Ms. Pacheco's decision to send the complainant home from work. 
A public body may not use a non-member, such as a staff member, to communicate on 
matters that the Board would not otherwise be able to discuss outside an open meeting. See 
District Attornev for the Northern District v. School Committee of Wayland. 451 Mass. 561, 
570-571 (2009) ("Governmental bodies may not circumvent the requirements of the open 
meeting law by conducting deliberations via private messages, whether electronically, in 
person, over the telephone, or in any other form.") 
Second, Ms. Pacheco's two emails to the Town Administrator, which copied the rest 
of the Board members, concerned the next steps in the disciplinary process involving the 
complainant. Ms. Pacheco's first email, sent March 27, 2015, asked the Town Administrator 
2 The hearing was held on June 8; June 12, and June 22, 2015. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
about the status of a notice of administrative leave to be sent to the complainant which 
"cannot wait." Ms. Pacheco's second email, sent on March 30, 2015, asked the Town 
Administrator to schedule a meeting "with all parties so we can finalize things," adding, "its 
(sic) time to move forward." Although neither Board member responded to Ms. Pacheco, her 
emails shared her opinion with the Board regarding the ongoing discipline of an employee—a 
matter that was squarely within the Board's authority—and therefore should have been saved 
for discussion at a meeting. See OML 2013-130 (a public body should be aware that 
"questions directed to a third party have the potential to convey the opinion of the public body 
member sending the email" and therefore we recommend that members avoid copying a 
quorum of the public body on such communications). Accordingly, Ms. Pacheco violated 
the Open Meeting Law by sending her opinion by email to a quorum of the Board on two 
occasions leading up to the Board's April 29, 2015 meeting. 
We note that, had Ms. Pacheco's March 30, 2015 email simply requested the 
scheduling of a meeting and nothing more, it would not meet the definition of "deliberation." 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 18 ("deliberation" shall not include "the distribution of a meeting agenda, 
scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting [material] or the 
distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no 
opinion of a member is expressed") (emphasis added). Her email went beyond that exception, 
however, and expressed her opinion about the urgency of sending a notice of leave to the 
complainant. See id.; see also OML 2013-186 ("expression of an opinion on matters within 
the body's jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no other public 
body member responds"). 
The Board was advised by the Attorney General previously that it may not deliberate 
outside of a meeting. See OML 2013-186. While the Board's makeup has changed slightly 
since that decision was issued, a quorum of the body's members, including Ms. Pacheco who 
was chair at the time, served on the Board at the time of both violations. See OML 2014-42. 
Accordingly, because the Board had previously been advised by the Attorney General that 
this conduct violated the Open Meeting Law, we find that this violation was intentional. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18; 940 CMR 29.02; OML 2013-63. We refer this matter for a hearing 
pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07(3) and recommend that the Board be assessed a fine of $1,000, 
pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c) ("Upon the finding of a violation, the attorney general may 
issue an order to . . , impose a civil penalty upon the public body of not more than $1,000 for 
each intentional violation").4 We invite counsel for the Board to contact this office to discuss 
the hearing process. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by deliberating outside of a meeting on three separate occasions. We find that these 
violations were intentional. We therefore refer this matter to a hearing pursuant to 940 CMR 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at: https://www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 Although the Open Meeting Law allows for the imposition of $1,000 for each intentional violation, given the 
nature of the violations, we recommend a penalty of $1,000 total for all three instances of improper deliberation. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
29.07(3). We recommend the imposition of a civil penalty of $1,000 and an order of 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 23(c)(1), (3), 
(4). 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Board. We invite counsel to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 to discuss 
the hearing process. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc; Chip Muller, Esq. 
Freetown Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
5 