===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 4, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 117 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Erin N. Gibbons 
Chair, Wayland School Committee  
erin_gibbons@waylandps.org  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Gibbons: 
 
This office received a complaint from George Harris on March 20, 2025,
1 alleging that 
the Wayland School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about January 3, and you 
responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated January 24. The complaint alleges that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by continuing to redact portions of nine sets of 
executive session meeting minutes after the purposes for those executive sessions had been 
served.
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Committee’s response, and the request for further review. We also communicated with Erin 
Gibbons, Chair of the Wayland School Committee, by email and telephone.3 
 
A public body must create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The Open Meeting Law provides that minutes of an 
executive session meeting, as well as the materials used to prepare the minutes and all documents 
and exhibits used at the session, “may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety . 
. . [for] as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 With respect to one set of minutes, the complaint raised an additional allegation . In his request for further review, 
the Complainant withdrew the additional allegation.  
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
longer . . . .” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). Specifically, when an executive session is held under G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a
)(2) or (3), “then the minutes, preparatory materials[,] and documents and exhibits 
used at the session may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety, unless and 
until such time as a litigating, negotiating or bargaining position is no longer jeopardized by such 
disclosure . . . .” Id. Once the litigating, negotiating, or bargaining position is no longer 
jeopardized by disclosure of the executive session minutes and materials, “they shall be disclosed 
unless the attorney-client privilege or 1 or more of the exemptions under [the Public Records 
Law] apply to withhold [the] records, or any portion thereof, from disclosure.” Id. 
 
The minutes at issue here have been released to the public, but the Committee continues 
to redact portions of the minutes. The complaint alleges that the redactions are improper where 
they relate to “settled matters,” specifically, negotiations with unions and threatened and pending 
litigation. The Committee responded to the complaint by asserting, redaction by redaction, that 
each redaction is proper under the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §22, as well as either an 
exemption to the Public Records Law, the attorney-client privilege, or both. In a telephone call 
with our office, Chair Gibbons clarified that the purposes for the executive sessions at issue here 
have been served and that the Committee does not rely on the Open Meeting Law to justify the 
redactions. Rather, the Committee relies on the attorney-client privilege and the Public Records 
Law.  
 
The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law
, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Open Meeting Law authorizes the Attorney General to 
investigate a complaint alleging a violation of the Open Meeting Law but does not give the 
Division the authority to determine whether the Committee’s assertion of the attorney-client 
privilege is justified or whether an exemption to the Public Records Law applies to allow the 
Committee to redact portions of the subject executive session minutes. See OML 2022-87; OML 
2016-129; OML 2014-22; OML 2013-7.4 Because the redacted portions of the executive session 
minutes are not being withheld from the public under the Open Meeting Law, we find no 
violation of that law. We take no position as to whether the Committee’s claims of attorney-
client privilege or exemption from the Public Records Law are appropriate to justify the 
redactions at issue here. Any dispute regarding a public body’s claim that minutes are exempt 
from disclosure pursuant to the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records 
Law should be directed to the Supervisor of Records in the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s 
Public Records Division. See, e.g., OML 2025-20; OML 2020-157; OML 2016-57.  
 
  
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter.    
 
 
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Wayland School Committee (via email:  school_committee@waylandps.org)  
 Trudy Reid, Wayland Town Clerk  (via email: treid@wayland.ma.us) 
George Harris (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
