===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
January 6, 2017 
OML 2017-6 
Joseph I. Macy, Corporation Counsel 
City of Fall River 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Macy: 
This office received two related complaints from CJ Ferry alleging that the Fall River 
City Council (the "Council") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The first 
complaint was filed with the Council on January 12, and the Council responded by letter dated 
January 15. The first complaint was then filed with our office on January 20. The second 
complaint was filed with the Council on January 27, and the Council responded by letter dated 
January 29. The second complaint was then filed with our office on February 1. In his 
complaints, Mr. Ferry alleges that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) 
deliberating outside of a noticed meeting, and (ii) failing to follow proper procedure when 
responding to an Open Meeting Law complaint. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.2 Following our 
review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged in the complaints. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaints, the Council's responses, and the 
requests for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed a supplementary response 
provided by Fall River Corporation Counsel dated July 13. Finally, we spoke with Councilor 
Shawn Cadime and Council Secretary Colleen Taylor by telephone, both on December 13. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 Beginning in May, we sought additional information from the Fall River Corporation Counsel's Office concerning 
the allegations addressed in this letter. Information was provided to us, on a rolling basis, beginning in July. While 
we recognize that the Corporation Counsel's Office experienced staffing changes during this time, we nevertheless 
note that failure to provide documentation requested by our Office in the course of its investigation of an Open 
Meeting Law complaint may constitute a separate violation of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2016-12. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Council is a nine-member public body, thus five 
members constitute a quorum. On January 6, Councilor Shawn Cadime e-mailed the Council's 
secretary, Colleen Taylor, asking her to draft two proposed resolutions for discussion at an 
upcoming Council meeting. Ms. Taylor is not a member of the Council. At issue is the second 
of these proposed resolutions. The relevant text of the e-mail to Ms. Taylor was as follows: 
Create a new 3 member committee titled Budget Preparation, Revenue & Audit 
Committee. I would like the resolution to state that any items referred out of this 
committee will automatically be referred to the Committee on Finance. If you could also 
call the other members and see who would like to [co-sponsor] this with me that would 
be great. I have spoken to most of them and they are expecting this resolution. 
Following this e-mail, Ms. Taylor drafted the proposed resolution and responded to 
Councilor Cadime by e-mail showing him what she had drafted. She then sent a copy of the 
proposed resolution to the other Councilors. Ms. Taylor does not recall whether any Councilors 
contacted her in response to this e-mail, although she stated to our office that it would not have 
been uncommon for Councilors to do so. Similarly, Councilor Cadime does not recall how many 
Councilors he spoke to regarding this matter. On January 7, Councilor Cadime sent an e-mail to 
Ms. Taylor, stating, "I tweaked the resolution slightly and I included those councilors who will 
sponsor the resolution with me." In the upper right-hand corner of the draft resolution, the 
names of eight Councilors were listed, including Councilor Cadime. 
On January 8, the Council posted notice for a meeting to be held on January 12. The 
January 12 meeting was the first of the year, and the meeting notice indicated that the Council 
would consider several pieces of new business. The meeting notice listed a section called 
"RESOLUTIONS," with three proposed resolutions below. Of significance, the meeting notice 
listed one proposed resolution as, "Committee on Ordinances and Legislation consider adding 
another City Council standing committee, titled Budget Preparation, Revenue and Audit 
Committee." The Council held its January 12 meeting as planned and voted favorably on this 
draft resolution. 
The first complaint was filed with the Council on January 12. On January 15, the 
Corporation Counsel sent a response on behalf of the Council. During a January 26 meeting, the 
Council discussed the January 12 complaint. The second complaint was then filed with the 
Council to address the procedure by which the Council dealt with the first complaint. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Council Deliberated Outside of a Noticed Meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law is designed to eliminate "much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghighlione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A 
"deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
2 
===PAGE 3===
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction," Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority 
of the member of the public body, kl 
Here, the complainant in his first complaint alleges that the Council deliberated outside of 
a noticed meeting to discuss the proposed resolution creating the Budget Preparation, Revenue 
and Audit Committee. Gauging members' interest in a proposal prior to its introduction at a 
meeting constitutes active solicitation of an opinion by a body member; we have previously 
stated that this behavior, when reaching a quorum, violates the Open Meeting Law. See OML 
2014-176; OML 2013-76; OML 2013-75.3 While neither Councilor Cadime nor Ms. Taylor 
could recall which Councilors they spoke to regarding the proposed resolution, it is clear from 
Councilor Cadime's January 7 e-mail that he had secured the support of seven other Councilors 
to co-sponsor the proposed resolution. This process of securing support constituted deliberation 
between or among a quorum of the nine-member Council.4 Accordingly, we find that the 
Council violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. 
11. The Council Failed to Follow Proper Procedure in Responding to an Open 
Meeting Law Complaint. 
The second complaint addresses how the Council dealt with the first complaint. When 
an individual files an Open Meeting Law complaint with a public body, the chair "shall 
disseminate copies of the complaint to the members of the public body," and "the public body 
shall review the complaint's allegations." 940 CMR 29.05(3), (5). The chair is required to 
disseminate copies and the public body must meet to review the complaint and formulate a 
response, or meet to delegate that authority. See OML 2012-90. Here, the Corporation Counsel 
sent a response before the Council met to review the complaint. As the Council is required to 
review the complaint prior to authorizing legal counsel to respond, we find that the Council 
violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law 
with respect to both of the related complaints. We order the Council's immediate and future 
compliance, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to 
violate the law. Within 30 (thirty) days of receipt of this letter, we order the Council to publicly 
disclose at a meeting all e-mails between Councilors and/or the Council secretary concerning the 
proposed resolution discussed herein. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 Based on Mr. Cadime's January 7 e-mail, it appears that he contacted a quorum of the Council to gauge support for 
the proposed resolution. We note that public bodies may not utilize non-members, such as administrative staff, to 
facilitate communication between or among a quorum on matters within the Council's jurisdiction. See OML 2013-
75. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Sincerely, 
(C%~ 
Kevin W. Mangafiaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc; CJ Ferry 
Fall River City Council 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 