===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
January 2, 2026 
  
OML 2025 – 1 
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
Joseph R. “Jody” Smith, Jr. 
Chair, Wareham Finance Committee 
 
fincomm@wareham.gov 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Chair Smith:  
 
This office received a complaint from Brenda Eckstrom on October 17, 2025, alleging 
that the Wareham Finance Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint originally was filed with the Committee on September 19 and 
you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter that same day.1  The complaint alleges that 
at a meeting held on September 8, the Committee voted by secret ballot when choosing a 
candidate to recommend for membership on the Committee.  The complaint also alleges that 
notice of the September 8 meeting was not sufficiently specific. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  In 
addition, we reviewed the notice and minutes of the meetings held on September 8 and 
September 15.  Finally, we viewed a recording of the Committee’s September 15 meeting.2 
 
FACTS 
 
 On September 4, the Committee posted notice of a meeting to be held on September 8.  
Topics on the notice included “Vote for Finance Committee member” and “Vote for Chair 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2025.  We remind the Committee that the Open 
Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, a public body must meet to review the 
complaint’s allegations.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  The review of the complaint must be listed as a 
topic of a properly posted meeting notice. 
2 We accessed the recording at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mF0eyi_oMm4&list=PLCgQYz2DbG7xZQErIjyTNG5LwgYvi2EVw&index=
6.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
position.”  The meeting went forward as scheduled.  When the Committee reached the vote for 
Committee member, they conducted the vote by “Australian ballot,” or secret ballot, with Bernie 
Pigeon being the prevailing candidate.  The complainant was present during the vote and pointed 
out that it was not done in conformance with the Open Meeting Law.  However, member Alan 
Slavin maintained that the vote was proper.  The Committee next voted to elect a new chair, vice 
chair, and clerk. 
 
On September 11, the Committee posted notice of a meeting to be held on September 15, 
which notice included the topic “Revote Recommendation of new member to Appointing 
Authority.”  The meeting went forward as scheduled.  When the topic of the “revote” was 
reached, Mr. Slavin explained that after speaking with town counsel, he learned that the 
September 8 vote was not conducted properly and that the Committee would need to vote on its 
recommendation anew.  In the absence of further questions or comments, a new vote was held.  
Again, Bernie Pigeon secured the most votes. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it voted by secret ballot on 
its recommendation to fill a Committee vacancy. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law explicitly prohibits votes taken 
by secret ballot.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(b); OML 2025-85; OML 2016-121; OML 2015-145.3  
The Committee violated the Law when it voted by secret ballot at its September 8 meeting. 
 
Violations of the Open Meeting Law may be cured by subsequent independent 
deliberative action that is not merely a ceremonial acceptance and perfunctory ratification of 
action taken in violation of the law.  See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637, 642 (2008); 
Pearson v. Bd. of Selectmen of Longmeadow, 49 Mass. App. Ct. 119, 125 (2000); OML 2023-
96; OML 2020-7; OML 2016-49.  Generally, that means conducting deliberations anew at a 
subsequent meeting that is accessible to the public and for which proper notice is provided.  See 
McCrea, 71 Mass. App. Ct. at 642 (explaining that “violations of the open meeting law may be 
cured by subsequent ‘independent deliberative action’ taken in a full meeting.”); OML 2020-67.   
As noted in the Committee’s response, the Committee held a properly posted meeting on 
September 15, at which it explained that the prior vote was improper, and held a new vote in 
conformance with the Open Meeting Law.  We commend the Committee for addressing the 
improper vote, even before the Open Meeting Law complaint was filed.  We find that the vote on 
September 15 cured the violation that occurred when the Committee voted by secret ballot for 
Bernie Pigeon on September 8. 
 
  
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
II. The Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it voted for vice chair and 
clerk at its September 8 meeting, without sufficient notice. 
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Notices must include “a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  Id.  The 
list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently 
specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the 
anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2023-3; OML 2019-134; OML 
2015- 35.  The Open Meeting Law requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient 
specificity so that the public can make an informed decision whether to attend the meeting in 
order to observe the discussion regarding a topic of interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; 
OML 2018-22.   
 
Notice of the September 8 meeting included the topic “Vote for Chair position.”  At the 
meeting, however, the Committee voted not only for chair but also for vice chair and clerk.  
Organization of a public body is a matter of public business.  See OML 2011-38.  The 
Committee has not argued that the votes for vice chair and clerk were unanticipated.4  Because 
notice of the September 8 meeting did not include appointment of a vice chair and clerk as a 
topic, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it discussed and voted 
on those appointments at the September 8 meeting. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by posting an insufficiently specific notice for its September 8 meeting, and when it voted by 
secret ballot at the September 8 meeting.  We order immediate and future compliance with the 
law’s requirements and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law.   
 
In light of the multiple violations related to a variety of requirements of the Law, we 
further order all members of the Committee to attend an Open Meeting Law training webinar 
provided by our office within 90 days of the date of this letter, and to certify to our office that 
they have done so.5 
 
  
 
4 The Committee’s response to the complaint does not address the allegation that the notice of the September 8 
meeting was insufficiently specific. 
5 Information on upcoming webinars is available on the Attorney General's website, https://wwwmass.gov/service- 
details/open-meeting-law-trainings. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
 
cc: Wareham Town Clerk (via email: clerk@wareham.gov) 
Brenda Eckstrom (via email: ) 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
  
