===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 31, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 103 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Megan B. Bayer, Esq. 
City Solicitor  
City of Cambridge 
795 Massachusetts Avenue 
Cambridge, MA 02139 
mbayer@cambridgema.gov 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Bayer: 
 
This office received a complaint from Laura Ortiz on March 12, 2025, alleging that the 
Cambridge City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Council on January 11, 2025, and you responded on 
behalf of the Council by letter dated January 28, 2025.  The complaint alleges that the Council 
deliberated outside of a posted meeting regarding a letter to Governor Maura Healey about the 
state’s emergency shelter policy.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, 
the Council’s response, and the request for further review.  We also reviewed materials 
forwarded by the complainant with her request for review.  Finally, we communicated with your 
office via email. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On or about December 13, 2024, a letter was sent to 
Governor Maura Healey regarding changes to the state’s emergency shelter policy (“the 
Letter”).
1  The Letter was signed by elected officials of 39 municipalities, including councilors 
 
1 It appears that there were prior iterations of the Letter as well, and that some of the communication concerned 
those prior iterations, not the one that was sent on December 13, 2024.  A complaint alleging deliberation outside a 
meeting may be found to be untimely if filed more than 30 days after the alleged violation.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b) 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
representing a quorum of the Council.  Neither the Council nor any of its members 
(“Councilors”) contributed to the preparation of the Letter.2  Rather, Councilors received the 
letter from an outside source and were asked whether they would sign it.  Three of the nine 
Councilors did not respond to the request.  The remaining Councilors responded by various 
means, including by telephone and email, to various individuals, including to members of the 
Worcester City Council and the Salem City Council.  The Councilors did not discuss the Letter 
amongst themselves prior to responding to the request.  None of the responding Councilors 
copied any other Councilor in their communication regarding the Letter.  The Councilors do not 
know who added their name to the Letter after they communicated their endorsement or how the 
letter was then forwarded to the Governor.  They do not know whether anyone was copied on the 
Letter when it was sent to the Governor. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when convened in executive session, “all 
meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A “meeting” is 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; . . . .”  Id.  
 
Here, upon receipt of the Letter, som e Councilors communicated with outside parties to 
provide authority to sign their name to it.  Those who decided to sign on to the letter did so 
without knowing whether their fellow Councilors also signed, or whether their endorsement 
would be communicated to other Councilors outside of an open meeting.  No Councilor 
communicated with any other Councilor about the Letter.  Because communication of each 
Councilor’s endorsement was made independently and was not between or among a quorum of 
the Council, it did not constitute deliberation under the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2011-33 
(finding that board members’ independent signing of a citizen’s petition did not constitute 
deliberation where there was no evidence that members knew or should have known that their 
signature would be communicated to the other member).3  Therefore, the Council did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law, as alleged.  This conclusion is consistent with our findings in other 
contexts, including social media, that the Open Meeting Law does not restrict an individual’s 
right to make comments to the general public.  See OML 2024-175; OML 2018-145; OML 
2017-111; OML 2013-74.  Cf. OML 2021-133 (“When comments are made in a social media 
group that is closed to the public, it is reasonably inferable that posts are directed solely at the 
members of that group, and, when a quorum of a public body belongs to a closed group, 
 
(requiring that complaint be filed within 30 days of the date of the alleged violation ).  However, we do not consider 
the timeliness of the complaint, as it was not raised by the Council. 
2 It appears that the Letter was prepared by member(s) of the Worcester and / or Salem City Council(s).  The Letter 
is also the subject of four other determinations issued contemporaneously herewith. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
especially if the group is small, it becomes more likely that posts and comments are targeted 
towards the other public body members.”).4   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law when members communicated their endorsement of the Letter.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,  
  
  
Matt
hew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Laura Ortiz (via email: ) 
 Cambridge Town Clerk (via email: cityclerk@cambridgema.gov) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
4 To the extent that the complaint alleges that the Council failed to post notice of a meeting held to discuss  the 
Letter, we decline to review that allegation in light of our conclusion that the Council did not deliberate about the 
Letter. 
