===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
November 2, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 151 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Kimberly Scanlon, Esq. 
Medford City Solicitor 
Law Department 
85 George P. Hassett Drive 
Medford, MA 02155 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Solicitor Scanlon: 
This office received two complaints from Joe Viglione on June 7, 2021, alleging that the 
Medford City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaints were originally filed with the Council on May 6 and 10, and you responded on 
behalf of the Council by letter dated May 25.1 In his complaints, Mr. Viglione alleges that the 
Council approved minutes for a May 4 meeting which are inaccurate and impermissibly entered 
executive session on May 4 without a proper statutory purpose.2, 3 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 The complaints also allege that the City Clerk and Community Media Manager violated the Open Meeting Law. 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and individuals acting as public body members. See G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The Law defines “public body” as “a multiple-member board, commission, committee or 
subcommittee ... however created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public 
purpose[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The City Clerk and Community Media Manager are individual employees of the City 
of Medford, not members of public bodies. As such, the City Clerk and Community Media Manager are not subject 
to the Open Meeting Law, and we therefore decline to review these allegations. See OML Declination 12-18-15 
(Lawrence City Clerk); OML Declination 11-2-15 (Massachusetts Division of Marine Fisheries); OML Declination 
5-16-19 (Bourne Town Clerk). 
3 The first complaint also alleges that Mr. Viglione was interrupted and prevented from speaking by Council 
President Caraviello during public participation at the May 4 meeting. The Open Meeting Law states that “no person 
shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the 
chair, be silent.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). The Open Meeting Law therefore gives discretion to the chair of a public 
body to determine who may speak or otherwise participate at a meeting. See OML 2021-71. Because this allegation, 
even if true, would not constitute a violation of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, we decline to review it. See OML 
 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a) and find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Council’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.4 We also reviewed the minutes and 
a video of the May 4 Council meeting.  
Mr. Viglione alleges that the Council approved inaccurate minutes of the May 4 meeting 
because the minutes do not specify the name of a public official he sought to discuss with the 
Council at the May 4 meeting. The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and 
maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, 
time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a 
list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions 
taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing 
minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the 
accuracy requirement. See OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64.5 By substantial compliance, we mean 
that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who 
did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what 
occurred. See OML 2021-128. While minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each 
topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion 
presented. See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. 
Here, the minutes of the May 4 meeting state that Mr. Viglione had “filed a petition to 
discuss the reputation and character of a city employee … [Council] President Caraviello ruled 
Mr. Viglione’s petition out of order.” The video of the May 4 meeting shows that the exchange 
between Mr. Viglione and President Richard Caraviello was very brief; the Council did not 
discuss the substance of the petition. We find that the meeting minutes are sufficiently detailed 
because they adequately summarize the exchange and give a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting a clear understanding of what occurred. We understand that Mr. Viglione 
feels that the inclusion of the name of the public employee who was the subject of his petition 
was important. However, the Open Meeting Law does not require this level of specificity in 
meeting minutes. See OML 2021-74. We therefore find that the Council did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law in this respect.  
Mr. Viglione also alleges that the Council improperly entered executive session on May 4 
without a proper statutory purpose to discuss an employee’s performance evaluation. A public 
body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the 
Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is 
 
Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). Similarly, in the second complaint, Mr. 
Viglione alleges that the automatically-generated closed captioning of the Council’s May 4 meeting incorrectly 
transcribed Mr. Viglione as saying “night report” instead of “Knight report.” As the transcription and closed 
captioning of meetings is not required by the Open Meeting Law, we also decline to review this allegation. Id.  
4 We decline to review any additional allegations contained in the request for further review that were not included 
in the original complaints filed with the public body. Our office does not conduct broad audits of public bodies and 
will address only specific allegations made in an Open Meeting Law complaint. See OML 2020-2; OML 
Declination 4-22-15 (Natick Economic Development Committee). 
5 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether 
the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 
(b); see also OML 2014-94. As no executive session took place on May 4, we find that the 
Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this respect. See OML 2013-85 (finding no 
violation where a public body did not enter executive session to discuss a topic which the notice 
listed as an executive session, upon being notified that the topic was not appropriate for 
executive session).  
We take this opportunity to provide the Council with guidance regarding discussion of 
employee performance evaluations. A public body may not discuss an individual’s professional 
competence in executive session. See OML 2019-57. Performance evaluations and discussions 
of an employee’s professional competence must occur in open session. See OML 2018-38. 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Joe Viglione (via e-mail: ) 
 Medford City Council c/o Council President Richard Caraviello 
 (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
