===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 11, 2016 
OML 2016-106 
Brian Riley, Esq. 
KP-Law, P.C, 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Comnlaint 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
This office received a complaint from Brian Keaney on June 21, alleging that the 
Dedham School Building Rehabilitation Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Committee 
on or about May 18, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, to the complaint by letter 
dated June 8. In his complaint, Mr. Keaney alleges that the Committee created a subcommittee 
that has failed to comply with the law's requirements. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response to 
the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a public body that consists of eleven 
members, thus six members constitute a quorum. In 2005, Dedham Town Meeting voted to 
create the Committee to analyze and makes recommendations on the use of school facilities and 
property. Recently, the Committee had discussed the replacement or renovation of the Early 
Childhood Education Center (ECEC). In March, a majority of the Committee voted to approve a 
recommendation for Town Meeting on a proposed ECEC project at a site called "Dexter." Four 
Committee members disagreed with the Committee's recommendation and thus prepared a 
"minority report" to explain their position on the project. This minority report was sent to all 
elected Town Meeting Representatives on April 23. The Committee did not discuss this 
"minority report" during a meeting or ask these four Committee members to create such a report. 
Additionally, the Committee contends that there were no communications about the minority 
report between a quorum of the Committee outside of a noticed meeting. 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
In general, meetings of a public body must be noticed and open to the public. G.L. c. 
3OA, § 20(a), (b). A meeting is "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter 
within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A deliberation is "an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." Id A "quorum" is, generally, a 
simple majority of the members of a public body. Id. 
The complainant alleges that the four dissenting Committee members who created the 
minority report on the ECEC project constituted a subcommittee of the Committee. A 
"subcommittee" is defined as a multiple-member body created to advise or make 
recommendations to a public body. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. We find that these four Committee 
members created the report on their own initiative. See OML 2016-86.2 The Committee did not 
create this group nor assign the four members the task of creating this report on behalf of the 
Committee. See OML 2014-93. The gathering of these four members, on their own initiative, 
does not create a subcommittee, kl Because these four members constitute less than a quorum 
of the Committee and do not otherwise constitute a subcommittee, we find that they did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2016-96. Furthermore, the Committee did not 
deliberate about the minority report outside of a meeting. See OML 2014-103; OML 2013-169. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Brian Keaney 
Dedham School Building Rehabilitation Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 