===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
February 24, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 23 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Chairman Bruce Perron 
South Hadley Prudential Committee 
Fire District No. 1 
144 Newton Street 
South Hadley, MA 01075 
bperron@shdistrict1.org 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chairman Perron: 
This office received a complaint from Kevin E. Taugher on July 13, 2022, alleging that 
the South Hadley Prudential Committee, Fire District No. 1 (the “Committee”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on 
June 7, 2022, and you responded on behalf of the Committee via email dated July 12, 2022. The 
complaint alleges that the Committee posted an insufficiently specific notice for its June 8, 
2022,1 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to 
the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed the notice and 
minutes for the June 8 meeting, an email from Complainant dated August 23, and emails from 
the Committee dated January 5, 2023, and January 17, 2023. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee posted notice for a meeting to take place on 
June 8 at 4:30 p.m. The notice included, among other topics, the topic “Insurance Discussion,” 
without any additional detail. The June 8 meeting minutes state, in relevant part, as follows: 
Past Water Commissioner Member of 32 years John Mikuszewski had an insurance 
policy for a family plan. John’s wife, Evie, was told by John that she would be able to 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
keep the insurance policy after his passing. It appears that the insurance policy was 
cancelled under some misinterpretation. 
Discussion and questions. 
Legal Counsel will be consulted. 
Motion by John seconded by Ken to re-institute a duplicate health insurance 
package for Evie Mikuszewski that her husband John Mikuszewski had. 
Discussion and questions. 
Motion carried unanimous. 
In addition, under “Clerk/Treasurer’s Report,” the minutes state, “Working on insurance for 
vehicles for the complete district not just Fire Department or Water Department.” The June 8 
meeting notice did not list the Mikuszewski policy or vehicle insurance as discussion topics. Nor 
did it identify other insurance matters that would be discussed. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and that every 
notice include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A public body is 
required to list topics on a notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of 
the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a topic 
sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand 
the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35. When reviewing a 
meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a 
meeting notice standing alone. See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155.
2 Rather, we review what 
was actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently detailed to make 
the public aware of the discussion topics. 
 
The Complainant alleges that the notice was insufficient where it included the topic 
“In
surance Discussion,” without more detail. He later clarified that he was particularly concerned 
with the Board’s discussion about the Mikuszewski health insurance policy and “granting 
extensive health insurance benefits at district expense.” A public body may discuss topics not 
listed on the meeting notice, so long as the topics were not reasonably anticipated by the chair 48 
hours before the meeting. See OML 2013-197; OML 2011-13. Upon our request for clarification, 
Chairman Bruce Perron explained that Mrs. Mikuszewski had approached him “a day or two” 
before the June 8 meeting and he asked her to address the Committee. Chairman Perron does not 
recall, and we are unable to determine precisely when, Mrs. Mikuszewski informed him of the 
issue. Therefore, without evidence to the contrary, we are constrained to find that the issue of 
Ms. Mikuszewski’s health insurance policy was not reasonably anticipated 48 hours prior to the 
June 8 meeting, and we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-m eeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
regard. Public bodies, however, are encouraged not to discuss or vote on items that arise within 
that 48-hour period or during a meeting if the topic can be postponed until a later date and added 
to a properly posted meeting notice. See OML 2014-38; OML 2011-13.  
 
Although we do not find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
approved r
einstatement of the Mikuszewski health insurance policy, we note our concern 
regarding the specificity of the topic “Insurance Discussion” in the June 8 meeting notice and the 
sufficiency of the June 8 meeting minutes. Chairman Perron stated that he anticipated a general 
discussion about insurance policies including “workmen’s comp., health and dental, and 
liability.” Yet, without clarification, a reasonable person would not have necessarily understood 
that a general discussion of the Committee’s insurance policies was intended under the topic 
“Insurance Discussion.” We recommend that in the future the Committee provide additional 
clarification concerning the discussion topics on its meeting notices. Further, the meeting 
minutes do not indicate that any discussion of the above policies occurred, despite the 
Chairman’s representations to the contrary, and the summary of the Mikuszewski policy is 
insufficient. Meeting minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic. See OML 
2016-35; OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. The Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes 
include more than a statement that a public body held a discussion about a specified topic; the 
Law requires that the minutes summarize the discussion that was held. See OML 2020-55; OML 
2019-167; OML 2018-8. The Mikuszewski policy summary indicates that “Discussion and 
questions” took place at two different points of the discourse but does not elaborate on what was 
actually discussed before there was a vote to reinstate the health insurance policy. We 
recommend that the Committee amend the June 8 meeting minutes to include a summary of the 
discussion of the various insurance policies. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Mary L. Nguyen 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Kevin E. Taugher (via e- mail: ) 
  

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 