===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
January 23, 2020
OML 2020 - 6
Brian Riley, Esq.
KP Law
101 Arch Street
Boston, MA 02110
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Riley:
On August 201 this office received a complaint filed by Katherine Shea on behalf of the 
Nantucket Coastal Conservancy, alleging that the Nantucket Select Board (the “Board”) violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Board on May 22, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated June 7.
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a). 
In her complaint, Ms. Shea alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when notice 
for its May 23 meeting included the following topic for executive session:
II. EXECUTIVE SESSION, PURSUANT TO MGL C. 30A § 21(A)
1. Exemption 6: To Discuss the Purchase, Exchange, Lease or Value of Real 
Property: Analysis of Bylaw Amendments on the Authority of the Select Board to 
Grant Licenses for the Use of Town Property In Connection With Coastal Erosion 
Projects and Sewer Extension Projects - Baxter Road and Surfside Crossing, 
where the Chair has Determined that an Open Session Meeting May have a 
Detrimental Effect on the Negotiating Position of the Select Board/County 
Commissioners.
The Board responds that on May 22, the day before the meeting, the Chair determined that there 
was no need for the anticipated executive session at that time. Thereafter, the Board did not 
convene in executive session on May 23 to discuss the notice topic at issue in this complaint.
Ms. Shea does not dispute these facts, but rather asks our office to determine that had the 
Board deliberated in executive session for the above purpose, it would have violated the Open
o
1 All dates are in 2019.

===PAGE 2===
Meeting Law. We decline to do so. Instead, because the Board did not actually meet in executive 
session on May 23, we find that it did not violate the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-81.2
Although we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law, we do caution 
the Board that Purpose 6 is narrowly construed to permit a public body to meet in executive 
session to protect its negotiating position when seeking to purchase, exchange, lease or value real 
estate, or to discuss the value of real estate where it has a negotiating position relative to that 
property. See OML 2019-89.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Katherine Shea
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found online at https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law.
