===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
October 18, 2017 
OML 2017-163 
Katherine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan on August 28, alleging that the 
Ashland Board of Health (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about July 18, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated August 17. In his complaint, Mr. Morgan 
alleges that, on July 11, the Board held an unnoticed meeting following adjournment of a 
noticed meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notice, minutes, and video-recording of the Board's July 11 meeting,2 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body; thus three 
members constitute a quorum. On July 6, the Board posted notice of a July 11 meeting to 
begin at 6 PM in the Board of Selectmen's meeting room at Town Hall. The final topic on the 
notice was a concurrent meeting at 7 PM with the Nyanza Advisory Committee in Room B/C, 
which is located on another floor at Town Hall.3 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017. 
2 The video-recording is available at https://livestream.comyWACA-TVAshland/events/4739881/videos/. 
3 The notice for the Nyanza Advisory Committee meeting did not mention meeting with the Board. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
The Board convened at 6:10 PM. Three Board members were in attendance for this 
portion of the meeting, which lasted 11 minutes, during which Board Chair Judith Margulies 
informed the audience that the Board planned to recess the meeting until 7 PM to meet 
concurrently with the Nyanza Advisory Committee. The Board deferred many of its agenda 
items until then. The Board made no mention of reconvening back in the Board of 
Selectmen's meeting room. 
When the Board reconvened its meeting in Room B/C at 7:13 PM, the two remaining 
Board members joined the meeting, including Jon Fetherston, who immediately made a 
motion to return to the Board of Selectmen's meeting room to continue the meeting. The 
Board approved the motion. Two of the Board members, including Chair Margulies, voted 
against the motion and declined to attend the reconvened meeting upstairs, which lasted 
another one and one-half hours. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School 
Commission of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that, 
except in an emergency, "a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours 
prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays" and "shall contain 
the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A public body may not 
begin a meeting earlier than the posted start time. OML 2014-35; OML 2013-161.4 The law 
does not prohibit a public body from removing, postponing, or declining to discuss a topic 
listed on a meeting notice or agenda, however. OML 2012-23. 
The complaint alleges that, on July 11, the Board held an unnoticed meeting following 
the adjournment of a noticed meeting. We find that the Board had recessed, rather than 
adjourned, its meeting, with the intention of reconvening at 7 PM in the room where the 
Nyanza Advisory Committee was meeting, as indicated on the meeting notice. The Board's 
subsequent decision to return to the original meeting location to continue the meeting was 
unanticipated and thus permissible under the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2017-51; OML 
2016-54. However, we note that the Board should have posted a sign on the B/C room door 
indicating that the meeting had re-located to the Board of Selectmen's meeting room. 
Moreover, we caution public bodies on recessing a meeting for lengthy periods of time—in 
this case, approximately one hour—out of respect for the audience. See OML 2014-35 
(though not a violation of the Open Meeting Law, if a public body chooses to indicate times at 
which it anticipates different topics of discussion to occur, the body should make reasonable 
efforts to honor such representations in the interest of transparency and the expectations of 
attendees). 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
ur vn/' Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Stephen Morgan 
Ashland Board of Health 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 