===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www. mass .go v/ago 
April 19,2017 
OML 2017-62 
Michael Sacco, Esq. 
PO Box 479 
Southampton, MA 01073 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Sacco: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on March 21, alleging that the Fall 
River Retirement Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about January 26, and you responded, on 
behalf of the Board, by letter dated March 3.2 In his complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that the 
Board acted improperly by voting on a topic during its January 25 meeting that was not listed on 
the meeting notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed 
the notice and minutes of the Board's January 25 meeting. 
We find the facts as follows. During its January 25 meeting, the Board discussed a 
memorandum from the Public Employee Retirement Administration Commission ("PERAC") 
regarding the revised Pubic Records Law. The Board listed this topic on the notice as "PERAC 
Memo #1/2017 - Updated Public Records Law." Counsel for the Board provided an overview of 
the memorandum and advised that the new public records law requires the designation of a 
Records Access Officer. The Board voted to appoint the Board's Executive Director as its 
Records Access Officer. 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise indicated. 
2 Our office granted the Board an extension of time to respond to the complaint. 
FACTS 
DISCUSSION 
O 
===PAGE 2===
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post 
notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b). Public bodies 
are required to list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally 
consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read 
the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-
35.3 
The complaint alleges that the Board's vote to appoint a Records Access Officer during 
its January 25 meeting was required to be listed on the notice before the Board could take action. 
The Board contends that this appointment occurred during its discussion of a PERAC 
memorandum concerning the revised Public Records Law, listed on the notice as "PERAC 
Memo #1/2017 - Updated Public Records Law." The notice indicates that this item, among 
others, was distributed to the Board "for acknowledgement, action and/or discussion." Because 
the Board had to review the memorandum first in order to learn that the new law required the 
appointment of a Records Officer, we find that this appointment flowed naturally from its 
consideration of the memorandum. See OML 2016-150; OML 2014-112. Accordingly, the 
Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this regard. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
lanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
Fall River Retirement Board 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
http://www,mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 