===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 19, 2017 
OML 2017-193 
Brian W. Riley, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Riley; 
This office received a complaint from Lauren Walsh, dated October 12, alleging that the 
Seekonk Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§18-
25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 5, and the Board 
responded by letter dated September 22. In her complaint, Ms. Walsh alleges that the Board 
deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We reviewed the notices and minutes of Board 
meetings held on April 19 and August 9. We reviewed video recordings of these same 
meetings.2 We reviewed the minutes of a meeting of the Seekonk Veterans Memorial Park 
Committee (the "VMPC") held on April 27. Finally, we spoke with the complainant by 
telephone on December 4, and we spoke with the Board's legal counsel by telephone on 
December 7. 
We find the facts as follows. The Town of Seekonk maintains a veterans memorial on 
land adjacent to the Seekonk Public Library. This area is generally overseen by the VMPC. At 
some point in early 2017, the VMPC entered into discussions with the Army National Guard 
concerning an "indefinite loan" of a decommissioned howitzer cannon. 
The Board held a meeting on April 19. The notice of this meeting listed "Veterans 
Memorial Committee Liaison Report," but the notice did not specify what such report would 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 Video recordings of Board meetings are available here: http://tv9seekonk.com/video-on-demand/. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
contain. During this meeting, Board member David Viera, who acted as a liaison between the 
Board and the VMPC, informed the other Board members that the VMPC was considering the 
installation of the howitzer in the park. The Board did not take any votes relative to this 
announcement, but the members indicated general agreement with the news, and it was indicated 
that the VMPC would continue conversation with the Army National Guard. The town 
administrator described this as "consensus" on the topic. 
The VMPC held a meeting on April 27. During this meeting, Mr. Viera stated that the 
howitzer would be delivered on or about June 1 and that "[the] Board of Selectmen had already 
approved the move." The howitzer was delivered and installed on or about July 28. 
The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on August 9. This notice again listed 
"Veterans Memorial Committee Liaison Report," and it listed "Community Speaks," a time 
reserved for comment from the public. During the Community Speaks period, members of the 
public questioned the installation of the howitzer. At this point, the Board acknowledged that the 
matter had been raised during the April 19 meeting and that consensus had been reached on the 
topic. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Thus, the law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Open Meeting Law defines a "meeting" as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 
3OA, §18. "Deliberation" is defined, in relevant part, as "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction." Id 
The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing the 
issue of the howitzer outside of a noticed meeting. Mr. Viera raised the issue during the Board's 
April 19 meeting during the time reserved for a "Veterans Memorial Committee Liaison Report." 
To the extent that the complaint alleges that this topic was not sufficiently detailed, we note that 
the complaint was filed more than 30 days after the April 19 meeting. Because the discussion 
took place in open session during the April 19 meeting, any complaint about the sufficiency of 
the meeting notice should have been filed within 30 days of that meeting. See 940 CMR 
29.05(3); OML 2014-85.3 Accordingly, we do not consider any allegations concerning the April 
19 meeting notice. The Board stated in its response, and the Board's legal counsel stated to our 
office, that this brief acknowledgement during the April 19 was the Board's sole conversation 
about the howitzer. Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body's version 
of the facts. See OML 2017-170. We therefore find that the Board did not discuss the issue of 
the howitzer outside of a noticed meeting. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www. mass. go v/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin 
W. Mangana^ 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Lauren Walsh 
Seekonk Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 