===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL ONE ASHBURTON PLACE BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108  TEL: (617) 727-2200  www.mass.gov/ago  
 March 24, 2020         OML 2020 – 40    Joseph Callanan Town Solicitor Town of Weymouth 75 Middle Street Weymouth, MA 02189   By e-mail only: jcallanan@weymouth.ma.us  RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint Dear Attorney Callanan: This office received a complaint from Gerard Mackin on October 17, 2019 alleging that the Weymouth School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on September 10, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated February 27, 2020.2  The complaint alleges that the Committee failed to post notice of a September 9 meeting.    We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), after reviewing the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the open session minutes of the Committee’s September 9 meeting, as well as a video recording of that meeting.3  We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law.                                                    1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2019. 2 We note that the Committee did not respond to the Open Meeting Law complaint within the time frame required by law.  We remind the Committee that, unless an extension of time has been granted, the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 3 The video recording of the September 9 meeting can be found at: https://videoplayer.telvue.com/player/5ZgpAPx0jUMwAvILE2CIBql85kdlcB1R/playlists/6719/media/512547?autostart=false&showtabssearch=true&fullscreen=false&jwsource=cl. 
===PAGE 2===
2  
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Public bodies must post notice of every meeting “at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).    On Saturday, September 7, Weymouth School Superintendent Jennifer Curtis-Whipple sent an email to members of the Weymouth High School girls’ soccer team and their parents/guardians inviting them to attend a meeting on Monday, September 9 from 7 to 8 P.M. to discuss the team’s recent efforts at fundraising.4  The email was also sent to assistant superintendents, the high school principal, primary school principals, the girls’ soccer coach, the interim athletic director, the special education director, and the Committee.  The email stated that “many members of our school community and staff will be in attendance to be part of this conversation and to answer any of your questions.”    Five of the seven Committee members attended the meeting on September 9.  Chair Lisa Belmarsh served as the moderator, Committee member Rebecca Sherlock-Shangraw spoke as a college professor of physical education and discussed her experience with whiteout events, and Committee member Tracey Nardone spoke as a local business owner offering a monetary donation to the soccer team.  The two remaining Committee members who attended, Kathy Curran and Gail Sheehan, did not speak during the meeting.  Even though the Superintendent, who is not a member of the Committee, initiated the September 9 meeting, a quorum of the Committee attended that meeting.  The Open Meeting Law defines “meeting” as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  However, a quorum of one public body may be in the same place at the same time, including attending the meeting of another public body, without triggering the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, provided they do not deliberate.  See OML 2015-38; OML 2012-6.5  At the September 9 meeting, two Committee members spoke in their professional capacity, one as a teacher and one as a business owner, and not as Committee members; two members did not speak at all; and the final member acted as moderator and asked the students and parents whether they thought the actions by school personnel were appropriate.  We find, here, that a quorum of the Committee did not deliberate during the September 9 meeting because the communications by those Committee members who did speak did not relate to Committee business.  See OML 2018-92; OML 2014-122.  Therefore, there was no meeting requiring compliance with the Open Meeting Law and the Committee did not violate the law by failing to post notice.                                                   4 A proposal had been submitted to the Weymouth Public Schools for a fundraiser for the girls’ soccer team in which white t-shirts would be sold.  However, the fundraiser was marketed as a whiteout event which raised concerns among parents.  The fundraiser was subsequently cancelled. 5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
cc: Gerard Mackin – By email only:  
Weymouth School Committee c/o Chair Lisa Belmarsh –  
By email only: lisa.belmarsh@weymouthschools.org 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
