===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 12, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 61 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Peter L. Mello, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
pmello@mhtl.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Mello: 
 
This office received three complaints from Sean McNamara on October 19, 2023,
1 
alleging that the Attleboro Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Board on or about September 12, 
and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated September 26. The first complaint 
alleges that during the Board’s August 14 meeting, the Board allowed a developer, Robert 
Catenacci, to address the Board without having included this as a topic on the meeting notice. 
The second complaint alleges that the minutes of the Board’s June 5 meeting are insufficient 
where they fail to include a statement made by the City Planner regarding stormwater system 
inspections. The third complaint alleges that 1) the Board failed to timely post notice of its 
September 11 meeting, 2) Mr. Catenacci was once again allowed to address the Board without 
this topic being timely included on the meeting notice, and 3) Mr. Catenacci discussed items that 
were unanticipated by the Board. 
 
To begin, we decline to review the second complaint because it was not timely filed. 
With respect to the first and third complaints, we find that the Committee did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching these determinations, we reviewed the Open Meeting 
Law complaints, the Board’s response, and the request for further review. We also reviewed the 
notices for and minutes of the Board’s meetings held on August 14 and September 11. Finally, 
we reviewed the City’s website for notice postings. 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On June 5 the Board held a meeting. During an open 
session meeting held on July 17, the Board voted to approve the minutes of its June 5 meeting.  
 
Since December of 2021, the City’s official notice posting location has been its website, 
www.cityofattleboro.us. On August 8, the Board posted notice to the Agenda Center page of the 
City’s website for a meeting to be held on August 14. Relevant here, the notice included the 
topic heading “Correspondence,” and beneath that listed several pieces of correspondence, 
among them “Demand letter from City Solicitor Peter L. Mello, dated June 23, 2023, to Robert 
Catenacci of One Thirty-One Pleasant Street, LLC and to Sanjeev Siwach relative to the 
unacceptable conditions of the ‘STONEFIELD ESTATES, PHASE III’ subdivision.”  
 
During the August 14 meeting, the Director of Planning and Development, Gary 
Ayrassian, informed the Board that the deadline in the demand letter from the City to Mr. 
Catenacci had passed and that staff had visited the site that afternoon to determine whether the 
requested actions had been taken. Thereafter, a lengthy discussion ensued regarding what work 
included in the demand letter had been completed and what had not, and other issues related to 
the subdivision. The discussion included Mr. Catenacci providing information and answering 
questions; Mr. Ayrassian and another staff member giving their opinions about the status of the 
project; and Board members sharing their thoughts and concerns about the project. The Board 
also discussed and voted on a request for an extension of time to complete work on the 
subdivision that Mr. Catenacci had submitted the same day as the meeting.  
 
On September 6 at 2:30 p.m., the Board posted notice to the Agenda Center page of the 
City’s website for a meeting to be held on September 11 at 6:30 p.m. Relevant here, the notice 
included the topic heading “Correspondence,” and beneath that listed several pieces of 
correspondence, among them “Demand letter from City Solicitor Peter L. Mello, dated June 23, 
2023, to Robert Catenacci of One Thirty-One Pleasant Street, LLC and to Sanjeev Siwach 
relative to the unacceptable conditions of the ‘STONEFIELD ESTATES, PHASE III’ 
subdivision.” At some point, the Board posted to the calendar page of the City’s website a 
separate addendum to the September 11 meeting notice which included, under the topic 
“Appointments to Speak,” “Bob Catenacci, One Thirty One Pleasant Street, LLC – ‘STONE 
FIELD ESTATES III.’” 
 
During the September 11 meeting, Mr. Catenacci provided information and answered 
questions regarding the deadline for completion of the subdivision and why he had not removed 
equipment the Board had advised him to remove previously.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We Decl ine to Review the Sufficiency of the June 5 Meeting Minutes Because the 
Complaint Was Not Timely Filed.  
 
To be considered timely, an Open Meeting Law complaint must be filed with the public 
body within 30 days of the alleged violation, or, if the alleged violation could not reasonably 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
have been known at the time it occurred, then within 30 days of the date it should reasonably 
have been discovered. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4). When a public body approves 
meeting minutes during an open session, any complaints regarding the creation, approval, 
sufficiency, or accuracy of those minutes must be filed within 30 days of the meeting during 
which they were approved. See OML 2022-50.
2 Here, the minutes of the June 5 meeting were 
approved by the Board in open session on July 17; therefore, any complaint regarding the 
sufficiency of the June 5 meeting minutes should have been filed with the Board no later than 
August 16. Where the complaint alleging that the minutes of the June 5 meeting are insufficient 
was not filed with the Board until September 12, we decline to review that complaint.  
 
II. Notice for the August 14 Meeting was S
 ufficiently Specific.   
 
Meeting notices must include a list of the topics that the chair, and any other individual 
re
sponsible for creating the meeting notice, anticipates will be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2022-206. Public bodies are required to list topics on a notice with 
“sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body’s discussion. See OML 2022-206; OML 2015-35. When reviewing a meeting 
notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting 
notice standing alone. See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155. Rather, we review what was 
actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently specific to inform the 
public of the anticipated nature of the discussions. The Open Meeting Law does not prohibit a 
public body from removing, postponing, or declining to discuss a topic listed on a meeting notice 
or taking topics in a different order than listed on the notice. See OML 2022-187; OML 2014-35. 
 
With respect to the August 14 meeting, the Board asserts that the topic “Demand letter 
from City Solicitor Peter L. Mello, dated June 23, 2023, to Robert Catenacci of One Thirty-One 
Pleasant Street, LLC and to Sanjeev Siwach relative to the unacceptable conditions of the 
‘STONEFIELD ESTATES, PHASE III’ subdivision” was sufficient to inform the public that the 
Board might discuss a demand letter sent to Mr. Catenacci and that Mr. Catenacci might address 
the Board during such discussion. Where the discussion that occurred was reasonably related to 
the demand letter, which was a topic listed on the meeting notice, we find that the notice for the 
August 14 meeting was sufficiently specific.  
 
Although we do not find a violation here, we note our concern with the Board’s practice 
of s
ubstantively discussing one or two items listed under the heading “Correspondence” where in 
general it does not discuss the majority of the items listed under this heading. See OML 2019-95. 
We have frequently stated that the Open Meeting Law requires that a notice list topics with 
sufficient specificity so that the public can decide “whether to attend the meeting” and observe 
the discussion regarding a topic. OML 2018-22; see also, e.g., OML 2016-92; OML 2016-43; 
OML 2015-74. We recommend that if the Board anticipates substantively discussing a particular 
piece of correspondence, it list the correspondence separately to better inform the public of the 
topics anticipated for discussion. 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
III. Notice for the September 11 Meeting was Timely Posted and the Board Did Not 
Violate the Open Meeting Law When It Allowed Mr. Catenacci to Speak During the 
Meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting “at least 
48 hours pr
ior to the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). For local public bodies, notice shall be filed 
with the municipal clerk and posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours 
in or on the municipal building in which the clerk’s office is located. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c). 
However, a municipality may designate a website as an alternative notice posting location for all 
public bodies within the municipality. 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b). A municipality may only have one 
official notice posting location and if it has adopted its website as its notice posting location, then 
that is the official location for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b)(3) & 
(c). We look to the official notice posting location to determine whether a public body has 
complied with the Law. See OML 2021-18. By email in December of 2021, the Attleboro City 
Clerk informed our office that the City had adopted its municipal website, 
www.cityofattleboro.us, as its official notice posting location. Therefore, we look to the City’s 
website to determine if notice was timely posted for the Board’s September 11 meeting. Where 
notice for the September 11 meeting was posted to the City’s website on September 6 at 2:30 
p.m., more than 48 hours prior to the meeting, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged.  
 
With
 respect to the discussion concerning Mr. Catenacci’s subdivision project, the Board 
again asserts that the notice topic “Demand letter from City Solicitor Peter L. Mello, dated June 
23, 2023, to Robert Catenacci of One Thirty-One Pleasant Street, LLC and to Sanjeev Siwach 
relative to the unacceptable conditions of the ‘STONEFIELD ESTATES, PHASE III’ 
subdivision” was sufficient to inform the public of the discussion. The Board additionally asserts 
that the Chair did not learn that Mr. Catenacci would attend the meeting until the day of the 
meeting and so the discussion was unanticipated. The complaint asserts that during the Board’s 
August 14 meeting, the meeting immediately preceding the September 11 meeting, the Board 
“required Mr. Catenacci to appear at the next [Board] meeting.”  
 
After review of the minutes of the August 14 meeting, we did not find evidence 
sugges
ting that the Board had required Mr. Catenacci to attend the September 11 meeting or that 
the Board otherwise anticipated that Mr. Catenacci would attend the meeting. Additionally, the 
complaint alleges that the Board gave Mr. Catenacci a “last minute appointment to speak[, which 
was] posted publicly after 4pm.” Indeed, it appears that at some point the Board posted an 
“addendum” which listed two appointments to speak, one of which was for Mr. Catenacci. Based 
on the evidence before us, we credit the Board’s assertion that the discussion related to Mr. 
Catenacci’s subdivision project was unanticipated and we therefore find no violation with respect 
to the September 11 meeting. Although we find no violation, we remind the Board that meeting 
notices must include a list of those topics reasonably anticipated for discussion by both the chair 
and any other individual responsible for creating the meeting notice. See OML 2020-152 
(finding that where the chair of the school committee and the superintendent shared 
responsibility for creating the meeting notice, the notice should have included a topic the 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
superintendent anticipated raising, even though the chair was unaware of the topic). 
  
Finally, to the extent the complaint alleges that  the Board allowed Mr. Catenacci to speak 
at its meetings while not providing the same opportunity to other members of the public, we note 
that, even if true, this would not violate the Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting Law states 
that “no person shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all 
persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.” G.L. c. 30 A, § 20(g). The Open Meeting 
Law therefore gives discretion to the chair of a public body to determine who may speak or 
otherwise participate at a meeting, and to set restrictions on public comment. See OML 2022-
211; OML 2017-154; OML 2014-23; OML 2013-64; OML 2012-59. The Division of Open 
Government is charged specifically with reviewing complaints to determine compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law; we offer no opinion as to whether allowing certain individuals but not others 
to speak during a meeting may implicate any other laws or protections outside the scope of our 
review. In addition, although the Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow 
for public comment, we encourage public bodies to allow for as much public participation as 
time and circumstances permit. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we decline to review the second complaint and we find that 
with respect to the first and third complaints, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,      
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Attleboro Planning Board c/o Gary Ayrassian , Director of Planning and Development 
(via email: cityplanner@cityofattleboro.us)  
Kathleen M. Jackson, City Clerk (via email: cityclerk@cityofattleboro.us) 
Sean McNamara (via email: ) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
