===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
November 16, 2018
OML 2018-148
Janelle M. Austin, Esq.
KP Law, P.C.
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Austin:
This office received a complaint from Michael Rauseo, dated September 7, alleging that 
the Rockport Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on June 29, 
and the Commission responded by letter dated July 20. In his complaint, Mr. Rauseo alleges that 
the Commission misled him during a meeting about whether a certain matter would be discussed.
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Commission’s 
response, and the request for further review filed with our office. We spoke with the 
Commission’s legal counsel by telephone on September 19, and we spoke with the 
complainant’s legal counsel by telephone on November 9.2 We also reviewed the minutes of the 
Commission’s June 20 meeting, as well as a partial audio recording of this meeting provided by 
the complainant.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The complainant is affiliated with a property development 
company called The Landing Group, Inc. The complaint concerns the Commission’s June 20 
meeting. The Commission posted notice saying that it would discuss an enforcement order 
signed by the town conservation agent concerning unauthorized work by The Landing Group on 
a sea wall. The complainant and his then-attorney attended the June 20 meeting. The 
complainant’s then-attorney, believing that the Commission was misapplying governing law, 
asked the Commission to seek the advice of Town Counsel and offered to provide additional
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.

===PAGE 2===
written argument. The Commission chair said, “We would appreciate all information you could 
bring forward.” The Conservation Agent stated that the Commission needed to ratify the 
enforcement order during the June 20 meeting and therefore could not delay the discussion until 
town counsel’s opinion could be sought. The Commission chair replied, “Yup.” The 
Commission voted to continue the discussion of the enforcement order, although the 
Commission did not specify the duration of this continuance. After these statements were made, 
the complainant and his then-attorney left the meeting. The Commission then turned to several 
other pieces of business. At the end of the June 20 meeting, the Commission reopened 
discussion of the enforcement order against and complainant and voted to ratify it.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a “meeting” as “a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18.
“Deliberation” is defined as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction.” Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority 
of the members of a public body. Id.
Here, the complaint alleges that the Commission constructively deliberated on the 
enforcement order without notice, because it created the impression that the topic would be 
discussed at a later meeting and then voted on the enforcement order after the complainant had 
left. We reviewed the audio recording of the June 20 meeting and conclude that it was 
ambiguous whether the Commission would revisit the enforcement order at issue later in the 
meeting. The chair suggested that the complainant would be permitted to provide additional 
documentation, but he also responded affirmatively to the conservation agent’s statement that the 
order needed to be ratified during the June 20 meeting. We note that the Commission’s legal 
counsel stated to our office that the Commission chair made additional statements after the audio 
recording was turned off indicating that the topic would be discussed again at the end of the 
meeting.
In a past determination, we concluded that inaccurate statements by a public body chair 
violated the Open Meeting Law where the chair led members of the public to believe that the 
meeting had ended, and the public left the meeting room. See OML 2016-140. Here, in contrast, 
it was clear the June 20 meeting would continue after the Commission discussed the enforcement 
order at the beginning of the meeting: several other topics were listed on the meeting notice and 
the Board’s discussion segued directly into the next topic. Where a public body lists several 
anticipated topics on a meeting notice, the Open Meeting Law does not prohibit the body from 
discussing the topics in an order other than the one used on the notice, and the law does not 
prohibit a body from returning to a noticed topic later in a meeting to discuss it further. On these 
facts, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to this 
allegation. As a best practice, however, we encourage public bodies to make clear when they 
will be revisiting a topic later during a meeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions.
Sincerely,
Kevin W. Manganarcf—^ 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Michael Rauseo
Douglas M. Kieman, Esq.
Rockport Conservation Commission
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3
