===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
March 27, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 49 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Mark R. Reich 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
mreich@k-plaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Reich: 
This office received a complaint from Janet Sinclair on January 4, 2023, alleging that the 
Buckland Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on November 17, 
2022, and you responded on behalf of the Commission by letter dated December 8, 2022.1 The 
complaint alleges that the Commission deliberated outside of a posted meeting when it 
responded to the complainant’s allegation of a violation of the Wetland Protection Act. 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to 
the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed additional 
email correspondence the complainant sent to our Division on January 22, 2023, and minutes 
from the Commission’s November 7 meeting. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. There are five members of the Commission, thus, three 
members constitute a quorum. In May 2022, the complainant contacted the Commission by 
telephone regarding an alleged violation of the Wetland Protection Act on her property located 
on Charlemont Road, and then addressed the issue before the Commission during its June 6 
meeting. The Commission proposed, among other things, to issue a “friendly enforcement order” 
to the Town of Buckland. At a later date, two members of the Commission visited the property 
on Charlemont Road. During a meeting held on July 11, the two members reported their 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
observations to the Commission. The Commission unanimously voted to issue the enforcement 
order, to be in effect for three years. 
On October 6, the complainant emailed the Commission to renew her concerns about the 
Charlemont property and requested that the issue be placed on the notice for the Commission’s 
next meeting. In an email dated October 14, Commission member Alex Meade responded and 
stated, “the Conservation Commission issued an Enforcement Order, with which the Town has 
complied and for which the Commission has conducted several follow-up site visits including 
one this week. We consider this case closed.” At the Commission’s November 7 meeting, during 
the public comment period, the complainant expressed her disagreement with the Commission’s 
decision. The Commission reiterated its position and stated that if the complainant disagreed, she 
may file an appeal with the Department of Environmental Protection. It also noted that the 
Commission is not required to address every complaint that comes before it. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-
(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, 
however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling 
information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or 
documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is “a simple 
majority of the members of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A one-way communication from 
one public body member to a quorum on business within a body’s jurisdiction is deliberation, 
even if no other members respond. See OML 2020-136.
2 
 
It appears that the complainant is alleging that the Commission improperly deliberated 
outside of a meeting when it sent her the October 14 email declining to review her renewed 
complaint concerning the property at Charlemont Road. In its response, the Commission denied 
that any such deliberation occurred, and explained that the October 14 email was communication 
between one member of the Commission to the complainant. We agree that Mr. Meade’s 
October 14 email to the complainant does not constitute deliberation, which is defined in the 
Open Meeting Law, in part, as communication “between or among a quorum of a public body” 
and does not include communications to non-public body members. To the extent that the 
complainant alleges that the Commission may have deliberated outside of a meeting before Mr. 
Meade sent the email, the complainant does not provide any additional information to support 
this allegation, such as when such deliberation allegedly occurred or who was involved. The 
Commission states that deliberation over the complaint took place at a duly noticed meeting held 
on July 11, and the email to the complainant referred to the actions taken at that meeting. Absent 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s account of the facts. See OML 
2019-73; OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141; See also LaPointe v. License Board of Worcester, 389 
Mass. 454 (1983) (“There is every presumption in favor of the honesty and sufficiency of the 
motives actuating public officers in actions ostensibly taken for the general welfare.”). 
Therefore, we do not find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We 
now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination 
does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Commission. 
Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Mary L. Nguyen 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Janet Sinclair (via e-mail:  
Buckland Conservation Commission c/o Karen Blom, Town Clerk (via e-mail: 
twnclerk@town.buckland.ma.us) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
