===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
November 14, 2011 
OML 2011 - 49 
Clayton E. Rice 
Chairman 
Oakham Board of Selectmen 
2 Coldbrook Road 
Unit #1 
Oakham, MA 01068 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chairman Rice: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Jeffrey Howard, dated April 6, 2011, alleging 
that the Oakham Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that during the Board's executive session on 
November 22, 2010, the Board's vice chair, Eliot Starbard, discussed an issue with the Board 
that was beyond the Board's executive session purpose.' The complaint was originally filed with 
the Board on or about February 7, 2011. The Board responded to the complaint in a letter dated 
March 28, 2011, following an extension granted by this office. 
We reviewed the complaints filed on February 7, 2011 and April 6, 2011; the Board's 
response dated March 28, 2011; and the notice and open and executive session minutes for the 
Board's November 22, 2010 meeting. We also reviewed the minutes of the Board's November 
29, 2010 meeting. 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by considering a topic in 
executive session that was not appropriate for discussion under the specific purpose the Board 
1  The complaint additionally alleges that the Board's vice chair made false statements and conducted public business 
despite a conflict of interest. Because these are complaints that do not allege a violation of the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, we decline to review them, and have advised the complainant that these matters are more 
appropriate for other agencies that may have enforcement authority over the laws he alleges were violated, such as 
the State Ethics Commission. 
1 
===PAGE 2===
cited when entering executive session during its November 22, 2010 meeting. However, we find 
that the Board's subsequent actions effectively cured the violation. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the materials listed above, the facts are as follows. 
The Oakham Board of Selectmen held a meeting on November 22, 2010. The meeting notice 
listed one topic as "Executive Session pursuant to MGL Chapter 30A, Section 21. Exemption #2 
to discuss strategy session in preparation for negotiations (Regular meeting will not reconvene)." 
According to the Board's March 28, 2011 letter, the purpose of the executive session was to 
negotiate the salary and contract for the new chief of police. In entering executive session at the 
November 22, 2010 meeting, the minutes state that "[Selectman] Bergin made a motion to enter 
executive session at 7:25p.m. for exception #2." 
The Board entered executive session and met with current Police Chief Fred Gehring. 
Following negotiations with Police Chief Gehring, the minutes state that "[Selectman Dennis 
Bergin] made a motion to pay Chief Gehring a salary of $29.68 per hour based on a minimum of 
20 hours per week. Mr. Rice seconded, motion carries. There was a roll call vote; Mr. Rice voted 
yes, Mr. Starbard voted yes and Mr. Bergin voted yes." 
The minutes state that, following the salary and benefit discussions, Vice Chair Eliot 
Starbard "reminded the board that the town is responsible for paying [for] the lettering on the 
new cruiser which was scheduled to be lettered months ago, but was canceled by [Police]Chief 
Haapakoski at the last minute." The minutes do not reflect any further discussion or action taken 
by the Board. Following the executive session, the Board adjourned the meeting. 
On November 29, 2010, the Board met in open session. At this meeting, Selectmen 
Bergin announced the results of the negotiations with Police Chief Gehring that took place 
during the Board's November 22, 2010 executive session. The Board also approved a motion to 
open the warrant for the December 13, 2010 Special Town Meeting, which according to the 
Board's March 28, 2010 letter, included payment for the cruiser lettering bill mentioned by 
Selectmen Bergin during the Board's November 22, 2010 executive session. The minutes do not 
reflect any discussion by the Board prior to its approval of the motion to open the warrant. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law permits public bodies to enter executive session, or closed 
session, for certain purposes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21. When meeting in executive session, a 
public body may only address subjects related to the narrow executive session purpose the public 
body cited when entering executive session. See District Attorney for the Northwestern District 
v. Selectmen of Sunderland, 11 Mass. App. Ct. 663, 666 (1981) (executive session may not be 
used as a blanket reason to deliberate on matters other than those pertaining to the specific 
purpose for which executive session was called). 
One appropriate purpose for executive session is "[t]o conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)2 ("Purpose 2"). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Although a public body may reach an agreement on the terms of a contract or collective 
bargaining agreement in executive session, the public body is not authorized to approve such 
agreements in executive session. The public body must still vote to approve or ratify such 
agreements in open session before they become effective. See OML 2011-28 at page 4 ("A 
public body may reach an agreement on the terms of a contract in executive session, but then 
must ratify any terms agreed to immediately upon returning to open session.") 
The complaint alleges that the Board entered executive session under Purpose 2 and, in 
addition to settling on the terms of the Police Chief' s contract, discussed or mentioned an 
invoice. Indeed, the executive session minutes indicate that Selectman Starbard, "reminded the 
board that the town is responsible for paying the lettering on the new cruiser which was 
scheduled to be lettered months ago, but was canceled by [Police]Chief Haapakoski at the last 
minutes." Thus, the Board discussed a matter in executive session that was unrelated to the 
stated purpose of the session. 
In its defense, the Board cites G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3), commonly known as Purpose 3. 
Under that section of the Open Meeting Law, a public body may enter into executive session to 
"discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have 
a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares." Id. Although acknowledging that it did not cite Purpose 3 when it entered executive 
session on November 22, 2010, the Board argues that, it "would have had authority to be in 
executive session for the purposes of discussing strategy with respect to collective bargaining." 
It is not clear to us how a reminder of a police cruiser lettering invoice relates to collective 
bargaining. However, we need not decide whether or not the discussion would have been 
appropriate under Purpose 3. Because the Board did not cite Purpose 3, the Board could not 
engage in any discussion of a topic outside of Purpose 2. The mention or discussion of an 
invoice unrelated to a contract negotiation for non-union personnel was not appropriate for the 
executive session convened at the Board's November 22, 2010 meeting. 
Although a member of the Board raised an issue that was not appropriate for the specific 
executive session held during the November 22, 2010 meeting, the minutes reflect no further 
discussion by the Board, nor any votes taken by the Board members, regarding the invoice. The 
invoice was considered by the Board at an open session during its November 29, 2010 meeting, 
as part of a vote to open a warrant for a Special Town Meeting on December 13, 2010. Although 
the minutes do not reflect any specific discussion of the invoice, the Board took action in open 
session. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board considered a topic that was not appropriate for consideration 
under the specific purpose cited when it entered executive session during its November 22, 2010 
meeting. However, we find that the Board did not engage in any substantive discussion during 
the executive session, nor did the Board take any action on the topic. The Board's subsequent 
action of considering the topic during an open session effectively cured the violation. We 
remind the Board members to avoid raising topics during executive session that are not covered 
by the specific executive session purpose cited by the Board when entering that executive 
session. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Sincer y 
d onathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this letter, 
please do not hesitate to contact me at the number below. 
cc: Mr. Jeffrey Howard 
4 