===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
July 25, 2012 
OML 2012 - 61 
John Davis, Esq. 
Pierce, Davis & Perritano, LLP 
90 Canal Street 
Boston, MA 02114 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint — Barnstable Town Council 
Dear Attorney Davis: 
This office received three Open Meeting Law complaints from Mr. James Crocker, one 
dated April 11, 2011 and two dated September 8, 2011, alleging that the Barnstable Town 
Council (the "Council") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The April 11, 
2011 complaint specifically alleges that, during the Council's February 17, 2011 executive 
session, the Council President "allowed discussions of a public employee to digress to 
reputation, character, professional competence of said [employee] without first allowing the 
employee to be present, with or without representation, in the executive session." Additionally, 
the complaint charges that the executive session was not listed in the notice for the Council's 
February 17, 2011 meeting, but was reasonably anticipated by the Council President at least 48 
hours before the meeting. The complaint was filed with the Council on March 10, 2011. The 
Council responded by letter dated March 30, 2011. The second complaint was filed with the 
Council on March 30, 2011, and specifically alleges that the Council met on March 17, 2011 in 
executive session to discuss contract negotiations with a Town employee, however, linlembers 
of the body spoke to professional competence" and "reputation and character" of the employee. 
The Council responded to this complaint by letter dated August 15, 2011. 1  The third complaint 
was filed with the Council on April 8, 2011, and specifically alleges that the Council failed to 
announce at its April 7, 2011 open meeting a determination with respect to the review and 
release of executive session minutes from the Council's March 17, 2011 meeting. The complaint 
was filed with the Council on April 8, 2011, and the Council responded by letter on August 15, 
2011. 
1  This office granted the Council multiple extensions to respond to the second two complaints filed with the Council. 
The reasons for these extensions are discussed below. 
===PAGE 2===
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law in several 
instances by discussing topics that were not appropriate given the stated executive session 
purpose. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the March 10, 2011 complaint and the 
Council's March 30, 2011 response; the March 30, 2011 complaint and the Council's August 15, 
2011 response; the April 8, 2011 complaint and the Council's August 15, 2011 response; and the 
April 11, 2011 and September 8, 2011 complaints filed with our office. We also reviewed the 
notices for and minutes of the Council's February 17, 2011 and March 17, 2011 executive 
session meetings.' Finally, we interviewed, by telephone, current and former Council members 
Ann Canedy, President Frederick Chirigotis, James Crocker, Henry Farnham, Janet Joakim, 
Gregory Milne, James Munafo, and John Norman. 
FACTS 
The Barnstable Town Council consists of 13 elected members. The Council oversees a 
staff that includes a town manager and a Council administrator. In early 2011, the Council's 
Administrator was Donald Grissom and the Town Manager was John Klinmi. The Council 
president is Frederick Chirigotis. The complainant, James Crocker, was a member of the 
Council at the time he filed the complaints. 
On February 17, 2011, the Council met in executive session to discuss "contract 
negotiations with nonunion personnel: the council's administrative assistant." The complainant 
was not present at this meeting. The executive session was not listed in the notice for the 
Council's February 17, 2011 meeting. President Chirigotis told our office that he called for the 
executive session because Mr. Grissom had asked for a raise. It is not clear when Mr. Girssom 
asked for a raise, or if President Chirigotis was aware of Mr. Grissom's request more than 48 
hours before the February 17, 2011 Council meeting. There was some disagreement among the 
councilors we interviewed as to what occurred during that meeting. Except for President 
Chirigotis, all the councilors we interviewed stated that they were unaware of the nature of the 
topic before the executive session. After President Chirigotis raised the issue of the 
Administrator's contract, the conversation quickly turned to other considerations. The Council 
discussed whether to combine the administrator position with another position, and what the 
administrator position entailed. Most of the councilors recalled discussion of Mr. Grissom's 
professional competence as part of a discussion of whether to offer the at-will employee a 
contract. Also, most of the councilors stated that the discussion did not involve Mr. Grissom's 
reputation or character. However, a few councilors recalled side conversations that may have 
touched upon reputation and character. Some of the side conversations were reined in by Town 
Counsel Ruth Weil. At times, Town Counsel also reined in the main discussion when 
Councilors began to focus on Mr. Grissom's professional competence instead of his contract. 
The Council ultimately decided to seek a job description for the administrator position before 
discussing Mr. Grissom's contract. According to the minutes, the session lasted about 20 
minutes. Mr. Grissom was not present during the executive session. 
The complaint alleges that, following the executive session, President Chirigotis met with 
Mr. Grissom and asked him to resign. According to the complainant, who was not present 
during this discussion, President Chirigotis told Mr. Grissom that the meeting did not go well for 
1  The executive session minutes for February 17, 2011 were publicly released on March 17, 2011. The executive 
session minutes for March 17, 2011were publicly released on November 17, 2011. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
him and that Mr. Grissom should resign. The Cape Cod Times similarly reported that President 
Chirigotis told Mr. Grissom that it was unlikely he would receive a raise and it was possible he 
would be fired. See Barnstable election brings council drama to a head, Patrick Cassidy, CAPE 
COD TIMES, November 6, 2011. Mr. Grissom submitted a resignation letter on February 18, 
2011, effective April 29, 2011. On March 14, 2011, the Town of Barnstable sent a letter to Mr. 
Grissom separating him from employment, effective on that date. 
On March 17, 2011, the Council entered executive session "to conduct contract 
negotiations with non-union personnel." The "non-union personnel" with whom the Council 
was negotiating was Town Manager John Klimm. At that time, Mr. Klimm was in the first year 
of a five-year contract. During the executive session, Mr. Klimm addressed the Council, reading 
from a three-page prepared statement. Much of the discussion that followed resulted in conflict 
between Mr. Klimm and certain Council members. The Council discussed whether Mr. Klimm 
should continue to serve in his position. The Council also took a "straw vote" by roll call on 
whether to continue to support Mr. Klimm as Town Manager. The meeting ended when four 
Councilors walked out, leaving less than a quorum present. 
On April 7, 2011, the Council met in open session and unanimously voted to postpone 
approval of the minutes of the Council's March 17, 2011 meeting until May 5, 2011. At the 
Council's May 5, 2011 meeting, the Council voted unanimously to postpone approval of the 
March 17, 2011 minutes until the Council's May 19, 2011 meeting. The minutes of the March 
17, 2011 meeting were approved by an 11-1 vote at the Council's May 19, 2011 meeting. The 
May 19, 2011 minutes do not state whether the Council President announced that the March 17, 
2011 executive session minutes would continue to be withheld from public disclosure. The 
executive session minutes were publicly released on November 17, 2011. 
Open Meeting Law complaints were filed with the Council on March 10, 2011; March 
30, 2011; and April 8, 2011. The Council attempted to respond to the second two Open Meeting 
Law complaints during its May and June meetings, but was unable to enter executive session due 
to an inability to obtain a quorum to hold the meeting. At issue was the three-page document 
read aloud by Mr. Klimm during the March 17, 2011 executive session. Several councilors 
demanded that the three-page statement be added to the minutes. Because the Council could not 
agree on this point, it was unable to muster the votes to hold an executive session meeting to 
address the Open Meeting Law complaints until August 4, 2011. 1  During this time, our office 
granted several extensions to respond to the complaints, and strongly encouraged the Council 
members to meet and vote on a resolution to the complaints. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Notice of every meeting of a public body must be posted 
"at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays," and 
every notice shall include "the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that 
the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
1  While public bodies may enter into executive session to discuss an Open Meeting Law complaint, they are not 
required to do so, and may opt to discuss such complaints in open session. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
A public body may enter executive—or closed—session, for any of ten enumerated 
purposes, provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of members of 
the body have voted to go into executive session, and that the vote of each member is recorded 
by roll call and entered into the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)–(b). The chair must also 
publicly state the purpose for executive session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(b). Among the ten enumerated purposes for executive session is Purpose 1, which allows a 
public body to enter executive session to "discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or 
mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). 
The individual to be discussed in such an executive session must be notified in writing by the 
public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session, and has the right to be 
present during deliberations, and the right to speak on his own behalf. Id. Another purpose for 
executive session is Purpose 2, "[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations 
with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations 
with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2). 
Public bodies must also "create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The minutes of all open sessions "shall be created and approved in 
a timely manner." Id. at § 22(c). A public body must publicly release executive session minutes 
"[w]hen the purpose for which a valid executive session was held has been served." Id. at § 
22(0. The public body must proactively review its executive session minutes "at reasonable 
intervals" to determine if continued non-disclosure is warranted. Id. at § 22(g). The body's 
determination must be announced at the body's next meeting following the review, and included 
in the minutes of that meeting. Id. 
1. The Council's February 17, 2011 Executive Session Violated the Open Meeting 
Law Because the Council Discussed Topics that were Not Appropriate for 
Executive Session.  
The first complaint alleges that the Council President "allowed discussions of a public 
employee to digress to reputation, character, professional competence of said [employee] without 
first allowing the employee to be present, with or without representation, in the executive 
session" during the Council's February 17, 2011 executive session. During that executive 
session, the Council met to discuss "contract negotiations with nonunion personnel: the council's 
administrative assistant." A public body may enter executive session under Purpose 2 "[t]o 
conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct 
collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 21(a)(2). 
The Council entered executive session on February 17, 2011 to discuss the status of the 
Council Administrator's contract. The Administrator had no contract in place at this point, and 
was an at-will employee. President Chirigotis initiated this discussion to consider strategy with 
respect to negotiating a contract with the Administrator. After President Chirigotis raised the 
4 
===PAGE 5===
issue, however, the conversation quickly turned to other considerations, such as whether to offer 
the Administrator a contract at all; whether to combine the administrator role with another 
administrative position; what the administrator position entailed; and whether the current 
Administrator was competent to perform the job. While the topic anticipated by the President 
was appropriate for executive session under Puipose 2, the topics that were actually discussed 
should have been discussed in open session. However, we do not believe, as the complainant 
contends, that the Council engaged in any substantive discussion of the Administrator's 
reputation or character during this twenty-minute session, thus the Council did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law by not affording the rights guaranteed under Purpose 1 to the Administrator. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(1). 
Additionally, the complaint alleges that the executive session was not listed on the 
Council's meeting notice for the February 17, 2011 meeting, even though it was reasonably 
anticipated by the Council President at least 48 hours before the meeting. Notice of every 
meeting of a public body must include "the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). It is not clear from our interview with President Chirigotis whether he anticipated 
discussing Mr. Grissom's contract status with the Council more than 48 hours before the 
Council's February 17, 2011 meeting. However, at some point before the meeting, President 
Chirigotis did anticipate discussing Mr. Grissom's contract status with the Council . President 
Chirigotis therefore should have listed the executive session in the meeting notice before the 
February 17, 2011 meeting, or postponed the discussion until the topic could be included in a 
notice for a future meeting. 
2. The Council's March 17, 2011 Executive Session Violated the Open Meeting 
Law Because the Council Discussed Topics that were Not Appropriate for  
Executive Session.  
The second complaint alleges that the Council met on March 17, 2011 in executive 
session to discuss contract negotiations with the Town Manager, John Klimm, however, 
"[m]embers of the body spoke to professional competence" and "reputation and character" of the 
Town Manager. On March 17, 2011, the Council entered executive session "to conduct contract 
negotiations with non-union personnel." As stated above, a public body may enter executive 
session under Purpose 2 "[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with 
nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with 
nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2). 
The minutes of the March 17, 2011 meeting reflect a tense discussion between Mr. 
Klimm and members of the Council, as well as tense discussions between Council members. At 
the time, Mr. Klimm was in the first year of a five-year contract. While there was some 
discussion regarding amending Mr. Klimm's contract, the core of the discussion was Mr. 
Klimm's relationship with the Council. Mr. Klimm read a three-page statement to the Council. 
Council members responded. The Council even took a vote during the executive session on 
whether to continue to support Mr. Klimm as Town Manager. This discussion, although 
potentially embarrassing or controversial if revealed to the public, was not appropriate for 
executive session. The discussion involved Mr. Klimm's relationship with the Council and his 
job performance. The Council was not, at that time, negotiating or renegotiating a contract. 
5 
===PAGE 6===
Therefore, the entire session should have been conducted in public. We do not believe, as the 
complainant contends, that the Council discussed the Town Manager's reputation or character 
during this session, thus the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law by not affording the 
rights guaranteed under Purpose 1 to the Town Manager. See G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(1). 
Although not raised in the complaint, we also note that before entering executive session 
during the March 17, 2011 meeting, President Chirigotis stated that the Council would enter 
executive session "to conduct contract negotiations with non-union personnel." He did not state 
with whom the Council would be negotiating. Prior to entering, the chair of a public body must 
publicly state the purpose for an executive session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21 (b). President Chirigotis should therefore have stated that the Council was entering executive 
session to conduct contract negotiations with Town Manager Klimm. $ee OML 2012-10; OML 
2011-15.1  
3. The Council Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Announce the  
Status of the Minutes of the March 17, 2011 Meeting at its April 7, 2011 Meeting.  
The third complaint alleges that the Council failed to announce at its April 7, 2011 
meeting its determination with respect to the review and release of executive session minutes 
from its March 17, 2011 meeting. The minutes of all open sessions "shall be created and 
approved in a timely manner." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). A public body must release executive 
session minutes "[w]hen the purpose for which a valid executive session was held has been 
served." kl. at § 22(f). In addition, the Open Meeting Law requires that a public body must 
proactively review executive session minutes "at reasonable intervals" to determine if continued 
non-disclosure is warranted. Id. at § 22(g). The body's determination must be announced at the 
body's next meeting following the review, and included in the minutes of that meeting. Id. 
Here, the Council voted to postpone approval of the March 17, 2011 minutes until May 
19, 2011, at which time the minutes were approved. The chair is only required to announce at a 
meeting the status of executive session minutes after a review has been conducted, either at the 
public body's own volition or because a review had been specifically requested by an individual. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g). The Council had no legal obligation to inform the public of the 
purpose for continued non-disclosure of the March 17, 2011 executive session minutes at the 
April 7, 2011 meeting, therefore, because the Council had not yet undertaken a review of the 
minutes and no formal request for the minutes had been made. The minutes for the March 17, 
2011 meeting were not reviewed until May 19, 2011. The Council approved the March 17, 2011 
minutes at the May 19, 2011 meeting, but it is not clear whether the Council announced at that 
time that the executive session minutes would continue to be withheld from public disclosure. 
The May 19, 2011 minutes did not include a statement regarding the status of the March 17, 
2011 executive session minutes, as required by G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g). Following any review of 
executive session minutes for approval or accuracy, a public body should state for the record, 
and include in the minutes, whether the executive session minutes will continue to be withheld 
from public disclosure or if they will be publicly released. The Council should have stated at the 
1  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
6 
===PAGE 7===
May 19, 2011 meeting that the executive session minutes for March 17, 2011, though approved, 
would continue to be withheld from public disclosure. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by conducting business in 
executive session that should have been conducted in public on both February 17, 2011 and 
March 17, 2011, and by failing to include sufficient detail about an executive session topic in the 
notice for the Council's February 17, 2011 meeting. We find that the Council did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law by failing to announce the status of the March 17, 2011 executive session 
minutes at its April 7, 2011 meeting. However, following its May 19, 2011 approval of those 
executive session minutes, the Council should have stated that it would continue to withhold the 
executive session minutes from public disclosure. 
We order the Council's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, 
and caution that future similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We do not order training on the Open Meeting Law because we understand that many Council 
members attended a training conducted by our office in Barnstable shortly after the violations 
discussed herein occurred. However, we order that any current members of the Council who 
were not present for that training view the training video available at the Attorney General's 
website,1  and that the Council certify within 30 days after receiving this determination that all 
members have attended or reviewed the video of an Open Meeting Law training conducted by 
the Attorney General's Office. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during this investigation, and 
now consider this matter closed. Please contact me if you have any questions regarding this 
letter. 
onathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: James Crocker 
Frederick Chirigotis 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting  
7 