===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
February 14, 2025 
 
OML 2025 – 13 
        
VIA EMAIL 
 
Michael Manuel Harvey, Ed.D.  
Superintendent 
Masconomet Regional School Committee 
20 Endicott Rd. 
Boxford,  MA 01921 
 
mharvey@masconomet.org 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Dr. Harvey: 
 
This office received a complaint from Katherine Carlson on December 27, 2024, alleging 
that the Masconomet Regional School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on 
September 23, 2024, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letters dated October 11 
and October 28.1  The complaint alleges that minutes of the Committee’s August 28 meeting 
were not sufficiently detailed.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee’s responses to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We 
also reviewed the original and amended minutes of the August 28 meeting and the minutes of the 
September 11, October 9 and October 23 meetings. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On August 26, the Committee posted notice of a “retreat” 
to occur on August 28 at The Center at 10 Elm St., Boxford.  The retreat, or meeting, took place 
as scheduled.2  Minutes were approved at the Committee’s next meeting, on September 11.  As 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2024. 
2 A gathering that otherwise meets the Law’s definition of a “meeting” will be subject to the L aw’s requirements, 
even if it is called a “retreat.”  See, e.g., OML 2020-13.   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
to multiple topics discussed during the August 28 retreat, the minutes reflect that discussions 
occurred but fail to include any summary of those discussions.  For example, on the topic of 
school committee roles and responsibilities, “[p]ublic comment was discussed.”  Similarly, 
minutes reflect that break out groups analyzed Committee goals, “presented their analysis and 
discussion followed” but they do not provide a summary of that discussion.   
 
At its next meeting following the filing of the instant Open Meeting Law Complaint, on 
October 9, the Committee approved amended minutes, providing further detail about the 
discussions that transpired at the August 28 retreat.  Upon review of same, the complainant 
expressed continued dissatisfaction with the minutes.  The Committee next met on October 23 
and again discussed the Open Meeting Law complaint.  (Between the October 9 and October 23 
meetings, it came to light that the Committee had received, and initially responded to, an 
incomplete copy of the Open Meeting Law complaint.)   The Committee voted to further amend 
the August 28 minutes and the Committee’s response to the Open Meeting Law complaint.   
   
The minutes of the August 28 retreat, as revised at the October 23 meeting, contain 
further detail about some discussion topics.  For example, the amended minutes list the strengths, 
weaknesses, opportunities and threats that were analyzed (the “SWOT analysis”) during the 
retreat.  The discussion of goals also was summarized.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); 940 CMR 29.11(1).  Although minutes must 
include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes 
do not need to include every remark or opinion presented.  See OML 2023-35; OML 2019-81; 
OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55.3  When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement.  By substantial 
compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a 
member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear 
understanding of what occurred.  See OML 2024-257; OML 2023-35; OML 2021-140.  The 
Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes include more than a statement that a public 
body held a discussion about a specified topic; the Law requires that the minutes summarize the 
substance of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2024-198; OML 2020-53; OML 2018-8. 
We encourage public bodies to include dissenting or minority opinions whenever feasible.  See 
OML 2024-198; OML 2023-9; OML 2019-163.  While it is not necessary to record the 
comments of every speaker, if a particular individual speaks at some length or is the only one to 
offer an argument for or against a proposal, that person and their comments should be identified 
in the minutes.  See OML 2023-9; OML 2019-163; OML 2012-29. 
 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
As originally drafted and approved on September 11, the minutes of the August 28 
meeting were not sufficiently detailed.  They reflected that the Committee had certain 
discussions but did not summarize the substance of those discussions.  As a result, a member of 
the public who did not attend the meeting could not have understood from the original minutes 
what occurred at the meeting.  In creating insufficiently detailed minutes, the Committee violated 
the Open Meeting Law.   
 
We commend the Committee for amending minutes of the August 28 meeting with 
greater detail.  Even as amended, however, the minutes are inadequately detailed where they 
omit summaries of some discussions.  Specifically, the minutes should include summaries of 
discussions of the SWOT Analysis, the capital plan presentations, and any other discussions that 
were not summarized in the amended minutes.  At the Committee’s October 23 meeting, 
members noted that the August 28 meeting was a “working session” or a “high-level discussion,” 
without a motion made or a vote taken.  We remind the Committee, however, that there is 
nothing within the Open Meeting Law that relaxes the mandate of detailed minutes where a 
discussion is “high-level” or does not lead to a vote.
4   
 
Finally, we must determine whether this violation was, as the complainant urges, an 
intentional one.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a 
public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 
29.02.  An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate 
ignorance of the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates 
the Open Meeting Law.  Id.  The complainant suggests that members intentionally took 
inadequate notes and chose not to record the August 28 meeting, so that the Committee could 
evade the Law’s requirement of specificity.  Based upon our review of the documents, however, 
we conclude that to the extent that notes (and as a result, minutes) were deficient, the deficiency 
was based on a misperception that minutes of a retreat or “working session” did not require the 
same level of detail as those of the Committee’s regular meetings.  Moreover, as the Committee 
points out, the Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body record its meetings.  
Finally, we have not previously warned the Committee about the specificity of its minutes. 
Therefore, we find that the violation was not intentional. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by creating insufficiently detailed amended minutes of its August 28 meeting. We order the 
Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  We additionally 
order the Committee, within 30 days of the date of this letter, to amend the minutes of its 
August 28 meeting to substantively and accurately summarize the discussions held on each topic 
and to certify to our office that it has done so. 
 
 
4 In her request for review, the complainant also suggests that meetings of the Committee’s subcommittees are 
inaccessible, as they take place “in a basement room in the back of the superintendent’s office, which is non -ADA 
accessible.”  We decline to review any allegation not raised in the complaint filed with the Committee.  See  G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3), see also OML 2024-167, n. 3; OML 2023-136, n. 2; OML 2019-99, n. 2. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
  
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Katherine Carlson (via e-mail: ) 
Joe McLean, Chair, Masconomet School Committee (via e-mail: 
jmclean@masconomet.org) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
