===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 29, 2018 
OML 2018-126 
Arthur D. Frank, Jr., Esq. 
Law Offices of Arthur D. Frank, Jr. 
209 Bedford Street, Suite 402 
Fall River, MA 02720 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Frank: 
This office received four complaints from Patrick Higgins on July 24 alleging that the 
Swansea Board of Selectmen (the "Board"), Swansea Planning Board ("Planning Board"), 
Swansea Library Director Search Committee ("Committee"), and Swansea Library Board of 
Trustees ("Trustees") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c, 30A, §§ 18-25.1 Each complaint 
was filed with the respective public body on July 2, and you responded, on behalf of each public 
body, by separate letters dated July 16. In his complaints, Mr. Higgins alleges that each of the 
four public bodies violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely respond to a request for 
meeting minutes. 
Following our review, we find that the Board, Planning Board, Committee, and Trustees 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to respond to a request for meeting minutes within 10 
days. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the responses to those 
complaints, and the requests for further review filed with our office. 
We find the facts as follows. On Friday, June 22, at 2:00 P.M., the complainant sent an 
e-mail to the Town Clerk, as Records Access Officer, and Jordan Remy, Administrative 
Assistant to the Board, also copying Town Administrator John McAuliffe. The e-mail requested 
"all meeting notices, open session minutes and executive session minutes for the [Committee], 
whether accepted or draft. I DO NOT WISH TO PURCHASE COPIES OF THESE 
DOCUMENTS, ONLY TO SIT DOWN AT A TABLE OR DESK AND REVIEW THEM. I am 
also requesting the minutes of both the meeting of the [Trustees], and [Board] from June 21, 
2018 and the [Planning Board] meeting from Monday, June 18, 2018." (Emphasis in original). 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
The request stated that it was being made pursuant to both the Open Meeting Law and the Public 
Records Law. 
On Tuesday, July 3, Mr. Remy responded stating "[w]e have arranged for you to review 
these records on Tuesday, July 10 at 11:00 AM, please let me know if you are able to make this 
time." Mr, Remy explained that "your e-mail was not seen in this office until Monday, June 25th. 
Given the receipt date, the ten day requirement would be tomorrow (or the following date due to 
the holiday)." There is no indication that the Town Clerk or Mr. Remy were out of the office on 
the date the request was sent, or that the complainant received notification of any absence via an 
e-mail out of office auto-response. 
DISCUSSION 
Public bodies must create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings. G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(a). The minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft form, shall 
be made available upon request by any person within 10 days. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). A public 
body must also respond to a request for executive session minutes within 10 days. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(g)(2). If the public body or a designee has determined, prior to the request, that certain 
executive session minutes may be released, it should respond to the requester directly, notifying 
him or her of the availability of those minutes. See OML 2013-105; OML 2013-99.2 And if, at 
the time of a request, the public body has not conducted a review of the minutes to determine 
whether continued nondisclosure is warranted, the body must perform such a review and release 
the minutes, if appropriate, no later than its next meeting or within 30 days, whichever occurs 
first. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). In such circumstances, the body must still respond to the 
requestor within 10 days, notifying him or her that it is conducting this review. See OML 2013-
99. 
The complainant contends that the request to review meeting minutes was received on 
June 22, and thus the Board, Planning Board, Committee, and Trustees failed to timely respond 
to the request when Mr. Remy responded, on their behalf, eleven days later on July 3. 
Collectively, the public bodies argue that the request was not received until June 25, making the 
July 3 response timely. Here, the request for minutes was sent by e-mail directly to the Town 
Clerk and Mr. Remy during business hours on June 22, Most requests for government 
documents are governed by the Public Records Law, which states that a written request for 
records will be deemed received on the first business day following receipt of the request. See 
950 C.M.R. 32.06(2)(e). However, requests for minutes of a public body's meeting are governed 
by the Open Meeting Law, which contains no such similar provision. See G.L. c, 3OA, § 22; see 
also OML 2014-32; OML 2013-18, We conclude that the request was received by the public 
bodies on June 22 - the day it was emailed to the Town Clerk and Mr. Remy during business 
hours - and thus they had 10 calendar days from that date to provide a response. See OML 
2015-17; OML 2013-120. Because the Board, Planning Board, Committee, and Trustees did not 
respond to the June 22 request until 11 days later, we find that they violated the Open Meeting 
Law. See OML 2017-159. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney Generals website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
We note that if the tenth day falls on a weekend or legal holiday, the public body would 
have until the following business day to reply to the request. See G.L. c. 4, § 9 ("when the day 
or the last day for the performance of an act. . . authorized or required by statute or by contract, 
falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, the act may ... be performed on the next succeeding business 
day"); see also G.L. c. 41, § 110A ("the provisions of section nine of chapter four shall apply in 
the case of such closing of any such office on any Saturday to the same extent as if Saturday 
were a legal holiday"); OML 2013-131. Here, however, the tenth day following receipt of the 
request was Monday, July 2, which was neither a weekend nor a legal holiday. 
We must determine whether this violation was, as the complainant urges, an intentional 
one. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an "act or omission by a public body 
or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law]." 940 CMR 29.02. An 
intentional violation may be found where the public body has previously been advised that 
certain conduct violates the Open Meeting Law. Id. This Office issued a determination on 
March 14, 2018, to the Swansea Recreation Commission that clearly advised that a failure to 
respond to a request for minutes within the statutory time frame violated the Open Meeting Law. 
See OML 2017-153. However, although that determination advised of the 10-day statutory time 
frame, it did not specifically address the question whether the 10-day time frame begins on the 
date a request is sent by e-mail during business hours, or on the date the e-mail recipient actually 
saw the request. Furthermore, the complaints asserted here are made against four different 
public bodies which have not been previously advised of the law's requirements with respect to 
responding to a request for minutes. Because the Board, Planning Board, Committee, and 
Trustees had not been notified of their obligations prior to the events addressed in this letter, we 
find that this violation was not intentional. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board, Planning Board, Committee, and 
Trustees violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to respond to a request for meeting minutes 
within 10 days. We order immediate and future compliance with the law, and we caution that 
similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board, Planning Board, Committee, or Trustees. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 
963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 
===PAGE 4===
cc: Patrick Higgins 
Swansea Board of Selectmen 
Swansea Planning Board 
Swansea Library Director Search Committee 
Swansea Library Board of Trustees 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 