===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
May 16, 2019 
OML 2019-49
Leah Basbanes, Chair 
Dunstable Board of Selectmen 
Dunstable Town Hall 
511 Main Street 
Dunstable, MA 01827
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Ms. Basbanes:
This office received a complaint from David Tarr on April 29, alleging that the Dunstable 
Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 28, and you responded, on behalf of the 
Board, by letter dated April 5. The complaint alleges that the Board discussed a topic that was 
not listed on the meeting notice during its March 19 meeting and failed to provide notice to the 
Fire Chief that he would be discussed during that meeting.2
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed 
with our office requesting further review, and the notice and open session minutes of the Board’s 
March 19 meeting. We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and that every 
notice include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies 
must list topics for discussion with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2019.
2 The Division of Open Government is charged specifically with reviewing complaints to determine compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. We decline to review, and offer no opinion on, any conflict of 
interest issues raised in the complaint, as those matters fall outside the scope of our jurisdiction.

===PAGE 2===
include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35; OML 
2012-71; OML 2011-44.3
During the March 19 meeting, Board member Ronald Mikol discussed an anonymous 
email he received about the Fire Department (the “Department”). Specifically, the email 
referenced the Department’s lack of morale and the Fire Chiefs management style. The March 
19 meeting notice included nine topics but did not include any reference to the Fire Chief or Fire 
Department. Nonetheless, the Board discussed the anonymous complaint and received comment 
from the public, including from members of the Department and the Fire Chief who were in 
attendance.
The complaint alleges that the Board should not have discussed the Fire Department 
during the March 19 meeting where that topic was not listed on the notice. We agree that the 
topic was not listed on the notice. However, we do not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law 
because a public body may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not 
anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting. See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87. 
Here, Chair Leah Basbanes stated that she was not aware that Mr. Mikol would raise the topic 
during the meeting and therefore could not have reasonably anticipated its discussion 48 hours 
prior to the meeting. Moreover, the complainant concedes in his request for further review “that 
the chair had no prior knowledge that this issue was to be discussed.”
Although a public body may consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the notice 
if it was not reasonably anticipated by the chair at least 48 hours before the meeting, we 
encourage public bodies to postpone discussion of topics that were not listed in the meeting 
notice until the topic may be included in a meeting notice, unless the circumstances demand 
immediate action by the public body. See OML 2013-197; OML 2011-23.
The complaint further alleges that the Board failed to provide the Fire Chief with notice 
that he would be discussed during the March 19 meeting. Except when meeting in executive 
session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1), the Open Meeting Law does not require public 
bodies to provide additional notice of meetings to specific individuals or groups of individuals 
for topics discussed during a meeting. See OML 2013-41; OML 2011-41. Here, the Board 
discussed the Fire Chief in open session. Because the Board was not required to notify the Fire 
Chief that it would be discussing him, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to provide him with individual notice.
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
Sincerely,
\S
KerryA^ne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: David Tarr
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
3
