===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
March 13, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 33 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Christopher J. Kenny, Esq. 
Clifford & Kenny, LLP 
31 Schoosett Street 
Suite 405 
Pembroke, MA 02359  
chris@cliffordkennylaw.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Kenny: 
 
This office received a complaint from Andrea Davis on July 21, 2025,
1 alleging that the 
Rockland Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about June 20, and you responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated July 11. The complaint alleges that the Board 1) discussed 
matters during its June 17 meeting that were not included in the notice for the meeting; and 2) 
failed to timely approve open session meeting minutes. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
when it discussed unanticipated topics during its June 17 meeting. We find that the Board did 
violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely approve the minutes of its February 27 
meeting. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, and the request for further review. We also reviewed the meeting notice for 
and minutes of the June 17 meeting, as well as a video recording of the meeting.
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the June 17 meeting was accessed at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLLnUi0ii5c  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
June 17 at 6:00 p.m. The notice included the following topics: 
1. SIGNATURES: 
 
• Trash Abatement - June 2025 Approve / Deny 
• Meeting minutes - February 27, 2025, April 22, 2025 & May 13, 2025 
Approve / Deny 
 
2. NEW BUSINESS: 
 
• Tobacco Violations 
o MJDJ Enterprise LLC 399 Webster St. 
 
3. OLD BUSINESS: 
 
Adjournment 
 
The Board held its meeting on June 17 as scheduled. At the beginning of the meeting, the 
husband of Board member Michelle Kennedy entered the meeting room and there was an 
exchange between Ms. Kennedy’s husband and Board Chair Robert Stephens. Ms. Kennedy 
explained that her husband was upset about something Mr. Stephens had said on a podcast.  
 
The Board then turned to a discussion of meeting minutes. Mr. Stephens asserted that the 
Board would be unable to approve any of the minutes listed on the notice except for the minutes 
of its April 22 meeting. Although there was an exchange between Mr. Stephens and Health 
Agent Delshaune Flipp regarding approval of the April 22 minutes, there was no discussion of 
why the other sets of minutes could not be approved. The Board did not substantively discuss 
any of the minutes and Mr. Stephens decided to table the approval of all of the minutes listed on 
the notice. 
 
The Board then turned to discussion of the tobacco violation listed on the meeting notice. 
After discussion of the tobacco violation concluded, Mr. Stephens turned to the topic “old 
business” and asked if anyone had anything to discuss. In response to this question, Ms. Flipp 
announced that she did not have anything to discuss, but then quickly thought of a few things to 
announce, such as the availability of vouchers and new registration for access to the recycling 
center. 
 
At one point, Ms. Flipp requested that the Board vote not to hold a meeting in July. From 
here a wide-ranging discussion unfolded concerning whether the Board could vote on something 
that had not been included in the meeting notice, whether the Board had to follow the Town 
Charter, comments Mr. Stephens had made at a Select Board meeting and on a podcast, and 
other issues.  
 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board’s discussions at the end of its June 17 meeting were unanticipated and 
therefore the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to include the 
topics discussed in the meeting notice.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to post notice at least 48 hours in advance 
of any meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The 
Open Meeting Law further requires that meeting notices include, among other things, a list of the 
topics that the chair, and any other individual responsible for creating the notice, reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2020-152.
3 The list 
of topics for discussion must include “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). Generic placeholder topics are 
insufficient to comply with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2021-121. A 
public body may discuss, and even vote on, a truly unanticipated topic that has arisen within 48 
hours of a meeting. See OML 2020-172. However, the Attorney General strongly recommends 
that public bodies postpone discussion and action on unanticipated topics that are controversial 
or may be of particular interest to the public if the topic can wait until a subsequent meeting. See 
OML 2019- 131.  
 
We understand the complaint to allege that the notice topic “Old Business” was 
insufficient to inform the public of the nature of the discussions that occurred at the end of the 
Board’s June 17 meeting. Additionally, in the request for further review, the complainant asserts 
that Mr. Stephens should have anticipated that Ms. Flipp would provide community reminders, 
as she did when Mr. Stephens asked if anyone had an item to discuss under “Old Business.” In 
response to the complaint, the Board asserts that the topics discussed during this portion of the 
meeting were unanticipated.  
 
After reviewing a recording of the June 17 meeting, we credit the Board’s account that 
the topics discussed at the end of the meeting were unanticipated where it appears that neither 
Mr. Stephens nor Ms. Flipp anticipated discussing any topics under the heading “Old Business.” 
To the extent the complaint alleges that simply including “Old Business” on the meeting notice 
is, in and of itself, a violation, we clarify that when reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, 
unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting notice standing alone. See 
OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155. Rather, we review what was actually discussed at the meeting 
to determine if the notice was sufficiently specific to make the public aware of the discussion 
topics. See OML 2021-22; OML 2020-137; OML 2019-64.  
 
Although we do not find a violation here, we take this opportunity to remind the Board 
that generic topics such as “old business,” without additional detail, would be insufficient to 
provide notice of an anticipated topic. See 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2021-121; OML 2021-
126. Additionally, if it is anticipated that the Health Agent will give a report or update, that topic 
should be included in the meeting notice, and if the specific topics to be addressed in the report 
are anticipated, then those specific topics should be listed in the notice as well. See OML 2022-
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
208. Finally, if the Health Agent shares responsibility for creating the Board’s meeting notices, 
then the notice must include all topics that both the Chair and the Health Agent reasonably 
anticipate will be discussed at the meeting. See OML 2020-152. 
 
II. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely approve minutes of its 
February 25 meeting.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Open session meeting minutes must be 
approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); 940 CMR 29.11(2). The Open Meeting Law 
itself does not define “timely manner”; however, the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law 
regulations provide that “timely manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or 
within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further 
delay.” 940 CMR 29.11(2). Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a meeting be 
approved at the next meeting. Id.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to timely approve the minutes of its  
February 27 meeting. The Board does not dispute that it failed to approve the minutes of its 
February 27 meeting within the time allowed for in the Open Meeting Law regulations. Instead, 
the Board asserts that Mr. Stephens “believed he had good cause for the delay due to further 
revisions to the February 27 meeting minutes prior to approval.” The Board provided no further 
information regarding the revisions it asserts provided good cause for its delay in approving the 
February 27 meeting minutes, nor was there any discussion during the June 17 meeting of the 
revisions or any other reason for declining to approve the minutes that day. Furthermore, we note 
that at the meeting prior the Board also tabled approval of “[m]eeting minutes for February & 
April.”  
 
We find that the Board failed to timely approve the minutes of its February 27 meeting 
and has failed to show that it had good cause for the delay. Cf. OML 2015-190 (no violation 
where the public body had repeatedly made good faith efforts to approve minutes through 
multiple rounds of edits in an effort to reach a consensus among its members). As such, we find 
that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by discussing unanticipated topics during its June 17 meeting. We find that the Board did 
violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely approve the minutes of its February 27 
meeting. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Law’s requirements 
and note that future similar violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the law. 
Additionally, if it has not yet done so, we order the Board to approve the minutes of its February 
27, 2025, meeting within 30 days of the date of this letter.  
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Robert Stephens, Chair, Rockland Board of Health  
(via email: rstephens@rockland-ma.gov)  
 Helen Thayer, Clerk, Town of Rockland ( via email: clerkdept@rockland-ma.gov) 
Andrea Davis (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
