===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 19, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 231 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Gerald A. McDonough 
Law Offices of Thomas F. Gibson 
2400 Massachusetts Avenue 
Cambridge, MA 02140 
gerry@mcdonoughlaw.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Attorney McDonough: 
 
This letter addresses two complaints submitted by Attorney Joseph M. Orlando on behalf 
of his client MaryBeth Smith alleging that the Gloucester Retirement Board (the “Board”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The first complaint, which was not 
submitted on an Open Meeting Law complaint form, was dated October 9, 2019.  The Board 
noted the procedural deficiency with the complaint, but explained that it nonetheless would 
respond to the allegations; the Board responded by letter dated October 30.
1  The first complaint 
alleges that the Board improperly met in executive session at some point after the Board’s 
August 28 meeting and/or on September 25, or otherwise held a meeting without posting notice.  
The second complaint was filed with the Board on or around November 5, and the Board 
responded by letter dated November 26.  The second complaint was filed with the Board on 
November 5, and the Board responded on November 29.  The second complaint contains the 
same allegations as the first complaint, with additional factual assertions in support of the 
allegations.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the two complaints filed with the Board, 
the Board’s responses, additional correspondence with counsel for the Board and for Ms. Smith, 
and the notices for and minutes of Board meetings held between November 28, 2018, and 
September 25, 2019, with particular emphasis on the minutes of meetings held on August 28 and 
 
1 Except where indicated, all dates refer to the year 2019. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
September 25.  We also reviewed email correspondence provided by the complainant, which was 
received in response to a public records request to the Board.  
 
BACKGROUND 
 
We provide the following background information for context regarding the meetings at 
issue in these complaints, and not as independent findings of fact, based on a review of the 
complaints and responses submitted to our office as well as other publicly available records.  The 
Open Meeting Law complaints at issue in this letter arise from an application to the Board for 
death benefits pursuant to G.L. c. 32, § 100, brought by MaryBeth Smith, the surviving spouse of 
Gloucester firefighter Michael Smith.  Michael Smith died in 2012 of metastatic lung cancer; in 
1998 he had spent 12 ½ hours fighting a large chemical fire at Gloucester’s Fisherman’s Wharf.  
At issue in the application is whether Mr. Smith was “killed in performance of duties” as defined 
in G.L. c. 32, § 100 (“section 100”), which designation provides for a substantially higher 
pension benefit than an accidental death benefit pursuant to G.L. c. 32, § 9.   
 
In 2013, the Board requested that the Public Employee Retirement Administration 
Commission (“PERAC”) determine whether Ms. Smith was eligible to receive section 100 
benefits, based on Mr. Smith’s death from cancer, and the Board also asked whether PERAC 
would convene a medical panel to determine whether Mr. Smith sustained injuries during the 
1998 Fisherman’s Wharf fire that resulted in his cancer death in 2012.  PERAC answered both 
questions in the negative.  Thereafter, based on PERAC’s denial, the Board denied the 
application for section 100 benefits. 
 
Ms. Smith appealed the Board’s denial on April 29, 2013.  On October 24, 2018, in a 68-
page decision, an administrative magistrate with the Division of Administrative Law Appeals 
reversed PERAC’s decision declining to convene a medical panel to review Ms. Smith’s 
application for section 100 benefits.  The magistrate also reversed the Board’s decision, which 
was based on PERAC’s denial.  The magistrate remanded Ms. Smith’s application to the Board 
to convene a medical panel to review Ms. Smith’s application and medical and other records and 
to issue a certificate stating whether Mr. Smith’s exposure to smoke and toxic fumes while 
fighting the Fisherman’s Wharf fire in August 1998 caused him to sustain injuries that resulted in 
a condition of cancer that caused his death in 2012, and to issue a decision on Ms. Smith’s 
application for section 100 benefits. 
 
On November 28, 2018, the Board voted to request a medical panel.  Thereafter, a three-
member medical panel of oncology specialists was convened.  Throughout the spring and 
summer of 2019, the Board provided updates that medical records had been submitted and were 
being reviewed by the medical panel.  Ultimately, the medical panel did not conclude that the 
1998 fire was a direct cause of Mr. Smith’s death.   
 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to take place on August 28, 2019, at 4:00 P.M.  
The notice included the heading “Old Business” and beneath that the topic “Michael Smith 
medical panel reports.”  The Board convened the meeting as scheduled.  Ms. Smith was present 
at the meeting, along with her attorney Joseph Orlando.  After beginning the meeting in open 
session, the Board voted to convene in executive session to discuss Ms. Smith’s application as 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
well as one other matter.  The Board invited Ms. Smith and Attorney Orlando to join the 
executive session while it discussed Ms. Smith’s application.  The Board’s counsel explained the 
law and issues under consideration, and Attorney Orlando made a presentation to the Board on 
behalf of Ms. Smith.  The Board requested that Ms. Smith and Attorney Orlando leave the 
executive session while the Board discussed the application with its attorney.  The Board then 
voted to table a decision on the application until its September 25 meeting; the vote was 
announced in open session.   
 
Between the August 28 and September 25 meetings, the Board’s attorney drafted findings 
of fact and conclusions of law which supported a denial of the application for section 100 
benefits.  The draft findings of fact and conclusions of law were provided to the Board members 
for review; Board members also had access to medical and personnel files.  The Board’s 
executive director reminded the Board members of the importance of reviewing the findings of 
fact and conclusions of law from legal counsel as well as medical records and other documents 
and directed that any edits or corrections be submitted so that legal counsel could make any 
revisions for consideration at the Board’s September 25 meeting. 
 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to take place on September 25 at 4:00 P.M.  The 
notice included the heading “Old Business” and beneath that the topic “Smith, (Marybeth) v. 
Gloucester Retirement Board and PERAC CR-13-249.”  The Board convened the meeting as 
scheduled.  Ms. Smith was present at the meeting, along with her attorneys Joseph Orlando Sr. 
and Joseph Orlando Jr.  The Board did not enter executive session on September 25.  In open 
session, the Board’s attorney explained that at the August 28 meeting, the Board had convened in 
executive session to review the medical panel reports and a submission from Attorney Orlando 
and then directed the Board’s attorney to prepare findings of fact. 
 
The Board’s attorney invited Attorney Orlando to speak during the September 25 
meeting.  Attorney Orlando Jr. made a presentation regarding the medical evidence; the 
legislative rationale for section 100 benefits; the impact of a denial of a claim and the expectation 
that it would lead to years of litigation and ultimately judicial precedent adverse to the Board; 
and the social obligation to take care of the family of a firefighter who risked his life to protect 
the public.  The Board’s attorney then explained that all agreed that the inhalation of toxic fumes 
contributes to cancer, but the standard for approving Ms. Smith’s application for section 100 
benefits was whether the 1998 exposure was the “direct and proximate cause” of Mr. Smith’s 
cancer.  He explained the distinction between the cancer presumption for accidental death 
benefits and the “direct and proximate cause” standard for section 100 benefits.  Ultimately, the 
Board’s counsel explained, the medical panel did not support a conclusion that the 1998 
exposure was the direct and proximate cause of Mr. Smith’s cancer that caused his death in 2012.  
The Board then voted 4-0, without discussion, to adopt the findings of fact and conclusions of 
law drafted by counsel, to deny Ms. Smith’s application, and to notify Ms. Smith of her appeal 
rights.   
 
On October 4, 2019, Ms. Smith appealed the Board’s second denial to the Division of 
Administrative Law Appeals.  On October 9, Attorney Orlando submitted the first Open Meeting 
Law complaint to the Board.  The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law when it discussed and deliberated on the findings of fact and conclusions of law in 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
anticipation of the September 25 meeting and when it did not deliberate on the findings of fact 
and conclusions of law during the September 25 meeting, ostensibly because it had already done 
so prior to the meeting.  The Board objected to the complaint on the grounds that it was not filed 
on an Open Meeting Law complaint form, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.05(1).   
 
On November 5, Attorney Orlando filed the second Open Meeting Law complaint with 
the Board.  The second complaint alleges the same violations of the Open Meeting Law as the 
first complaint but includes additional factual support for the allegations based on email 
correspondence that Attorney Orlando received from the Board in response to a public records 
request.   
 
On April 22, 2022, the Division of Administrative Law Appeals issued a decision 
upholding the Board’s 2019 denial of section 100 benefits.  The decision concluded that “a 
preponderance of the evidence does not establish the requisite form of ‘proximate’ causation 
between firefighter Smith’s death and a single fire at a particular time.”  Ms. Smith appealed the 
decision to the Contributory Retirement Appeals Board.  The parties submitted exhibits and 
memoranda and on November 29, 2022, the appeal was placed on a pending list ready for 
adjudication.  A further right of appeal to Superior Court, and then to the appellate courts, 
remains available to the parties.  
     
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when its counsel drafted and 
circulated findings of fact and conclusions of law for Board members to review in 
advance of the September 25 meeting nor when Board members individually 
prepared for the vote at the September 25 meeting.  
 
Both complaints allege that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it discussed 
and deliberated on the findings of fact and conclusions of law prior to and in anticipation of the 
September 25 meeting and when it did not deliberate on the findings of fact and conclusions of 
law during the September 25 meeting, ostensibly because it had already done so prior to the 
meeting.  Although the complaints frame the Board’s actions as holding an unposted or 
otherwise improper closed executive session, or holding an unposted meeting when there was no 
emergency, we understand the allegations to be that Board members deliberated outside of a 
posted meeting in violation of G.L. c. 30A, § 20 (a) and (b). 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be noticed and that 
meetings be open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-
(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c 30A, § 18.  The Law defines “deliberation” 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction . . . .”  Id.  For 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is “a simple majority of the members of the public 
body.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2022-3.  The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies 
and individuals acting as public body members.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  An individual 
employee such as the Board’s executive director or its legal counsel is not a member of a public 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
body and is not subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML Declination 12-18-15 (Lawrence 
City Clerk); OML Declination 11-2-15 (Massachusetts Division of Marine Fisheries); OML 
Declination 5-16-19 (Bourne Town Clerk).   
 
Here, at its August 28 meeting, the Board directed its legal counsel to draft findings of 
fact and conclusions of law for consideration at the September 25 meeting.  Counsel did so and 
circulated the draft findings of fact and conclusions of law to the Board members.  The Board’s 
executive director followed up with the Board prior to the September 25 meeting to remind the 
Board members to carefully review the draft as well as the complete medical file.  The executive 
director also directed Board members to send her any edits or corrections so that counsel could 
revise the findings of fact and conclusions of law for review at the September 25 meeting.  The 
executive director engaged in one-on-one email communication with at least one Board member 
to answer questions about the applicable standards governing the section 100 application.  
Because the executive director and legal counsel are not members of the Board, and we find no 
indication that they facilitated serial communication among a quorum of Board members, their 
communications with Board members did not constitute deliberation in violation of the Open 
Meeting Law.  Other than communications that legal counsel or the executive director 
permissibly sent to the Board, we find no evidence of communications “between or among” a 
quorum of Board members outside of a posted meeting.  For example, Board members 
responding to correspondence from the executive director were careful not to “reply-all,” and a 
Board member who had questions or wanted to flag information for the executive director 
corresponded only with the executive director or with less than a quorum of Board members.  
Nothing in the Open Meeting Law prohibits public body members individually or among less 
than a quorum from reviewing matters outside of a noticed meeting that may be addressed at a 
future meeting, which conduct is the focus of the complaints’ allegations.
2   
 
Finally, we reject the assertion that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to substantively discuss the findings of fact and conclusions of law during its September 25 
meeting prior to voting to deny Ms. Smith’s application for section 100 benefits, ostensibly 
because the Board had already discussed the matter prior to the meeting.  The Open Meeting 
Law does not require a public body to discuss any matter, nor to discuss a matter in any 
particular depth.  See OML 2020-75 (explaining that a public body was not required to engage in 
an in-depth discussion of the advice counsel had provided in a letter previously sent to public 
body members); OML 2018-134 (explaining that a public body was not required to discuss the 
merit of a particular complaint in detail before voting to approve a response drafted in advance 
by counsel); OML 2017-53.  Furthermore, we have repeatedly stated that unanimous agreement 
without substantive discussion during a meeting is insufficient to support an inference that public 
body members deliberated outside of a noticed meeting.  See OML 2019-144; 2017-168; OML 
 
2 The second complaint identifies several instances where email communication s show that Board members 
individually reviewed documentation related to the benefits application, individually engaged in correspondence 
with the Board’s executive director, or—on one occasion—engaged in email correspondence with one other Board 
member.  For example, the second complaint asserts that Board member Donna Leete sent an email to the Boar d’s 
chair as well as staff members that “contained a confession by Donna that she reviewed Michael Smith’s personal 
file to see if any more facts were available concerning the August 16, 1998, Fisherman’s Wharf fire.”  None of these 
examples constitute deliberation among a quorum of Board members, and nothing in the Open Meeting Law 
prohibits Board members individually or among less than a quorum from reviewing files and information in 
preparation for a vote at an upcoming meeting. 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
2017-93; OML 2013-128.  That is especially true when—as here—the motions or documents for 
approval and supporting documentation were distributed in advance of the meeting, “giving each 
member time to familiarize themselves with the contents.”  OML 2017-93.  Here, we find that 
counsel permissibly drafted and distributed the findings of fact and conclusions of law to Board 
members prior to the September 25 meeting; Board members individually reviewed the draft as 
well as supporting materials and submitted follow-up questions directly to counsel or the Board’s 
executive director; and came to the September 25 meeting prepared to vote on the application.   
 
II. Although not raised in the complaints, we note concern with the propriety of the 
Board’s August 28 executive session discussions with counsel. 
 
Although neither complaint directly challenges the propriety of the Board’s August 28 
executive session, nor would such a claim likely have been timely raised if included in either 
complaint,
3 we note our concern with the Board’s August 28 executive session discussions with 
counsel, and take this opportunity to discuss the propriety of that executive session.   
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when meeting in executive session, all meetings of a 
public body shall be open to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A public body may enter executive 
session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, provided that the chair of the 
public body first announces in open session the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects 
that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.  
See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a), 21(b)(3).  One permissible reason to convene in executive session is “[t]o 
discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional 
competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges 
brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21 (a)(1) 
(“Purpose 1”).  Under this purpose, the individual to be discussed has certain rights, including the 
right to individual notice, to be present at the executive session, to speak on his or her behalf, to have 
counsel or another representative present, and to record the executive session.   
 
Another permissible reason to convene in executive session is Purpose 7, “[t]o comply with, 
or act under the authority of, any general or special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(7).  A public body entering executive session under Purpose 7 must state the specific 
law that requires the public body to keep its deliberations confidential.  See District Attorney for the 
N. Dist. v. School Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 569 (2009) (explaining that proper use of 
Purpose 7 to enter executive session requires enumeration of enabling law); OML 2015-170; 2014-
42. 
 
 
3 Complaints alleging a violation of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the 
alleged violation of M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25, or if the alleged violation could not reasonably have been 
known at the time it occurred, then within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered.  G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4).  Violations that occur in open session, such as an inadequate announcement as to 
the purpose for an executive session, are discoverable when they occur.  See  OML 2020-16; OML Declination 7-15-
13 (Board of Directors of the Cape & Vineyard Electric Cooperative, Inc.).  Furthermore,  here the complainant 
attended the executive session until he and his client were asked to leave so that the Board  could engage in further 
discussions with its attorney. 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
According to the open session minutes of the Board’s August 28 meeting, the Board’s 
Chair announced the purpose for the Board’s executive session as “To comply with, or act under 
the authority of, any general . . .law . . ., that law being Exemption (c) of the Public Records Law 
(G.L. c. 4, a. 7 (26)(c) exempting personnel and medical files or information and other materials or 
data relating to a specifically named individual, the disclosure of which may constitute an 
unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.”  A permissive exemption to disclosure of a record under 
the Public Records Law—as is the case for most of the Public Records Law’s enumerated 
exemptions—does not mandate the type of confidentiality required to authorize discussion in 
executive session under Purpose 7.  See OML 2012-104.  For purposes of executive session Purpose 
7, a permissive exemption under the Public Records Law stands in contrast to protection of a 
document that state law requires be kept confidential.   
 
An executive session to consider an individual’s medical information may, however, be 
appropriate pursuant to Purpose 1.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1); see also OML 2011-53.  Unlike 
other executive session purposes, when convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 1, the 
subject of the discussion has the right to be present for the duration of the executive session along 
with legal counsel or another representative.  When the Board convened in executive session to 
discuss the circumstances of Ms. Smith’s application, which included an extended discussion of Mr. 
Smith’s medical history, the Board initially invited Ms. Smith and Attorney Orlando to join the 
executive session and allowed Attorney Orlando to make a presentation to the Board.  We are 
concerned, however, that the Board then asked Ms. Smith and Attorney Orlando to leave the 
executive session so that it could engage in a discussion with its counsel, which the Board explained 
at the meeting and asserted in its response to the complaint “is protected under the Attorney-Client 
Privilege.”  The Board is incorrect.   
 
The Supreme Judicial Court has unequivocally held that the Open Meeting Law constitutes a 
“statutory public waiver of any possible privilege of the public client in meetings of governmental 
bodies except in the narrow circumstances stated in the [Open Meeting Law].”  District Attorney for 
the Plymouth Dist. v. Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 634 (1985).  Accord Revere 
Retirement Bd. v. Attorney General, 93 Mass. App. Ct. 1117 (2018) (Rule 1:28 Decision) (Further 
Appellate Review denied Sep. 13, 2018).  The protection of the attorney-client privilege is not a valid 
basis for holding a discussion in executive session that does not otherwise fall within one of the ten 
enumerated statutory purposes for executive session.  See OML 2020-120; OML 2020-50.  Nor does 
a retirement board’s discussion of the merits of an application for benefits constitute a discussion of 
pending or future threatened litigation or strategy, in accordance with G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3).  See 
Revere Retirement Bd., 93 Mass. App. Ct. 1117; see also OML 2021-56 (explaining that 
receiving legal advice from counsel does not necessarily constitute discussion of litigation 
strategy).   
 
Because the propriety of the Board’s August 28 executive session was not adequately and 
timely raised in a complaint filed with the Board, we do not formally determine whether the 
August 28 executive session was held in accordance with the Open Meeting Law.  However, we 
note that minutes of an executive session that was held in violation of G.L. c. 30A, § 21, may not 
be withheld from the public.  See G.L c. 30A, § 22(f) (“The minutes of any executive session ... 
may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety ... as long as publication may 
defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer; provided, however, that the 
executive session was held in compliance with section 21”) (emphasis added)); OML 2014-42; 
OML 2014-17.    
===PAGE 8===
8 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged.  We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
     Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Joseph M. Orlando, Esq. (via e-mail: jmorlanojr@orlandoassociates.com) 
Gloucester Retirement Board (via e-mail to Patricia Ivas, Executive Director: 
pivas@gcrsys.com) 
Gloucester Town Clerk (via e-mail: jsenos@gloucester-ma.gov) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
