===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
September 17, 2012 
OML 2012 - 93 
Jonathan Witten, Esq. 
Stow Town Counsel 
156 Duck Hill Road 
Duxbury, MA 02332 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Witten: 
This office reviewed a complaint from Dr. Janet Stiles, dated November 14, 2011, 
alleging that the Stow Elementary School Building Committee (the "Committee") violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that "there was a 
series of communications between a quorum of members of this committee facilitated by the Co- 
chairs Ellen Sturgis and Amy Hastings in which members collected information, discussed 
information and shared their views [on the Stow Larsen Apple Barn]." The complaint further 
alleges that the Committee members "offered comment, considered, analyzed, debated and 
developed strategy to defeat the Citizen's Petition article and ballot question," that Dr. Stiles had 
helped to propose. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on August 23, 2011. 
The Committee responded to the complaint in a letter dated September 6, 2011. 
Following our review, we find that two emails sent by Committee Co-Chair Ellen Sturgis 
constituted unlawful deliberation, and that Ms. Sturgis' actions constituted an individual 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. However, we do not find a violation by the Committee as a 
whole because there is no evidence that any Committee member responded to a quorum of the 
Committee. Additionally, we do not find that Ms. Sturgis intentionally violated the law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the August 23, 2011 complaint filed with the 
Committee; the Committee's September 6, 2011 response; and the November 14, 2011 
complaint filed with our office. We also reviewed the Committee's web page, located at 
www.stow-ma.gov .  Finally, we reviewed approximately 30 emails, provided to our office by the 
complainant, which were sent by Committee members between February 2011 and June 2011. 
1 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
The complainant is part of a group of Stow residents that have worked to save a local 
historical building, the Stow Larsen Apple Barn, also known as the Stone Building. This group 
pursued a citizens' petition process to place a question on the May 2, 2011 Stow Town Meeting 
Warrant and a question on the ballot for the town election held on May 10, 2011. 
In contrast, the Committee's role at the time included overseeing the demolition of the 
Stone Building as part of the construction of the new Stow Elementary School. The Committee 
consists of 12 members. Between February 2011 and May 2011, members of the Committee, 
particularly the two co-chairs, engaged in email discussions regarding school building projects 
and, specifically, the Town Meeting and ballot questions proposed by Dr. Stiles. Many of the 
emails discussed strategy for opposing Dr. Stiles' efforts, and the recipients often included 
individuals who were not members of the Committee. All but two of the 30 email 
communications we reviewed involved discussion by less than a quorum of the Committee, 
however.' 
On April 30, 2011, Ms. Sturgis sent an email to 10 of the 11 other Committee members 
with the subject "Town Meeting." In the body of the email, Ms. Sturgis wrote, "I don't know if 
everyone heard but the Moderator has decided to move Article 41 (stone building) up towards 
the front of the meeting, after the budget vote. Attached is my presentation as it stands currently 
(I have 5 minutes so photos will go by quickly!) which will come after the Fincomm (Gary) 
makes their presentation. Not too late for comments, particularly if there is anything you think 
we should mention." At least two Committee members replied directly to Ms. Sturgis, but did 
not copy any other Committee members. 
On May 7, 2011, Ms. Sturgis sent another email to the entire membership of the 
Committee, this one with the subject "Fwd: Public Record Request." Ms. Sturgis forwarded a 
public records request, and wrote that IN* received this request yesterday and I just sent the 
email to Bill Wrigley et al. Don't know at this point if Paul as our PM can take care of all of this, 
or if Town Bldg will be able to assist. Have no idea why this law firm has requested it —any 
theories? Seems very focused on the work of the contractor." At least one Committee member 
replied to this email, sending his comments only to Ms. Sturgis. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Accordingly, the law requires that the "all meetings of a 
public body shall be open to the public," subject to limited exceptions for executive sessions. 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20, 21. "Meeting" is defmed as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to 
any matter within the body's jurisdiction." Id. at § 18. In turn, "deliberation" is defined as "an 
oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, 
however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling 
1  Seven members constitute a quorum of the Committee. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
information or distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or 
documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed." Id. It is clear from the definition that communications over email can constitute 
deliberation. Furthermore, expression of an opinion on matters within the body's jurisdiction to 
a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no other public body member responds. See 
OML 2012-67; OML 2012-15; OML 2011-37; OML 2011-35. 2  
Ms. Sturgis' April 30, 2011 email to 10 of the 11 members of the Committee, attaching a 
presentation and requesting comments, constituted an unlawful deliberation outside of a posted 
meeting. The email was sent to a quorum of the Committee, and the subject matter — opposition 
to a Town Meeting article — was clearly public business within the Committee's jurisdiction, as 
the Committee had been charged with overseeing the construction of the school building at issue 
in the petitions. Likewise, Ms. Sturgis' May 7, 2011 email to the 11 other members of the 
Committee, soliciting opinions or information regarding a public records request submitted to the 
Committee, also constituted improper deliberation, as it was sent to a quorum of the Committee 
and regarded public business within its jurisdiction. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
With regard to the remaining 28 emails that we reviewed, none were between or among a 
quorum of the Committee. We therefore find no violation of the Open Meeting Law with respect 
to these messages, nor do we find that a quorum of the Committee engaged in a serial 
deliberation as alleged by the complainant. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that Ms. Sturgis's April 30, 2011 and May 7, 2011 
emails constituted improper deliberation outside of an open meeting and resulted in an individual 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. We do not find that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law, nor do we find that Ms. Sturgis' violation was intentional. 
We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law. Additionally, 
we order the Committee to publicly disclose the two emails discussed in this letter at its next 
meeting. Finally, we encourage all members of the Committee to review the Attorney General's 
Open Meeting Law Guide to avoid future similar violations. 
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this letter, 
please do not hesitate to contact me. 
Sincerely, 
athan Sclarsic 
ssistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Dr. Janet Stiles 
2  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/agolopenrneeting.  
3 
===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 