===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
July 30, 2019 
OML 2019-93
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq.
KP Law, P.C.
101 Arch Street, 12th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Corbo:
This office received a complaint from Stephen Dewhurst on May 30 alleging that the 
Carver Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A,
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about April 17; and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated May 23, following an extension of time 
granted by our office. In his complaint, Mr. Dewhurst alleges that a quorum of the Board 
deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting by discussing a town meeting warrant article.
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. 
We also reviewed the notices and open session minutes of the Board’s April 2 and April 8 
meetings, as well as a video recording of the April 2 and April 8 meetings.2
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body; thus, three 
members constitute a quorum. During an April 2 meeting, the Board discussed Town 
Meeting warrant articles, including an article that would create a bylaw to address nuisance or 
blighted property (Article #20). The Board discussed Article #20 for approximately 20 
minutes, with several members expressing reservations about the article. Finally, the Town
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2019.
2 The video recording of the April 2 meeting is available at https://archive.org/details/a58ma- 
Carver_Board_of_Selectmen_4_2_19; the video recording of the April 8 meeting is available at 
https://archive.org/details/a58ma-Carver_Board_of_Selectmen_4_8_19.

===PAGE 2===
Administrator suggested that the Board create a subcommittee to further review this article. 
Chair Ronald Clarke asked for volunteers and three members of the Board volunteered. Chair 
Clarke then stated that the group can provide the Board with its recommendations during the 
April 16 meeting.
On April 3 at 3:33 P.M., the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on April 8 at 
3:00 P.M. The notice included only one topic: “Discussion on Blight/Nuisance proposed 
Article for Annual Town Meeting Warrant.”
On or about April 4, the three Board members who volunteered during the April 2 
meeting each separately met with the Planning Director and individually discussed with the 
Planning Director their suggestions to revise Article #20. As a result of these conversations, 
the Planning Director re-drafted Article #20.
On April 5, the Planning Director sent an email to the three subcommittee members, 
the Town Administrator, and the Assistant Town Administrator. The email stated, in part, 
“All - thank you for being available to speak yesterday. Below is a synopsis of the language 
that was removed from the proposed Nuisance/Blight By-law and attached is the By-Law in 
its revised edited formatted [sic].” The email included revisions to Article #20 that 
incorporated the Planning Director’s individual discussions with the three subcommittee 
members.3
In preparation for the Board’s April 8 meeting, the Assistant Town Manager created 
draft minutes of that meeting. These draft minutes included a summary of the proposed 
changes to Article #20, as well as an anticipated motion to approve the proposed changes and 
the votes relative to that motion of the three subcommittee members who were expected to 
attend the April 8 meeting.
The April 8 meeting of the Board was held as planned. The three subcommittee 
members, as well as Board Member Sarah Hewins, were in attendance. Copies of the draft 
minutes, as prepared by the Assistant Town Manager, were provided to the Board and the 
public at the beginning of the meeting. The Board discussed Article #20 and approved the 
proposed changes to the bylaw by a 3-1 vote. However, the Board then withdrew Article #20 
from the Town Meeting warrant by a majority vote.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee
3 Although not raised in the complaint, we note our concern with the email that the Planning Director sent to all 
subcommittee members in advance of the April 8 meeting, as the email contained a revised version of Article 
#20, apparently incorporating feedback from the Planning Director’s individual discussions with the 
subcommittee members, and therefore the Planning Director may have inadvertently relayed individual 
subcommittee members’ opinions with a quorum of the subcommittee. We remind the Board that 
communications that reach a quorum of members and include the opinions of those members on a matter within 
the body’s jurisdiction is deliberation, even if no public body member responds. See Boelter v. Board of 
Selectmen of Wavland. 479 Mass. 233, 243 (2018); OML 2016-104; OML 2015-33.
2

===PAGE 3===
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a 
public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. The 
law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.” Id. For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a 
simple majority of the members of a public body. Id.
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board “met privately to discuss and vote 
on” Article #20, the nuisance/blighted property bylaw. During the April 2 meeting, Chair 
Clarke asked for volunteers to further review Article #20; three members volunteered; and the 
chair then asked those members to make recommendations to the Board at a subsequent 
meeting. We find that the Board created a subcommittee during its April 2 meeting where 
volunteers were sought and then chosen to further review Article #20, and subsequently report 
back to the Board with their recommendations. See OML 2018-23; OML 2016-59; G.L. c.
30A, § 18 (a “subcommittee” is defined as a multiple-member body created to advise or make 
recommendations to a public body).4
However, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when the three 
subcommittee members met with the Planning Director to discuss Article #20. Here, the 
subcommittee members separately met with the Planning Director and discussed revisions to 
Article #20. The complaint suggests that because the Assistant Town Manager’s draft 
minutes prepared in advance of the April 8 meeting indicated unanimous approval of the 
proposed changes to Article #20, the subcommittee members must have “met privately” prior 
to the April 8 meeting “to discuss and vote on the article.” The Board responds that the 
subcommittee members did not share with each other their individual discussions with the 
Planning Director, nor did they further speak with each other about Article #20 until the April 
8 meeting. Compare McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass.App.Ct. 637, 648-49 (2008) (the Open 
Meeting Law does not allow a public body to engage in serial deliberation, whereby a quorum 
communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a matter within the 
public body’s jurisdiction). We have stated in prior determinations that unanimous agreement 
among public body members is insufficient to support the inference that those members 
deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. See OML 2017-93; OML 2013-128. Absent 
sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit the public body’s account of the facts. See OML 
2015-8; OML 2014-122. Accordingly, we find that the Board did not deliberate outside of a 
noticed meeting.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
Assisted by: Stephen Delcuze, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government
cc: Stephen Dewhurst
Carver Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
