===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 15, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 165 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Robert W. Galvin, Esq. 
Marshfield Town Counsel  
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Attorney Galvin: 
 
This office received a complaint from Joseph Pecevich on June 2, 2020,1 alleging that the 
Marshfield Zoning Board of Appeals (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.2 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 13, and Town 
Counsel responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated March 19. The complaint alleges that 
the Board deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting when it voted to adjourn its March 10 
meeting and thereafter reconvened and continued to deliberate.3     
 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it voted to adjourn its 
March 10 meeting and thereafter reconvened and continued to deliberate. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request 
for further review, a video recording of the March 10 meeting,4 and minutes for the March 10 
 
1 All dates in this determination are in 2020, unless otherwise stated.  
2 The complaint also specifically names the Board’s chair and Town Counsel (for the sake of clarity, we refer to you 
in the third person). The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and their members; therefore, we decline 
to review any allegations that Town Counsel violated the Law. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
3 The Complainant raises several additional allegations that, even if true, would not constitute violations of the Open 
Meeting Law. We therefore decline to review those additional allegations. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant 
Housing Authority Board of Commissioners).  
4 The video recording of the Board’s March 10 meeting may be found at https://vimeo.com/397283749. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
meeting.5 We also communicated with Counsel for the Board, the Executive Director of 
Marshfield Community Television, and the Complainant. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. The Board posted notice for a March 10 meeting. Included 
on the notice under the heading “Continued Hearings to a Date Certain (3-10-2020)” was the 
topic  
 
C. #20 -15: Town of Marshfield/Department of Public Works: The Petition er is 
seeking a Special Permit in accordance with §305 -11.03 of the Marshfield 
Municipal Code to fill approximately 2.5 acres with approximately 34,000 cubic 
yards of fill to bring the site(s) above Base Flood Elevation based on current FEMA 
flood maps pri or to the construction of the new Public Works and Police 
Department facilities on the properties located at 35 Parsonage Street, 123 
Parsonage Street and 1639 Ocean Street which are further identified on the 
Assessors’ Maps as being on parcels I07 -03-11, I07-03-07 and I08-07-09 and are 
located in R-2 and RB zoning districts.  
 
(the “Special Permit”). 
 
The Board convened its meeting on March 10 as planned. The portion of the Board’s 
meeting that constituted a public hearing for the Special Permit lasted approximately 90 minutes 
and included a lengthy exchange between the Complainant and the Board. At the end of the 90 
minutes, and over the objections of the Complainant, the Board voted to close the public hearing 
on the Special Permit. Within seconds following the vote to close the public hearing, the Chair 
moved to adjourn the meeting. The motion received a second and three of the five Board 
members present voted in favor of the motion.6 As the Board voted to adjourn the meeting, the 
Complainant got up from his seat and left the meeting room. At some point thereafter, the Board 
reconvened the meeting and continued to discuss the Special Permit. Ultimately, the Board voted 
to approve the Special Permit.  
 
The applicant for the Special Permit has since decided to pursue a different location for 
the underlying project, and therefore no longer relies on the Special Permit approved at the 
March 10 meeting.    
 
 
 
5 It is unclear whether the meeting minutes provided to our office have been approved by the Board. Nonetheless, 
we note that the minutes do not accurately reflect the Board’s vote to adjourn the meeting after it had voted to close 
the public hearing for case 20-15, or any discussion that took place with respect to the vote to adjourn. We remind 
the Board of its obligation to create and approve accurate minutes in a timely manner. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22; 940 
CMR 29.11(“timely manner” means within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is 
later). 
6 In its response the Board explained that it accidentally voted unanimously to adjourn the meeting. In subsequent 
communications with our office the Board represented that the motion to adjourn did not receive a majority vote. 
After a close review of the video recording of the meeting, we find that three of the five Board members present 
voted to adjourn the meeting.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be 
physically present, as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the 
public body. See OML 2017-135; OML 2015-38; OML 2014-3.7 
 
The Board states that it mistakenly voted to adjourn the March 10 meeting after having 
voted to close the public hearing, and that it immediately reconvened the meeting. In support of 
its contention that it did not violate the Open Meeting Law when this happened, the Board points 
to a recent determination issued by this office finding no violation where a public body chair 
mistakenly used the word “adjourn” when she should have used the word “recess.” OML 2019-
123. Although we credit the Board’s assertion that the vote to adjourn the meeting was an 
unintentional mistake, we find the circumstances here are distinguishable from those in OML 
2019-123, and find that the Board in this case violated the Open Meeting Law by adjourning the 
March 10 meeting and thereafter reconvening and continuing its deliberations.  
 
In OML 2019-123, when the chair twice mistakenly stated that the meeting was 
“adjourned,” it was clear in context that the intention was to “recess” the meeting—i.e., to take a 
short break and then resume the meeting. Here, the Board did not mistakenly state that it was 
adjourning the meeting when it meant to say it was recessing, nor did the Board indicate that it 
would reconvene. Additionally, the Complainant, the one member of the public most engaged in 
the topic being discussed immediately before the Board voted to adjourn, left the meeting room 
immediately after the Board voted to adjourn the meeting. There is no evidence that the Board 
immediately informed the Complainant or other members of the public that this vote was in error 
and that the Board would reconvene. Although we understand that the vote to adjourn was made 
in error, and that the Board contends that it immediately reconvened the meeting, the fact 
remains that at least one member of the public who clearly had an interest in the topic being 
discussed left the meeting room after the Board voted to adjourn the meeting and the Board 
thereafter resumed deliberations about that particular matter.  
 
In its response, the Board notes that the Complainant missed only eight minutes of 
discussion regarding the Special Permit, including the Board’s vote on the matter, and that this 
portion of the meeting was not open for public participation. The Board also notes that the vote 
was taken after having engaged in discussion with the Complainant for over forty-five minutes. 
Although it is true that the Board had engaged in a lengthy exchange with the Complainant 
before it voted on the Special Permit, and that under the Open Meeting Law the Complainant had 
no right to public participation, these facts in no way negate the requirement of the Open 
Meeting Law that deliberations of public bodies be open and accessible to the public. The public 
has an unconditional right, unless a public body has lawfully convened in executive session, to 
witness the deliberations of a public body. By adjourning its meeting and thereafter reconvening 
 
7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
and continuing to deliberate, the Board denied the Complainant the right to access a portion of 
the March 10 meeting.     
  
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it voted to adjourn its March 10 meeting and thereafter reconvened and continued to 
deliberate regarding Board business. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law and note that future similar violations may be considered evidence 
of an intent to violate the law. Because the project for which the Special Permit was sought is no 
longer being pursued at the location for which the Special Permit was sought, we do not order 
any additional remedial action.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Lynne Fidler, Chair of the Marshfield Zoning Board of Appeals c/o Nanci Porreca, 
Zoning Aide (via e-mail:  
Joseph Pecevich (via e-mail:  
  
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
