===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 31, 2017 
OML 2017-136 
Michele Randazzo, Esq. 
KP Law, PC 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Randazzo: 
This office received a complaint from Daniel and Heather Pellegrini on May 19, 
alleging that the Southampton Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about 
April 3, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated May 31.2 In their 
complaint, Mr. and Ms. Pellegrini allege that, during its March 7 meeting, the Board 
convened in executive session for an improper purpose and failed to follow certain procedural 
requirements for convening an executive session. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notice and open and executive session minutes of the Board's March 7 meeting. 
We find the facts as follows. On February 16, the complainants sent a request to the 
highway superintendent in which they attached pictures of their silt fence damaged by a Town 
snow plow, asking, "what the plan is for the town to get this fixed." The next day, the 
complainants re-sent the email to the highway superintendent, copying the Board, asking 
"what the town is going to do to fix the problem.. .1 estimate about 200-300 feet of fence what 
(sic) torn up so the invoice will be approximately $1,000.00 to $1,500.00 to replace the 
damages." The Board chair responded on February 19, informing them that it "will be placed 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise indicated. 
2 We remind the Board that that the Open Meeting Law requires that, unless an extension is granted by our 
office, the response must be sent within 14 business days of a public body's receipt of a complaint. See G.L. c. 
3OA, § 23(b); 940 OMR 29.05(5). 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
on the 'list' for next week." On February 24, the chair then notified the complainants that the 
request would be discussed in executive session in March. On March 1, the Board posted 
notice of a meeting for March 7. The Board listed the complainants' request on the notice 
under the heading "Executive Sessions" as "MGL c. 30A, Sec 21, #3- To discuss strategy 
with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the Chair so declares." 
On March 2, the complainants sent an email to the Board chair, copying the other members, 
notifying him that they had repaired the silt fence and asked that the topic be removed from 
the agenda. 
Despite the complainants' request to remove the topic from the agenda, the Board 
went forward with the executive session during its March 7 meeting.3 Although the open 
session minutes do not include any mention of an executive session, the executive session 
minutes indicate that the Board voted by roll call to enter into executive session for the same 
purpose as described in the notice. During the executive session, the Board discussed the 
complainants' request, which had prompted discovery that the complainants' silt fence was 
installed on the Town's right of way. At the end of the executive session, the Board voted to 
send a letter to the complainants requiring the complainants to remove the silt fence from 
Town property by April 1, 2017, reserving the Town's right to initiate legal action if the fence 
was not removed by that date. The letter also stated that, with respect to the complainants' 
"claim for damages, it is the Board's position.. .that the Town does not have any liability in 
these circumstances, particularly where the installation of the silt fence was unauthorized." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body may enter executive session for any of 
ten enumerated purposes, provided that it has first convened in an open session, that the chair 
states the purpose for the executive session and announces whether the open session will 
reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session, that a majority of members of the body 
have voted to go into executive session, and that the vote of each member is recorded by roll 
call and entered into the minutes. G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 21(a), (b). One executive session purpose 
allows a public body to enter executive session to "discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or 
litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) 
("Purpose 3"). The mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke executive session 
Purpose 3. See OML 2012-5; OML 2011-30.4 Litigation must be pending or clearly and 
imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. See Perryman y. School Committee 
of Boston. 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-43. When entering into executive 
session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body should identify the litigation matter or bargaining 
3 The Board publicly released the executive session minutes on June 13. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/opemneeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
unit that it intends to discuss, if doing so will not compromise the executive session purpose. 
See OML 2013-91. 
The complaint alleges that the Board convened in executive session for an improper 
purpose as the complainants' had withdrawn their request for compensation five days prior to 
the meeting. The Board responds that its discussion concerned the complainants' "legal claim 
for reimbursement," as well as whether the complainants' silt fence had been improperly 
installed on Town property and whether the Town should initiate legal action against the 
complainants to remove the fence. We agree with the complainants that a discussion about 
their request for reimbursement alone would not have been appropriate for executive session 
because it had been withdrawn five days before the meeting. However, while this request was 
mentioned at the start of the executive session, the Board's discussion focused on the location 
of the silt fence on the Town's right-of-way. This discussion resulted in the Board's March 8 
demand letter to the complainants. We conclude that the Board's consideration of whether to 
initiate legal action against the complainants was demonstrably likely to proceed if the 
complainants did not comply with its demand to remove the silt fence from the Town's right-
of-way by April 1. See OML 2015-14; OML 2013-23; OML 2012-82. Therefore, the Board 
properly held this discussion in executive session under Purpose 3. See G.L. c. 3OA, 
§ 21(a)(3); OML 2013-93; OML 2011-30. 
The complaint also alleges that the Board failed to comply with certain procedural 
requirements for convening an executive session (namely, the roll call vote and the 
announcement of the reason for the executive session). We find that the Board did comply 
with the requisite procedures, as reflected in the executive session minutes, though the open 
session minutes do not include any mention of an executive session or the procedural steps.5 
While the Board did not identify the specific nature of the litigation matter in open session, 
we find that the Board's justification for omitting that information was reasonable under the 
circumstances. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3) ("before the executive session, the chair shall 
state the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called"). The Board was 
concerned that publicly disclosing the matter would "enflame an already contentious 
situation" in which the Board had not yet decided whether to commence an enforcement 
action. Furthermore, the Board was concerned that knowledge about the Board's executive 
session may have triggered the complainants to reverse their decision not to pursue the 
reimbursement request. Those reasons reflect a justifiable concern that disclosing more 
information in open session would have alerted the subject of the potential litigants (the 
complainants) of the discussion, thereby compromising the Board's litigating position.6 See 
5 We remind the Board that the procedures for convening an executive session occur during open session and 
should be reflected as such in the open session minutes. While the minutes may be a combined document, they 
should accurately distinguish between open and executive session so that they may be segregated if a request is 
made and the executive session minutes are withheld from disclosure. See OML 2016-26. We recommend that 
the Board revise its open session minutes accordingly. 
6 We note, however, that had the Board only discussed the complainant's request during this executive session, it 
would have been required to include the specific nature of the litigation matter on the notice because, at the time 
of posting on March 1, the Board chair had already informed the complainants that it would discuss their request 
in executive session. See OML 2015-14. Because the complainants were aware ofthis anticipated executive 
===PAGE 4===
OML 2017-87. Accordingly, we find that Board's open session description of the executive 
session was sufficient and did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
cc; Daniel and Heather Pellegrini 
Southampton Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
session, the Board's litigating position would not have been compromised by including this information on the 
notice. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
4 