===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 30, 2024  
  
OML 2024 – 163 
 
VIA EMAIL  
  
Megan B. Bayer, Esq. 
Cambridge Public Schools 
135 Berkshire Street 
Cambridge, MA 02141 
 
mbayer@cambridgema.gov 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Attorney Bayer:  
 
This office received a complaint from Anna Shin on May 1, 2024, alleging that the 
Graham & Parks School Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint originally was filed with the Council on March 11 and you responded 
on behalf of the Council by letter dated March 21.  The complaint alleges that: (1) minutes were 
missing from the Council’s “School Council Meetings Portal;” (2) minutes of at least three 
meetings were insufficient because they did not include the names of council members present or 
absent; and (3) the School Council webpage contained an outdated list of members.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
approving minutes that did not include the names of members present or absent.  For the reasons 
set forth below, we decline to review the remaining allegations of the complaint.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Council’s response to the complaint, and 
the complainant’s request for further review.  In addition, we reviewed emails from the 
complainant with attachments, including documents relative to a complaint filed with the 
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education.  We also communicated 
with a parent of a Graham & Parks School student who the complainant alleges had requested 
minutes from the Council but had not received them.   
 
  
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 202 4. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 We find the facts as follows.  The Graham and Parks Alternative Public School (“G&P 
School”) is a public elementary school in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  In accordance with G.L. c. 
71, § 59C, G&P School established the Council to assist in the identification of the student 
population’s educational needs, the review of the annual school budget and the formulation of a 
school improvement plan, among other responsibilities.  The Council maintains a website, 
https://grahamandparks.cpsd.us/ (“the Council Website”), which includes a list of Council 
members.2  Minutes of Council meetings can be found at a website maintained by the Cambridge 
Public Schools (“the CPS Website”), 
https://secure1.cpsd.us/school_council/meeting_listing.php?schoolID=25.  As of the date that the 
complaint was filed with the Council, an indeterminate number of Council meeting minutes were 
not posted to the CPS Website.  Additionally, three sets of minutes did not include the names of 
Council members present or absent from the meeting. The complaint does not list which meeting 
minutes contained the latter deficiency.  We need not identify them by date, however, as the 
Council has acknowledged that “some of the minutes” lacked this information. The Council also 
acknowledged that the list of members on the Council Website was outdated at the time that it 
received the complaint. 
DISCUSSION 
 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body 
“create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a).  A public body’s meeting minutes must include, among other things, the names of 
the members present or absent at a meeting.  Id.  See also OML 2023-137; OML 2020-5; OML 
2019-163.3  The complainant alleges, and the Council does not dispute, that some minutes did 
not include a list of members present or absent from the meeting.  We find that in creating and 
approving minutes that failed to set forth the names of the members present or absent, the 
Council violated the Open Meeting Law.4 
 
 We decline to review the allegation that minutes were not posted to the Council Website, 
as this would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law, even if true.  The Open 
Meeting Law does not require public bodies to post meeting minutes to a website. See OML 
2023-179; OML 2015-173; OML 2013-117.  Rather, the Law requires that “[t]he minutes of an 
 
2 See https://grahamandparks.cpsd.us/cms/One.aspx?portalId=3043838&pageId=3659322.  
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the 
alleged violation, or if the alleged violation could not have been known at the time it occurred, then within 30 days 
from when the alleged violation reasonably could have been discovered.   G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 
29.05(4).  A complaint regarding the sufficiency of meeting minutes typically must be filed within 30 days of 
approval of the minutes or the date the minutes were posted or their existence otherwise made known to the public. 
Here, the Council does not dispute that its minutes were insufficient and does not challenge the timeliness of the 
complaint, and therefore we do not address whether the complaint was timely filed. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft form, shall be made available upon 
request by any person within 10 days.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  The complainant does not allege 
that she requested minutes, only that they were not available when she searched for them online.5  
Similarly, the Open Meeting Law does not govern the content of a public body’s website.  
Therefore, we decline to review the complainant’s allegations that minutes were not posted 
online or that the Council Website did not accurately reflect the names of Council members.     
 
Having found that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by approving deficient 
meeting minutes, we must determine whether the violation was, as the complainant urges, 
intentional.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public 
body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 29.02.  
An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of 
the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law.  Id.  We have not previously warned the Council against the violation found here.  
In the complaint, as well as subsequent filings, Anna Shin details alleged misdeeds by Principal 
Kathleen Smith.  However, even if substantiated, none of these allegations concerns the 
Council’s failure to create minutes compliant with the Open Meeting Law.  To the extent that the 
complainant alleges that the violation here is part of a larger and purposeful effort to conceal the 
identities of Council members from the public, the information before us does not support such 
an allegation.  We therefore decline to find that the violation was intentional.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
approving minutes which do not set forth the names of members present or absent.  We order 
immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements and we caution that similar future 
violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  We order no further remedial 
action, noting that the Council promptly revised minutes to include the required information, 
agreed to undergo training on the Open Meeting Law, and developed a template for minutes, as 
requested by the complainant. 
 
  
 
5 In subsequent communications with our office, the complainant alleged that the Council failed to respond to a 
request for meeting minutes sent by another parent of a G&P School student.  Allegations not raised in the 
complaint filed with the public body will not be reviewed.  See OML 2023-150; OML 2022-84.  In any event, we 
learned through our investigation that the parent referenced by the complainant had contacted the Council to request 
that it update its website.  She “may have asked about meeting minutes” but had no record of a request.   
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Anna Shin (via e- mail: )  
 Maureen A. MacFarlane, Esq. (via e-mail: mmacfarlane@cpsd.us) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
