===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
September 20, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 171 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Olivia Hart-Paulson, Esq. 
Assistant City Solicitor 
City of Lowell – Law Department 
375 Merrimack Street, 3
rd Floor 
Lowell, MA 01852-5909 
 
ohartpaulson@lowellma.gov 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Hart-Paulson: 
 
This office received a complaint from Laura Ortiz on July 7, 2024, alleging that the 
Lowell City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Council on April 2, 2024, and you responded on 
behalf of the Council by letter dated May 1.
1  The complaint alleges that members of the Council 
failed to certify receipt of Open Meeting Law materials within two weeks of appointment, as 
required by the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged in the complaint.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Council’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review and the 
exhibits appended thereto.    
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “within 2 weeks of qualification for office, all 
persons serving on a public body shall certify, on a form prescribed by the attorney general, the 
receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, regulations promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a 
copy of the educational materials prepared by the attorney general explaining the open meeting 
law ... The certification shall be evidence that the member of a public body has read and 
understands the requirements of the open meeting law and the consequences of violating it.” 
G.L. c. 30A § 20(h).  The Open Meeting Law regulations further define the educational materials 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
that must be provided, including a copy of each Open Meeting Law determination issued to the 
public body within the last five years in which our office found a violation.  940 CMR 29.04(1).  
Finally, the regulations clarify that public body members “must sign a new certification upon 
reelection or reappointment to the public body.”  940 CMR 29.04(4) and (5).  
 
The Council does not dispute that members failed to certify that they received copies of 
the Open Meeting Law, regulations, and educational material.  As a result, we find that the 
Council violated the Open Meeting Law.  To the extent that the complaint alleges that the Lowell 
City Clerk also violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to provide the materials to the Council 
members and by failing to retain certificates completed by members, we decline to review those 
allegations.  Although the certification forms must be submitted to and retained by the clerk, and 
the Open Meeting Law regulations clarify that the municipal clerk is the person who shall 
perform the administrative task of delivering the educational materials to the public body 
members, ultimately the requirement of compliance with the Open Meeting Law’s certification 
provisions remains with public bodies and public body members.  See OML 2012-79.
2  
Therefore, we decline to review any separate allegation that the Lowell City Clerk also violated 
the Open Meeting Law.  See id.   
 
Next, we must determine whether the violation was, as the complainant urges, 
intentional.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public 
body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 29.02.  
An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of 
the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law.  Id.  The complainant notes that the Council has previously been found in 
violation of the Open Meeting Law.  In support of her allegation of intent, the complainant 
references two Open Meeting Law determinations previously issued by our office.  However, 
neither determination concerned the failure to certify receipt of educational materials.  We have 
not warned the Council previously against the violation found here, to wit, failure to certify 
receipt of educational materials.   Therefore, we decline to find the violation intentional. 
   
The Council has pledged to work diligently to bring itself into compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law.  Nonetheless, we note our concern that it was unaware of such a widespread 
failure to certify receipt of educational materials.  Additionally, the Council’s response to the 
complaint was sent prematurely, before it met to review the complaint.3  We encourage the 
Council to take this opportunity to recommit itself to strict compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law 
when members failed to certify receipt of copies of the Open Meeting Law, regulations 
promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a copy of the educational materials, as required by the 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 “Within 14 business days after receiving the complaint, unless an extension has been granted by the Attorney 
General as provided in 940 CMR 29.05(5)(b), the public body shall meet to review the complaint’s allegations ; take 
remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action 
taken.”  940 CMR 29.05(5) (emphasis added). 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Open Meeting Law.  We order the Council to certify within thirty (30) days of receipt of this 
letter, on the form approved by the Office of the Attorney General, that they have received a 
copy of the Open Meeting Law, the Attorney General’s regulations, and the Attorney General’s 
Open Meeting Law Guide.4  We also order the Council to certify to this Office within thirty (30) 
days of receipt of this letter that they have complied with this order.  Finally, we order immediate 
and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution the Council that a similar future 
violation may be considered evidence of an intentional violation of the law. 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc:  Laura Ortiz (via email: ) 
Lowell City Council, Mayor Daniel P. Rourke (via email: drourke@lowellma.gov) 
Lowell City Clerk (via email: mgeary@lowellma.gov) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
4 We acknowledge receipt of four executed certification forms sent to our office on September 11, 2024.  
