===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
September 19, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 178 
 
VIA EMAIL ONL
 Y 
 
Joseph A. Marshall  
Chair, Fall River Redevelopment Authority 
c/o Fall River City Clerk 
Via e-mail: city_clerks@fallriverma.org 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Marshall: 
 
This office received a complaint from Collin Dias on March 11, 2022,1 alleging that the 
Fall River Redevelopment Authority (the “Authority”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Authority on January 28, and, after 
an extension of time granted by our office, the Authority responded by letter dated February 24. 
The complaint alleges that 1) the chair of the Authority’s January 26 meeting failed to announce 
that a member of the Authority was participating in the meeting remotely; and 2) counsel for the 
Authority, rather than the Chair, made part of the required announcement before entering 
executive session. 
2   
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2) and find that the Authority did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. 
In reaching this determination we reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Authority’s response, the request for further review, and a video recording of the Authority’s 
January 26 meeting.
3 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise noted. 
2 The original complaint contained an additional allegation. In the request for further review, the Complainant 
specifically requested review of only the two allegations noted above; therefore, we do not address the third 
allegation.  
3 A video recording of the Authority’s January 26 meeting can be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NIuj8PKaKNM. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law regulations require that when one or more members of a public 
body participates in a meeting remotely, the chair, at the beginning of the meeting, must 
“announce the name of any member who will be participating remotely,” and this information 
must be recorded in the minutes of the meeting. 940 CMR 29.10(7)(b). The complaint alleges 
that Authority member John Erickson, acting as chair, failed to announce at the beginning of the 
January 26 meeting that Authority member Ann Keane was participating in the meeting 
remotely. The Authority does not dispute that Mr. Erickson did not announce that Ms. Keane 
was participating in the January 26 meeting remotely, but states that the Authority took a roll call 
at the beginning of the meeting and that it was clear when Ms. Keane announced her name and 
presence that she was participating remotely because she appeared, alone, on a television screen. 
We find that this clearly and effectively conveyed to the public the identity of the Authority 
member who was participating remotely. See OML 2020-138 (suggesting that displaying the 
name of public body members on a screen could satisfy the requirement to announce the name of 
members participating remotely); see also OML 2021-44 (finding that the combination of the 
chair’s announcement that the meeting was being held virtually followed by a roll call in which 
each Board member stated his name and that he was present clearly and effectively conveyed to 
the public the identity of all Board members who were participating remotely).
4  
 
Next, before entering executive session, the chair of a public body must announce in open 
sess
ion the purpose for entering executive session, “stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(b)(3). Additionally, before entering executive session under certain executive session 
purposes, the chair must declare that holding the discussion in open session would have a 
detrimental effect. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) & (6). During the January 26 meeting, Mr. 
Erickson, acting as chair, stated that he found that holding the discussions anticipated for 
executive session in open session would have a detrimental effect on the Authority’s negotiating 
position. Thereafter, counsel present at the meeting, when assisting the Authority in taking the 
required procedural steps before entering executive session, stated the four specific purposes for 
entering executive session that day. We have stated that the chair of a public body may delegate 
the responsibility of making the required announcement before entering executive session to 
another person. See OML 2016-108 (finding an implied delegation of authority when the chair 
asked legal counsel whether there was a reason to enter executive session, and legal counsel then 
stated the purposes for the executive session). Therefore, we find that the Authority did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law in this respect. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Authority did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Authority. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: John Coughlin, Esq., Counsel to the Fall River Redevelopment Authority (via e-mail:  
jcoughlin@b-dlaw.com) 
Collin Dias (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
