===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 6, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 169 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Michael D’Ortenzio Jr., Esq. 
KP Law 
mdortenzio@k-plaw.com  
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney D’Ortenzio: 
 
This determination resolves two complaints that this office received from Ellin Asack on 
February 5 and April 10, 2024, alleging that the Old Kings Highway Historic District 
Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The 
first complaint was originally filed with the Commission on December 13, 2023, the second 
complaint was originally filed with the Commission on January 27, 2024, and you responded to 
both complaints on behalf of the Committee by letter dated February 29, 2024, following an 
extension of time granted by this office.  The first complaint alleges that the notice for the 
Commission’s November 28, 2023, meeting was insufficiently specific, that documents 
referenced in the notice contained false and misleading information, and that Commission 
member Michael Sullivan deliberated outside of a posted meeting.
2  The second complaint 
alleges that the Commission failed to create and approve accurate minutes of the November 28 
meeting and that the minutes did not include a list of documents used during the meeting.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include in the meeting minutes a list of documents used during the November 28 
meeting.  We find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the 
Commission’s response, the request for further review, the notice of the Commission’s 
November 28 meeting, the Commission’s December 29 decision, and the appeal file that was 
provided to our office.  
 
1 The Complainant filed a third complaint with our office regarding the Commission which will be resolved by 
separate letter.  
2 All dates refer to the year 2023, except where indicated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the relevant facts to be as follows.  The Old King’s Highway Regional Historic 
District was established in 1973 and spans multiple towns on Cape Cod, one of which is 
Sandwich.  Each town within the district has its own Historic District Committee, which has the 
authority to review for and enforce compliance with the provisions of the Old King’s Highway 
Regional Historic District Commission Bulletin, as last revised in 2022.  The Commission is an 
appellate body, which meets to hear appeals from decisions of the local Historic District 
Committees. 
 
The Complainant owns property at 35 Gully Lane in Sandwich within the Old King’s 
Highway Historic District.  The Complainant’s neighbors at 39 Gully Lane made two complaints 
about items on the property at 35 Gully Lane.  The first complaint was filed with the Sandwich 
Building Department and alleged that a “wall” approximately nine feet high and made of tree 
trunks, dirt, and other vegetation had been constructed at 35 Gully Lane.  On September 19, the 
Sandwich Building Commissioner, Brendan Brides, issued a letter to the Complainant, titled 
“Complaint of Oversized Wall,” explaining his assessment that the “wall” was “more akin to a 
hedge” and explaining that the zoning by-laws did not govern hedges.  Mr. Brides’ letter 
instructed the Complainant to apply to the Sandwich Historic District Committee for approval of 
the hedge and explained that the Complainant could also appeal Mr. Brides’ determination to the 
Sandwich Historic District Committee.  The Complainant chose to appeal Mr. Brides’ 
determination to the Sandwich Historic District Committee. 
 
The Sandwich Historic District Committee held a public meeting on October 23 at which 
it reviewed Mr. Brides’ determination and considered whether the “hedge” would be considered 
a “structure.”
3  Ultimately, the Sandwich Historic District Committee voted two in favor and 
three against the “hedge” being considered a “structure,” and therefore decided to take no further 
action.  The Complainant’s neighbors then appealed the Sandwich Historic District Committee’s 
decision to the Commission, seeking reversal of the decision that the “hedge” was not a 
“structure.”   
 
The Commission posted notice for a meeting and hearing to take place on November 28.  
The notice described the matter to be discussed as: 
 
Appeal No. 2023-8 filed by N. Mack Marr & Tara A. Marr of 39 Gully Lane, East 
Sandwich, Massachusetts seeking reversal of the Sandwich Town Committee's 
decision that a wall which had been constructed on Ellin Asack, Trustee of the 
Constance Crowell Trust’s property located at 35 Gully Lane, East Sandwich, 
Massachusetts was not a hedge or structure and that no further action needed to be 
taken on the matter. The Sandwich Town Committee's decision was filed with the 
Sandwich Town Clerk on Monday October 30, 2023. The Appeal Petition was 
filed with the Regional Commission on Wednesday, November 1, 2023, and a 
 
3 The Sandwich Historic District Committee’s meeting and decision were the subject of other Open Meeting Law 
complaints that the Complainant filed with our office. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
copy is available for public viewing at the Sandwich Town Clerk’s Office, 100 
Route 6A, Sandwich, Massachusetts during regular business hours. 
 
The meeting was held as scheduled with Commission members representing the towns of 
Dennis, Yarmouth, Barnstable, Sandwich, Brewster, and Orleans in attendance.  During the 
meeting, the Commission heard from the Complainant’s attorney, the Complainant’s neighbors, 
and a representative from the Town of Sandwich, and accepted public comment.  After 
discussion, the Commission voted three in favor and two opposed, with the Sandwich member 
not voting, to uphold the decision of the Sandwich Historic District Committee (which it referred 
to as the Sandwich Town Committee) “that the wood pile is not considered a structure.”  The 
Commission issued a written decision dated December 29.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Notice for the Commission’s November 28 meeting was sufficiently specific.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours i
n advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  
The notice must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, 
time and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed.  Id.  The list of topics shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally 
consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read 
the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-
35.4  We have found notice lacking when it failed altogether to identify the property or project to 
be discussed or the nature of the proposal.  See, e.g., OML 2024-67; 2024-43; OML 2023-128.  
However, the Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to list all tangential issues 
related to a particular topic.  See OML 2024-79; OML 2021-114; OML 2016-120. 
 
 The first complaint alleges that the notice for the Commission’s November 28 meeting 
was
 insufficiently specific because it referred to a “wall,” which the Complainant asserts was 
false and misleading because the Sandwich Historic District Committee’s decision being 
appealed to the Commission described the mound at issue as a “hedge” rather than a “wall.”  The 
complainant does not allege that the notice failed to include enough detail, but rather that a detail 
that was included was incorrect.  We do not find that the inclusion of the word “wall” rendered 
the meeting notice insufficiently specific.  We understand that the dispute centered around 
whether the mound at issue was a “wall” or a “structure” or a “hedge” or something else and 
therefore the precise wording is important to the Complainant; however, the inclusion of the 
word “wall” did not fail to advise the public of the issues to be discussed.  See OML 2024-109 
(error on meeting notice that indicated review of a “larger than previously approved” restaurant, 
rather than smaller than previously approved, did not render notice insufficient where the overall 
nature of the matter to be discussed was clearly presented).  Moreover, we note that the 
underlying complaint from the Complainant’s neighbors as well as the Sandwich Building 
Commissioner’s letter both used the word “wall.”  The notice satisfied the Open Meeting Law.   
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found on the Attorney General's website at https://www.mass. gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 The first complaint also alleges that the appeal petition referenced in the meeting notice 
and a
vailable for viewing in the clerk’s office included false and misleading information.  We 
review meeting notices for compliance with the Open Meeting Law; we do not review the 
accuracy of the content of supplemental filings or documents that are posted with or referenced 
in meeting notices.  See OML 2021-170.  Therefore, we find no violation with respect to this 
allegation.   
 
II. Commission member Michael Sullivan did not deliberate outside of a posted meeting.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and open 
to me
mbers of the public, unless an executive session is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, § § 20(a)-
(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any 
matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting 
Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  The Law defines 
“deliberation,” in relevant part, as “an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business 
within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  The Open Meeting Law does not restrict an individual’s right to 
make comments to the general public.  See OML 2020-139; OML 2017-111. Rather, the Open 
Meeting Law restricts communication between or among a quorum of a public body outside of a 
properly noticed meeting.  Therefore, the communicator’s intent in communicating is significant 
and must be examined.  See OML 2021-66 (comments made by a public body member to a 
member of the public explaining the public body member’s reasoning and concerns did not 
constitute deliberation); OML 2020-139 (a public body member’s comments regarding public 
body business that were posted to a large Facebook group were clearly directed to members of 
the public and therefore did not constitute deliberation); see also OML 2020-19. 
 
 The first complaint alleges that Commission member Michael Sullivan, the representative 
fr
om Sandwich, deliberated outside of a posted meeting when he conveyed his opinion regarding 
the merits of the neighbors’ appeal during a November 13 meeting of the Sandwich Historic 
District Committee.  The complaint notes that the November 13 meeting was recorded and 
available for viewing and therefore the comments could be seen by Commission members.  The 
Open Meeting Law does not prohibit such communications; the fact that other members of the 
Commission could happen to hear the communication is not determinative.  See OML 2021-133.  
This is especially true where we understand Commission member Sullivan’s comments were 
made during a posted meeting of a public body that any member of the public, including 
Commission members, were welcome to attend.  We find that Commission member Sullivan’s 
comments to the Sandwich Historic District Committee did not constitute communications 
“between or among a quorum” of Commission members, and did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
 
III. The minutes of the November 28 meeting were insufficient where they did not 
include a list of the documents used during the meeting, but the minutes were 
otherwise accurate. 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minut
es of all meetings, including executive sessions.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  Meeting minutes 
must include “the date, time and place [of the meeting], the members present or absent, a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
votes.”  Id.  When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for 
substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement.  See OML 2017-104; OML 2016-105; 
OML 2013-64.  By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough 
detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the 
minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See OML 2019-163; OML 2012-106.  
 
Regarding the required list of documents, the Open Meeting Law does not define what it 
mean
s for a document to be used at a meeting but, at a minimum, it is clear that where a 
document is physically present, verbally identified, and the contents are discussed by the 
members of a public body during an open meeting, it has been “used” for purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law.  See OML 2024-115; OML 2014-12; OML 2012-42.  
 
Minutes of all open sessions must be created and approved in a “timely manner.”  See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  “Timely manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or 
within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further 
delay.”  940 CMR 29.11 (2).  The Open Meeting Law does not govern the method for approving 
meeting minutes and public bodies may choose the method for approval.  See OML 2020-81; 
OML 2019-107; OML 2019-9.  We have stated that acceptable methods include, but are not 
limited to, approval by the public body chair alone or by another designated individual, approval 
by majority vote of the public body, approval by consent of the body (approved unless there is an 
objection), or approval by a parent public body on behalf of a subcommittee.  See OML 2024-25; 
OML 2019-107; OML 2019-25; OML 2017-34.  
 
As a preliminary matter, the second complaint alleges that the Commission did not 
“creat
e, meet to approve and maintain” accurate minutes of the November 28 meeting and that 
the minutes contain numerous inaccuracies.  Specifically, the complaint asserts that the 
Commission did not meet between November 28 and when the minutes were posted on 
December 29, which we understand as an assertion that the Commission did not approve the 
minutes before they were posted.  The Commission explained that it utilizes its filed decisions as 
the minutes of the respective meeting.  The Commission further explained that the Commission’s 
special act, Chapter 470 of the Acts of 1973, as amended, requires the Commission to file a 
decision within 30 days of an appeal hearing, which necessarily renders the decision—serving as 
minutes—timely for purposes of the Open Meeting Law as well.  We have explained that public 
bodies such as the Commission that conduct administrative hearings may adopt individual or 
collective written decisions as minutes of a meeting, provided they include the require 
components as set forth in G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  See OML 2017-200; OML 2015-65.  
Furthermore, as the Open Meeting Law does not dictate a method for approving meeting 
minutes, we are satisfied that the hearing decision that was finalized and filed on December 29 
served as approved minutes of the November 28 meeting.   
 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
Next, the second complaint alleges that the minutes of the November 28 meeting do not 
satisfy the requirements of the Open Meeting Law because they contain numerous inaccuracies.  
After review, we acknowledge that the hearing decision, serving as meeting minutes, is replete 
with typographical, spelling, and grammatical errors.  The minutes repeatedly misspell the 
Complainant’s last name and the names of other key individuals; thrice misspell the word 
“presentation” as “presitation”; and contain several other instances of apparent miscorrections, 
such as using the word “compassed” instead of “compost,” “striction” instead of “structure,” and 
“Germain” instead of “German.”  Although these errors are unfortunate, we decline to find that 
they rendered the minutes inaccurate, where a reader could wade through the errors and still 
clearly understand the nature of the discussions and the decisions made. 
 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the minutes of the Commission’s November 28 
meeting
 fail to include a list of documents, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  On this point, 
we—and the Commission—agree.  The minutes reference documents that were used at various 
points during the meeting, but do not contain a list of such documents.  It is not sufficient to 
merely reference documents used at the meeting throughout the body of the minutes; the minutes 
must include a list of the documents used.  See OML 2023-238; OML 2022-189; OML 2012-91.  
The Commission has acknowledged this requirement and committed to include a list of 
documents and exhibits used during each meeting in its hearing decisions going forward.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law when the minutes of its November 28 meeting failed to include a list of the documents used 
during the meeting.  We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law and caution that future findings of similar violations may be considered evidence 
of an intent to violate the Law.  
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Ellin Asack (via email: ) 
 
 

===PAGE 7===
7 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 