===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
November 3, 2021 
 
OML 2021 - 156 
 
 
Frank Parker 
Chair, Everett School Committee 
337 Broadway 
Everett, MA 02149 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Parker: 
 
This office received a complaint from Steven Fitzgerald on July 1, 2021, alleging that the 
Everett School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on February 16, and you 
responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated April 20.  The complaint 
alleges that the Committee improperly revealed, in open session, the identity of an individual 
who was to be discussed in executive session during a February 2 meeting.   
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, the complaint 
filed with our office requesting further review, and the notice of the Committee meeting held on 
February 2.  We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law.   
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body may enter executive session for any of ten 
enumerated purposes, provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session, and that the vote of each member 
is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21 (a), (b). 
 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
On February 2, the Committee convened in open session prior to the scheduled executive 
session, which was to discuss a pending Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination 
(MCAD) complaint.  One permissible reason to convene in executive session is “to discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).  We have previously stated that MCAD 
adjudicatory hearing procedures closely resemble traditional litigation, and therefore matters 
before MCAD constitute pending litigation.  See OML 2020-53; OML 2015-13.2  During the 
open session portion of the February 2 meeting, the individual who had filed the MCAD 
complaint was identified.  The complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law by identifying the individual in open session. 
 
The Committee admits that “a name was mentioned publicly.”  However, the Open 
Meeting Law does not require public bodies to meet in executive session but rather, if a public 
body chooses to meet in executive session, it must do so under one of the enumerated purposes.  
See OML 2017-18.  In fact, a public body may choose to discuss a topic in open session even if 
such discussion may be appropriate for an executive session.  Moreover, the law does not require 
that public body members keep topics discussed in executive session confidential nor does it 
impose penalties for members’ failure to do so.  See OML 2014-91.  We find that the 
Committee’s actions do not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law.3 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Steven Fitzgerald – By email only:  
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
3 We express no opinion as to whether other laws or regulations, outside the jurisdiction of this office, may require 
public body members to maintain the confidentiality of such information. 
