===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 13, 2015 
OML 2015-170 
D.M. Moschos, Esq. 
Mirick O'Connell 
100 Front Street 
Worcester, MA 01608 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Moschos: 
This office received a complaint from Allen Nitschelm on behalf of the Acton Forum, 
dated June 15, 2015, alleging that the Acton-Boxborough Regional School Committee (the 
"Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the 
complaint alleges that the Committee failed to provide Mr. Nitschelm with the minutes of the 
Committee's October 9, 2014 executive session meeting following his request. The complaint 
was originally filed with the Committee on March 24, 2015. The Committee responded by letter 
dated May 12, 2015.1 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we considered this 
matter. Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to make available the minutes of its October 9, 2014 meeting following a request. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Committee, the 
Committee's response with attachments, and the complaint filed with our office. Additionally, 
we reviewed the notice for, and open session minutes of, the Committee's October 9, 2014 
meeting. We reviewed, in camera, and subject to some redaction, the minutes of the 
Committee's October 9, 2014 meeting. We reviewed a letter with attachments from the 
Committee's Counsel addressed to our office, dated July 7, 2015. Finally, we spoke with 
Counsel for the Committee, Corey Higgins and D.M. Moschos, by telephone on June 23, 2015.2 
1 We remind the Committee that, unless an extension of time has been granted, a public body must, within 14 
business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, send a copy of the complaint to the Attorney General's 
Office and notify the Attorney General's Office of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 
29.05(5), (6). 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee met on October 9, 2014, and voted to enter 
into executive session "pursuant to MGL chapter 3 OA, section 21 (a)(7), to comply with, or act 
under the authority of, any general or special law. This is to comply with the Massachusetts 
Right to Privacy Law (MGL chapter 214, section IB) and the Massachusetts Public Records Law 
(MGL chapter 4, section 7(26)(c)." Because the executive session minutes have not been 
publicly released, we do not recount their content in detail here. However, we note that during 
the executive session the Committee discussed the investigation of a personnel matter. 
Mr. Nitschelm requested the minutes of the Committee's October 9, 2014 executive 
session in an email to the Committee on February 16, 2015. The Acton-Boxborough Regional 
School District Superintendent of Schools responded by letter dated February 24, 2015. In that 
letter, the Superintendent wrote that the minutes were exempt from disclosure, 
(1) Under Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 4, Section 7, clause twenty-sixth, sub 
clauses (a) and (c), specifically, Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 149, Section 
52C and Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 214, Section IB, because matters 
discussed at executive sessions pertaining to personnel issues are permanently exempt 
and protected from disclosure, and (2) because of attorney-client privilege. 
Mr. Nitschelm filed an Open Meeting Law complaint to challenge this denial, and 
simultaneously filed an appeal with the Supervisor of Records within the Secretary of the 
Commonwealth's Office. We resolve only the Open Meeting Law complaint in this letter. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Committee's October 9. 2014 Executive Session was not Justified by the Purpose 
Cited by the Committee. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be conducted in an open 
session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20-21. Public bodies may enter a closed, 
executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. BOA, § 
21(a). The exceptions to the general rule that meetings of a public body shall be open are 
narrowly construed. See McRea v. Flaherty. 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637, 641 (2008). The public 
body bears the burden of demonstrating applicability of the relevant exception as the reason for 
the executive session. See District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. School Comm. of Wayland. 455 
Mass. 561, 566 (2009). One of the ten permissible reasons for executive session is "[t]o comply 
with, or act under the authority of, any general or special law or federal grant-in-aid 
requirements." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7) ("Purpose 7"). A public body entering executive session 
under Pmpose 7 must state the specific law that requires the public body to keep its deliberations 
confidential. See Wayland. 455 Mass. at 569 (explaining proper use of Purpose 7 to enter 
executive session requires enumeration of enabling law); OML 2014-42.3 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/opemneeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
During the Committee's October 9, 2014 meeting, the Committee voted to enter into 
executive session under Purpose 7, to comply with "the Massachusetts Right to Privacy Law 
(MGL chapter 214, section IB) and the Massachusetts Public Records Law (MGL chapter 4, 
section 7(26)(c)." The subject of the executive session was an investigation into a personnel 
matter. The Committee's unwillingness to subject the reputation of the employee to public 
scrutiny prior to any public discussion of the actions of the employee served as its justification 
for invoking the individual's statutory right to privacy. 
The right to privacy embodied in G.L. c. 214, § IB, proscribes the "disclosure of facts 
about an individual that are of a highly personal or intimate nature when there exists no 
legitimate, countervailing interest." Bratt v. International Business Machs. Corp.. 392 Mass. 
508, 518 (1984); Howell v. Enterprise Publ. Co.. 72 Mass. App. Ct. 739, 749 (2008), overturned 
on other grounds, 455 Mass. 641 (2010). The Committee's invocation of the statutory right to 
privacy to convene this executive session was in error. "[I]n order to be an actionable invasion 
of privacy, the facts disclosed about a person must be of no legitimate public concern." Howell. 
72 Mass. App. Ct. at 749. Although we do not recount the details of the executive session, our 
reading of the minutes suggests a legitimate public concern regarding the activities of an 
employee that the Committee sought to investigate, namely the disposition of public funds. See 
id. at 750; George W. Prescott Publ. Co. v. Register of Probate for Norfolk Countv. 395 Mass. 
274, 279 (1985) (legitimate public interest in knowing that public servants perform duties 
efficiently and lawfully). Furthermore, and perhaps of greater significance, no evidence 
demonstrates that the Committee's discussion turned to issues of a highly personal or intimate 
nature. Therefore, we find that the statutory right to privacy was not a valid justification for 
entering executive session. See OML 2014-42. 
The Committee also cited the "Massachusetts Public Records Law (MGL chapter 4, 
section 7(26)(c)," as a basis for its Purpose 7 executive session. Massachusetts General Laws 
Chapter 4, Section 7, clause 26(c) exempts from the definition of public record "personnel and 
medical files or information; also any other materials or data relating to a specifically named 
individual, the disclosure of which may constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy." 
While it remains possible that a public body could enter into executive session under Puipose 7, 
citing G.L. c. 4, § 7(26)(c), to review a document specifically protected from disclosure as a 
personnel record, that is not what occurred during the Committee's October 9, 2014 executive 
session. See Wayland. 455 Mass. at 569 (finding that in light of the requirements of both the 
Open Meeting Law and the Public Records Law, a public body could meet in executive session 
to draft a document that was protected by law from public disclosure).4 Because the 
Committee's discussion did not involve a review of a document exempt from disclosure under 
the Public Records Law, the Committee was not able to cite the Public Records Law as a basis 
for its Purpose 7 executive session. See OML 2015-88; OML 2012-104. 
The Committee also cited G.L. c. 149, § 52(c) as a basis for its executive session. This 
statute defines the personnel record of an employee and describes the right of the employee to 
review that record. Here, again, there was no discussion or review of documents contained in a 
4 The specific document at issue in Wayland would now be a public record under the revised Open Meeting Law. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e). 
3 
===PAGE 4===
personnel record. In the absence of such a review, this statute does not appear to provide any 
basis for a personnel discussion to occur in executive session under Purpose 7. 
Notwithstanding the inapplicability of Purpose 7, the discussion that occurred in 
executive session on October 9, 2014 was of the sort that may be held behind closed-doors. If 
the Committee wished to discuss the matter in private to protect the employee's reputation, it 
could have done so by citing the executive session purpose allowing discussion of "reputation, 
character ... discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public 
employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). When relying on 
executive session Purpose 1, however the Open Meeting Law requires that the individual being 
discussed be afforded certain procedural protections. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). For example, 
the individual must be notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the 
proposed executive session. Id. The individual must also be afforded the right to be present 
during deliberations that involve that individual, the right to speak on his or her own behalf, the 
right to have counsel present, and the right to have an independent record of the meeting made at 
the individual's own expense. Id Because the Committee did not afford the employee these 
rights, the executive session discussion was not properly held under this puipose either. See id. 
2. The Committee May not Withhold its October 9. 2014 Executive Session Minutes under 
the Open Meeting Law. 
The minutes of an executive session may be withheld from disclosure to the public in 
their entirety as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but 
no longer; provided, however, that the executive session was held in compliance with G.L. c. 
30A, § 21. G.L. BOA, § 22(f). When the purpose for which a valid executive session was held 
has been served, the minutes must be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or one or 
more of the exemptions under the Public Records Law apply to withhold the minutes, or any 
portion thereof, from disclosure. Id. Upon request by any person to inspect or copy the minutes 
of an executive session or any portion thereof, the body must respond to the request within 10 
days following receipt and shall release any such minutes not covered by an exemption. G.L. c. 
3OA, § 22(g)(2). 
Although we find that the subject of the October 9, 2014 executive session was of the sort 
that may be discussed behind closed doors, because the executive session was not held in 
compliance with G.L. c. 30A, § 21, the Committee may not continue to withhold the minutes of 
the meeting under the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(f); OML 2014-42; OML 2014-
30; OML 2014-17. The Committee may continue to withhold the minutes in whole or in part 
under any applicable exemptions to the Public Records Law or the attorney/client privilege. We 
refer the complainant to the Supervisor of Records in the Office of the Secretary of the 
Commonwealth for a determination as to whether the minutes may continue to be withheld under 
the Public Records Law. However, as the subject of the executive session had a right to be 
present during the executive session and to make her own independent record of those 
proceedings, but was denied those rights by the Committee, we order that the October 9, 2014 
executive session minutes be provided to the subject of the discussion, in their entirety, within 
thirty (30) days of the Committee's receipt of this determination. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to state a proper 
purpose for its October 9, 2014 executive session meeting. We order the Committee's 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution the Committee that a 
similar future violation may be considered evidence of an intentional violation of the Law. 
Additionally, because the October 9, 2014 executive session was not held in compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, the Committee may not rely upon that law as the basis for continuing to 
withhold these minutes. Finally, we order the Committee to release the minutes of its October 9, 
2014 executive session in accordance with the order in Section 2 of the above Discussion. 
We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve 
any other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Committee. Please feel 
free to contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Acton-Boxborough Regional School Committee 
Allen Nitschelm 
Corey Higgins, Esq. 
Shawn Williams, Supervisor of Records, Secretary of the Commonwealth 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
5 