===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONEASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
September 27, 2017 
OML 2017-155 
Heath Broadband Committee 
c/o Kara M. Leistyna 
Heath Town Coordinator 
1 East Main Street 
Heath, MA 01346 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Leistyna: 
This office received a complaint from Heather Row on August 31, alleging that the Heath 
Broadband Committee ("Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' 
Specifically, the complaint alleges that four members of the Committee met on June 1 in a closed 
meeting without notifying the full Committee and without posting notice for the meeting.2 The 
complaint further alleges that following the June 1 meeting, the chair of the Committee 
unlawfully amended the meeting notice of a Committee meeting scheduled for June 5. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Committee on June 5. The Committee responded by 
letter dated June 23. 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. 
The Committee, which has since been disbanded, consisted of eight members. The 
complaint alleges that four members of the Committee held a meeting on June 1 and discussed 
business without a quorum present. The Committee did in fact meet without a quorum present, 
as confirmed by the Committee's response to the complaint, although the Committee contends 
that only three members were present. Regardless, either three or four members is less than a 
quorum, which is five. 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017. 
2 In her request to our office for further review, Ms. Row includes additional allegations that were not included in 
the original complaint filed with the Committee. We decline to review the additional allegations because they are 
beyond the scope of the original complaint filed with the public body. See OML 2015-56; OML 2016-51. 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
===PAGE 2===
The Open Meeting Law defines "deliberation" as, "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction." See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Open Meeting Law 
defines "meeting" as, "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body's jurisdiction." Id. Finally, the Law defines "quorum" as, "a simple majority of the 
members of the public body, unless otherwise provided in a general or special law, executive 
order or other authorizing provision." Id Here, because a quorum of the Committee was not 
present, it did not deliberate, thus there was no meeting requiring compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2014-93; OML 2013-169; OML 2013-106; OML 
2015-125.3 Accordingly, the Committee was not obligated to post notice or invite the other 
Committee members to the gathering. 
The complaint further alleges that following the June 1 gathering, the Committee chair 
unlawfully revised the meeting notice for the June 5 Committee meeting. The Open Meeting 
Law requires a public body to "post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays" and requires that the meeting notice 
contain a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." 
See G.L. c. 30A § 20(b). The chair of the Committee posted the revised meeting notice for the 
June 5 meeting on May 30, upon receiving a request from the Select Board. The revision was 
made more than 48 hours prior to the June 5 meeting. Even if the chair had revised the notice 
within 48 hours of the June 5 meeting, the revision only would have constituted a violation if the 
updated topics had been reasonably anticipated by the Chair more than 48 hours prior to the 
meeting. 
For the above reasons, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law, and now consider 
this matter closed. Please feel free to contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
cc; Heather Row 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.eov/ago/openmeeting. 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 