===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
May 16, 2019 
OML 2019-47
Jill M. Murray 
Assistant City Solicitor 
City of Newton 
City Hall
100 Commonwealth Avenue 
Newton Centre, MA 02459
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Murray:
This office received a complaint from Steven Howitt on November 16 alleging that the 
Newton School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§
18-25.1 The complaint was filed with the Committee on September 27, and you responded, on 
behalf of the Committee, by letter dated October 19, following an extension of time granted by 
our office. The complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by holding 
a meeting at a location other than that listed on the meeting notice and by failing to follow the 
proper procedure before convening in executive session.
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
meeting in a location other than what was listed on the meeting notice but that the Committee 
otherwise complied with the required procedures for convening in executive session. In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed 
the original and revised notices of the Committee meeting held on September 4, as well as the 
open and executive session minutes of that meeting. Finally, we spoke with you on December 6.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. On August 30 at 4:05 P.M., the Committee posted notice of 
a meeting to be held on Tuesday, September 4. The notice stated that the Committee would 
convene in executive session at 5:30 P.M in Room 304 of the Education Center at 100 Walnut 
Street in Newton for collective bargaining strategy with two specific unions and an update on 
two pending litigation matters. The notice indicated that the Committee would reconvene in
o
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.

===PAGE 2===
open session at 7:00 P.M. but did not list any additional topics other than the executive session 
topics.
On August 31 at 11:19 A.M., the Committee amended the September 4 meeting notice. 
The amended notice stated that the Committee would convene in executive session at 5:30 P.M. 
to conduct strategy regarding negotiations with two specific unions and to discuss two pending 
litigation matters. The amended notice then listed ten topics that would be discussed at 7:00 
P.M. when the Committee reconvened in open session.2 The place of the meeting listed on this 
notice was 100 Walnut Street, Education Center, Frazier Room (#210). The meeting notice did 
not indicate that the executive session would be held in a different location.
The Education Center contains an electronic notice board in its entryway. On September 
4, the notice board referenced a Committee meeting in Room 210, and an executive session in 
Room 304.
On September 4, the Committee convened in open session in Room 304 of the Education 
Center. Chair Ruth Goldman moved to enter into executive session for the purpose of discussing 
strategy with respect to two pending litigation matters and negotiations with the Newton 
Educational Secretaries Association.3 The Board approved a unanimous vote by roll call to 
convene in executive session. During the executive session, the Board discussed the two 
pending litigation matters and contract terms for teachers and secretaries. The Committee then 
reconvened in open session at 7:03 P.M. in Room 210 and discussed the noticed topics.
DISCUSSION
Public bodies must post notice of all meetings stating “the date, time and place of such 
meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any of 
the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Prior to entering 
executive session, a public body must convene in open session. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(b)(1). A 
majority of members of the body must vote to go into executive session; the chair must state the 
purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without
2 Although not raised in the complaint, we note that, because of the Labor Day holiday, the notice was amended 
within 48 hours of the September 4 meeting. A public body may not add anticipated topics to a notice within 48 
hours of a meeting but may only add topics that were not anticipated 48 hours before the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b); OML 2017-186. We question here whether all ten open session topics were unanticipated. We remind the 
Committee that all anticipated topics must be posted in sufficient detail on the notice at least 48 hours before the 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).
3 Although not raised in the complaint, we note that the chair did not announce that the Committee would be 
conducting negotiations with the Newton Teacher’s Association even though it was included on the notice and 
discussed in executive session. We remind the Committee that executive session topics must be described, both in 
the meeting notice and in an announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District 
Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm, of Wavland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the 
reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only notification given the public that a 
[public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so 
was proper or improper”).
2

===PAGE 3===
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called; and the chair must state 
whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 22(b)(2)-(4).
The complaint alleges that the Committee violated the law by holding its September 4 
executive session in a location other than the one listed on the meeting notice and by failing to 
follow the proper procedures when it entered into executive session. The original notice stated 
that the September 4 executive session would take place in Room 304 of the Education Center. 
However, the revised notice indicated that the meeting would occur in Room 210.4 Here, the 
Committee convened in Room 304 and completed the appropriate procedural steps before 
convening in executive session, including announcing the purposes for the executive session and 
taking a roll call vote. In this respect, the Committee complied with the Open Meeting Law’s 
procedural requirements for entering executive session. However, the public has a right to 
witness these procedural steps in order to observe the vote and leam the purpose for the 
executive session. See OML 2013-195.5 Because the September 4 revised meeting notice 
inaccurately identified the location where those procedural steps would take place, members of 
the public were denied this right. See OML 2018-95. As such, we find that the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and 
we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Steven Howitt
Newton School Committee
4 We recognize that the electronic notice board in the Education Center listed an executive session in Room 304. 
However, we look to the official method of notice posting adopted by the municipality when determining the 
sufficiency of a meeting notice. In Newton, the official posting location is the municipal website.
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
