===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 27, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 131 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Alexander M. Castro, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC   
  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Attorney Castro: 
 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan on March 22, 2021,1 alleging that 
the Ashland Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 4, and after an extension of time 
granted by our office, you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated March 5. The 
complaint relates to the Board’s January 6 meeting and alleges that: 1) the notice for the meeting 
failed to identify specific candidates that would be considered for appointment to the Affordable 
Housing Trust Fund (the “Trust”); 2) the topic “Affordable Housing Trust – Appointment(s) and 
membership” was confusing where it used a parenthetical plural when there was only one open 
seat on the Trust and was insufficient to inform the public that the Board would discuss adding 
additional seats to the Trust; 3) the Board discussed a topic that was not included on the meeting 
notice; and 4) the meeting notice was amended within 48 hours of the meeting to include the 
appointment of the Building Commissioner. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when the 
notice for its January 6 meeting failed to identify the specific candidates being considered for 
appointment to the Trust and failed to indicate that the Board would discuss adding additional 
seats to the Trust. Furthermore, we find the Board intentionally violated the Law as we have 
previously advised the Board that meeting notices must identify the individuals being considered 
for appointment, if known. We find the Board did not violate the Law in the other ways alleged. 
 
1 All dates are in 2021, unless otherwise noted. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
In reaching this determination we reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, the request for further review, the notice and minutes for the Board’s January 
6 meeting, and additional information provided by the Board in responses to requests from our 
office. Additionally, we communicated by phone with Counsel for the Board,2 the Chair of the 
Board,3 and the Town’s Treasurer/Collector.  
 
FACTS 
 
 The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on January 6. Relevant to the complaint 
at issue here, the meeting notice included the following topics:  
 
Scheduled Hearings/Appearances  
 . . .  
b. 7:45 pm – Affordable Housing Trust – Appointment(s) and 
Membership  
 
Consent Agenda  
. . .  
c. Notification of the Town Manager’s Appointment of Aidan Shepard as 
a Light Equipment Operator for Cemetery, Parks and Trees Department. 
 
 On January 5, the Town Manager sent a formal offer letter to Douglas Scott for the 
position of Building Commissioner. On January 5 at 1:32 p.m., the consent agenda portion of the 
notice for the January 6 meeting was amended to read, in relevant part, as follows: “Notification 
of the Town Manager’s Appointment of Aidan Shepard as a Light Equipment Operator for 
Cemetery, Parks and Trees Department and Douglas Scott as Building Commissioner.” 
(emphasis added). On January 6, Mr. Scott accepted the position of Building Commissioner.  
 
Separately, prior to the Board’s January 6 meeting, the Town’s Treasurer/Collector had 
been working with legal counsel regarding bond renewals. On January 6, the Treasurer/Collector 
received the final bond renewal document from legal counsel. Because the interest rate at the 
time was low, the Treasurer/Collector felt it was important that the Board vote on the bond 
renewals right away and so she informed the Chair that this matter should be voted on at the 
Board’s meeting scheduled for that evening.    
 
 The Board convened its meeting on January 6 as scheduled. After calling the meeting to 
order, the Chair asked the Board to approve the inclusion of the bond renewals to the portion of 
the agenda reserved for new and old business. The Board was in favor of including the new 
topic.  
 
During discussion of the topic “Affordable Housing Trust – Appointment(s) and 
Membership,” the chair of the Trust explained that at the Trust’s December 17, 2020, meeting it 
voted to recommend the appointment of Alan Galiwango to fill one vacant seat on the Trust. The 
 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
3 At the time of the events relevant to the instant complaint Yolanda Greaves was Chair of the Board. Any reference 
to the Chair in this determination refers to Ms. Greaves, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
chair of the Trust further explained that the Trust wished to add two associate member seats and 
appoint Bernadette Lunkuse and Barbara Sekesgundu to those seats. The Board then discussed 
adding associate members to the Trust. One member of the Board explained that he had met with 
the three candidates previously and supported the appointment of all three. Thereafter, the Board 
heard from Mr. Galiwango and Ms. Sekesgundu. The Board then voted to appoint Mr. 
Galiwango to fill the vacant seat on the Trust and to appoint Ms. Lunkuse and Ms. Sekesgundu 
to the Trust as nonvoting, associate members for a limited term ending on August 31, 2021. 
Next, the Chair read the consent agenda aloud and the Board voted to approve the consent 
agenda as read. Finally, toward the end of the meeting the Board took up the topic of bond 
renewals and voted to approve the bond renewals as presented at the meeting.  
 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on January 20. The notice included the 
topic “Ratify the vote taken on January 6, 2021 with regards to the Town’s Bonds and Notes.” 
During the Board’s January 20 meeting it read into the record, and voted to ratify, the vote taken 
on January 6.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law states in relevant part that, “[e]xcept in an emergency, . . . a 
public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting . . . Notice 
shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time and 
place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies must list anticipated topics on a 
meeting notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a 
topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the 
topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2019-70.4 
In general, a public body must include on its meeting notices the names of the specific 
individuals who are being considered for employment or appointment. See OML 2020-80; OML 
2016-167; OML 2011-23. 
 
A public body may amend a meeting notice within 48 hours of a meeting to add a 
previously unanticipated topic. See 940 CMR 29.03(1)(d); OML 2020-29. Likewise, a public 
body may discuss a truly unanticipated topic at a meeting even without having included it on a 
meeting notice, although the Attorney General strongly recommends that public bodies, as a 
matter of best practice, table discussion of topics that might be of significant interest to the 
public in order to include such topics on a meeting notice for a subsequent meeting if the topic 
can wait until a subsequent meeting. See OML 2019-131; OML 2018-119. 
 
 
 
 
 
4 Open Meeting Law complaint determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
I. The Notice Topic “Affordable Housing Trust – Appointment(s) and Membership” 
Was Insufficiently Specific Where It Failed to Identify the Individuals Being 
Considered for Appointment to the Trust and Where It Did Not Indicate That the 
Board Would Discuss Adding Associate Member Seats to the Trust. 
With respect to the notice topic “Affordable Housing Trust – Appointment(s) and 
Membership,” the complaint alleges that 1) the addition of “(s)” at the end of the word 
“Appointment” rendered the topic confusing because there was only one open seat on the Trust 
at the time; 2) the topic did not sufficiently inform the public that the Board would discuss 
adding two new associate members to the Trust; and 3) the Board failed to identify the specific 
individuals to be considered for appointment to the Trust. First, we do not find that the 
parenthetical plural at the end of the word “Appointment” rendered the notice insufficient as to 
that topic. Indeed, because the Board anticipated adding associate seats to the Trust and 
discussing three candidates, the use of a plural more accurately reflected the anticipated nature of 
the discussion.  
 
Second, we find, and the Board acknowledges, that where the Board anticipated 
discussing both appointments to the Trust and adding associate member seats to the Trust, the 
topic “Affordable Housing Trust – Appointment(s) and Membership,” was not sufficiently 
specific and did not reasonably notify the public that the Board would discuss adding associate 
seats to the Trust.5 See OML 2012-32. A public body need not list each and every detail about a 
notice topic in order to comply with the Law’s requirements. See OML 2019-134; OML 2020-
25. However, in this instance, the notice topic did not indicate at all that the Board would discuss 
expanding the Trust to add new associate member seats. 
 
Third, we find, and the Board acknowledges, that the Board violated the Law when it 
anticipated discussing specific individuals for appointment to the Trust at the Board’s January 6 
meeting and did not identify those individuals on the notice for that meeting. See OML 2020-45.  
 
We must next determine whether the Board’s violation was, as the Complainant urges, 
intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public 
body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. 
An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of 
the Law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law. Id. Over the past few years, the Board has twice been expressly warned that to the 
extent it is aware of the identities of individuals being considered for appointment, the Open 
Meeting Law requires that those individuals’ names be included on the meeting notice. See OML 
2018-38; OML 2018-94. Therefore, we find that the Board intentionally violated the Law by 
failing to specify on the notice for its January 6 meeting the individual candidates being 
considered for appointment to the Trust. We note, however, that the Board recently posted notice 
for meetings to be held on August 18 and September 1 which properly included the names of 
individuals to be considered for reappointment, including the names of the two individuals 
appointed as associate members to the Trust, and which also properly included the name of Mr. 
 
5 To the extent the complaint alleges that the Board did not have authority to add associate member seats to the 
Trust, we decline to review this allegation as it does not allege a violation of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 
2019-85; OML 2020-27. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Galiwango in a notice topic related to the adjustment of the length of his term on the Trust. The 
Board appears to have implemented the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. We do not order 
further remedial action but do caution the Board that similar violations in the future may result in 
the imposition of a civil penalty of up to $1,000 per intentional violation.  
 
II. Neither Amending the Notice for the January 6 Meeting Within 48 Hours of the 
Meeting Nor Discussing and Voting on Bond Renewals During the January 6 
Meeting Violated the Open Meeting Law.   
 With respect to the remaining allegations, we find that the Board did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the notice for the Board’s January 6 
meeting was amended within 48 hours of the meeting to include the appointment of the Building 
Commissioner. Although both the Complainant and the Board frame this as an issue of whether 
the circumstances surrounding the appointment of the Building Commissioner constituted an 
emergency such that the Board was relieved of the requirement to post notice 48 hours in 
advance of the meeting, we find the issue to be whether the topic was unanticipated such that the 
Board could freely amend the meeting notice to add the appointment of the Building 
Commissioner. The Open Meeting Law requires that all meeting notices include a list of the 
topics the chair reasonably anticipates 48 hours in advance will be discussed at the meeting. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(b). When a truly unanticipated topic arises, a public body may, but is not required 
to, amend its meeting notice within 48 hours of the meeting to include the unanticipated topic. 
See 940 CMR 29.03(1)(d); OML 2020-29; OML 2020-122; OML 2019-131.6  
 
Here, we find that the Town Manager did not formally extend an employment offer to 
Mr. Scott until January 5, and therefore the topic “Notification of the Town Manager’s 
Appointment of . . . Douglas Scott as Building Commissioner” could not have been anticipated 
more than 48 hours prior to the January 6 meeting. As such, the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by amending the notice for the January 6 meeting to include this unanticipated 
topic. In fact, although the Board could have discussed this topic without including it on the 
notice at all since the topic was not reasonably anticipated 48 hours in advance of the meeting, 
the Board did precisely what we advise in such circumstances and amended its meeting notice to 
include the unanticipated topic so that the public would have as much notice as possible. See 
OML 2020-29; OML 2019-163.  
 
Finally, we find that where the topic of bond renewals was not anticipated by the Chair 
48 hours in advance of the January 6 meeting, the Board did not violate the Law by discussing 
and voting on the bond renewals. Again, both the Complainant and the Board frame this as an 
issue of whether the circumstances surrounding the bond renewals constituted an emergency. 
Again, we find the issue to be whether the topic was unanticipated such that the Board could 
freely discuss and vote on the bond renewals even though the topic was not listed on the meeting 
notice. A public body may discuss a truly unanticipated topic at a meeting even if that topic was 
not included on the notice for the meeting. See OML 2020-172; OML 2019-131; OML 2018-
 
6 Although not raised in the complaint, we remind the Board that when it amends a meeting notice within 48 hours 
of a meeting, the date and time that the meeting notice was originally posted and the date and time that it was 
amended must both be conspicuously recorded on or with the notice. 940 CMR 29.03(1)(d). Here the notice 
included the date and time it was amended but not the date and time it was originally posted.  
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
119. Here, the Treasurer/Collector worked with legal counsel to draft a proposed bond renewal 
for the Board to consider and made the Chair aware that this topic was ripe for the Board to 
discuss and vote on only after the Treasurer/Collector received the finalized bond renewal 
document from legal counsel on January 6, the same day as the Board’s meeting. Although we 
encourage public bodies to postpone discussion and action on unanticipated topics if the topic 
can wait, they are not required to postpone, and in this case the Treasurer/Collector and the Chair 
felt the matter could not wait as the Town would have lost the opportunity to take advantage of a 
preferable interest rate if the Board had waited.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when the notice for its January 6 meeting failed to identify the individual candidates being 
considered for appointment to the Trust and did not include sufficient specificity to inform the 
public that it would discuss adding associate member seats to the Trust. We find this violation to 
be intentional where we have twice previously advised the Board of the requirement to identify 
on its meeting notices those individuals anticipated for appointment. We order immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law. We do not order further remedial. However, we 
caution the Board that similar violations in the future may result in the imposition of a civil 
penalty of up to $1,000 per intentional violation. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Ashland Select Board (via e-mail:  
 Stephen Morgan (via e-mail:   
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
