===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 3, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 189 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Corey F. Williams, Esq. 
City Solicitor 
City of Lowell Law Department 
cwilliams@lowellma.gov 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Williams: 
 
This office received two complaints from Laura Ortiz on March 26, 2024, alleging that 
the Lowell City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
Both complaints were originally filed with the Council on or around December 15, 2023, and 
you responded on behalf of the Council by letter dated January 25, 2024, following an extension 
of time granted by our office.  The first complaint alleges that the Council deliberated outside of 
a posted meeting; posted an insufficient notice for its November 21 meeting; and approved 
insufficient minutes of its November 14 meeting.
1  The second complaint alleges that the 
Council deliberated outside of a posted meeting; posted insufficient notices for its December 5 
and December 12 meetings; and approved insufficient minutes of its November 21 and 
December 5 meetings.
2   
 
After review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by approving 
insufficient minutes of its November 14, November 21, and December 5 meetings.  We also find 
that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a posted meeting 
around or prior to November 20.  We find that the Council did not violate the Law in the other 
ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints filed with the 
 
1 All dates refer to the year 2023, except where indicated. 
2 The complaints include additional allegations that, even if true, would not constitute violations of the Open 
Meeting Law.  For example, the complaints allege that confidential documents were  “leaked” to local newspapers, 
that actions of Councilors “disenfranchised” voters, and that the Council “illegally gave up its authority to function 
as a body.”  The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25, and we decline to review allegations that, even if true, would not constitute violations of the Open 
Meeting Law.  See OML Declination 5-31-17 (North Attleborough Board of Selectmen); OML Declination 1-25-16 
(Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners).   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Council, the Council’s combined response, the Complainant’s request for review of the 
complaints, and approximately 27 exhibits that the Complainant submitted along with the 
complaints.  We also viewed video recordings, meeting notices, and meeting minutes of the 
Council’s November 14, November 21, December 5, and December 12 meetings.3   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Council deliberated outside of a posted meeting regarding a public statement that 
was issued on or around November 20, but we do not otherwise find evidence of 
deliberation outside of a posted meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Authority of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  
 
For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the 
mem
bers of a public body.  Id.  A one-way communication from one public body member to a 
quorum on matters within the body's jurisdiction constitutes deliberation for purposes of the 
Open Meeting Law, even if no other public body member responds.  See OML 2024-141; OML 
2016-104; OML 2015-33; OML 2012-73.4  A public body may not engage in a serial 
communication whereby a quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of 
a meeting on a particular subject matter within the public body's jurisdiction.  See OML 2022-
192; OML 2015-3; OML 2012-84; OML 2011-27; McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 
(2008) (holding that private serial communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law 
and may not be used to circumvent the intent of the law).  Accordingly, a public body member 
individually “polling” fellow public body members outside of a meeting regarding a matter 
within the public body’s jurisdiction constitutes serial communication and is prohibited.  See 
OML 2023-224; OML 2023-176; OML 2020-160. 
 
The first complaint alleges that on and pri
 or to November 20, a quorum of the Council 
deliberated regarding a joint statement to be made to InsideLowell, a local media platform, 
calling for the resignation of Councilor Corey Robinson.  The statement read, in part, “As elected 
officials who share a commitment to public service... we believe that Councilor Robinson’s 
 
33 Video recordings of Council meetings are available on the Lowell Telemedia Center’s YouTube channel, 
https://www.youtube.com/@LTCLowellMA/streams. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
continued participation in the proceedings of the City Council... would significantly erode the 
public trust in our elected body. ... For these reasons, we strongly urge Councilor Robinson to 
step aside from his position on the City Council...”  The complaint specifically alleges that 
Councilor Wayne Jenness coordinated and corresponded with a quorum of nine Councilors 
regarding issuing the statement.  The Council denies that Councilor Jenness called a quorum of 
Councilors regarding the statement, and further asserts that the joint statement was made on 
behalf of five Councilors—less than a quorum—and therefore did not constitute deliberation. 
 
Based on all the information before us, we find that a quorum of Councilors coordinated 
to iss
ue a joint statement calling for Councilor Robinson’s resignation.  The Council is an 11-
member public body; therefore, six members constitute a quorum.  Although only five 
Councilors joined in the statement that was issued to InsideLowell, we find, and the Council has 
not directly denied, that, as reported by InsideLowell, at least one and likely most other 
Councilors were contacted about joining in the statement.  For example, Councilor Kim Scott 
subsequently stated, “Regarding earlier statements by my colleagues, I was asked to sign on but 
believed it was proper to reach out to the City Solicitor for opinion first.”   
 
Moreover, we find that the statement calling for Councilor Robinson’s resignation was a 
matter
 within the Council’s jurisdiction.  We have explained in previous determination letters 
that a discussion was outside a body’s jurisdiction where it concerned purely interpersonal 
dynamics, see OML 2011-38; a completed decision over which the body had no further 
authority, see OML 2017-88; and political statements on matters not likely to come before the 
body, see OML 2014-135.  We have also explained that a topic falls outside the scope of a 
body’s jurisdiction where: (i) it does not involve the public body’s exercise of governmental 
business, policy, or administration; (ii) it relates to personal matters, such as the safety and well-
being of public body members and/or their families; and (iii) collective action by the body, such 
as taking a vote, is not anticipated on the topic.  See OML 2018-1.  However, we have 
consistently stated that discussion of a public body’s operation is a matter within its jurisdiction.  
See OML 2022-161; OML 2022-129; OML 2016-81.  We have specifically found that 
discussion of a public body’s membership was a matter within the public body’s jurisdiction 
even when the public body itself did not have final authority over its membership.  See OML 
2022-108 (finding that public body violated the Open Meeting Law when a quorum of members 
coordinated to submit a letter requesting that the Governor remove an appointed member).  The 
Councilors’ statement to InsideLowell was a matter within the Council’s jurisdiction where it 
addressed the Council’s membership and, moreover, addressed the perceived impact of 
Councilor Robinson’s continued participation on the Council.  Because a quorum of the Council 
communicated regarding the statement outside of a posted meeting, we find that the Council 
violated the Open Meeting Law.
5 
 
 
5 We emphasize that we find a violation of the Open Meeting Law because a quorum of Councilors coordinated, 
collectively as Councilors, to issue a joint statement on a matter within the Council’s jurisdiction.  We have 
explained that the Open Meeting Law does not restrict an individual public body member's right to make comments 
to the general public.  Rather, it restricts communication between or among a quorum of a public body outside of a 
meeting.  See OML 2021-133; OML 2017-111.  The fact that a statement to the public may happen to reach or be 
seen by a quorum of fellow members is not determinative.  See OML 2021-133; OML 2021-41.  . 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
The complaints also allege that the Council deliberated outside of a posted meeting on 
several other occasions, including to pressure federal elected representatives to make a statement 
regarding Councilor Robinson; to discuss filling Councilor Robinson’s seat; to coordinate to 
table Councilor Robinson’s agenda items during the Council’s December 5 and December 12 
meetings; and to place negative agenda items against Councilor Robinson and to censure him.  
After review, we find insufficient evidence of such deliberation.  Agreement without substantive 
discussion among public body members or the lack of substantive discussion prior to a vote is 
insufficient to support the inference that those members deliberated outside of a noticed 
meeting.  See OML 2024-154 (explaining that swift unanimous agreement on a plan for handling 
matters brought before the public body, even without any discussion during the meeting, is 
insufficient to support a finding of prior deliberation); OML 2017-125; OML 2017-93; OML 
2013-128.  In the absence of specific evidence of deliberation outside of posted meetings 
regarding these matters, we do not find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law in these 
ways. 
 
II. The Council’s meeting notices were sufficiently specific. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notic
e of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Id.  The list of topics 
shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35.
6  When reviewing a meeting notice 
for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting notice 
standing alone.  See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155.  Rather, we review what was actually 
discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently specific to make the public 
aware of the discussion topics.  See OML 2015-101; OML 2015-21. 
 
The complaints allege that the Council posted insufficient meeting notices for its 
November 21, December 5, and December 12 meetings.  Specifically, the complaints allege that 
minutes for each of the respective three meetings show that the “Council failed to post Agenda 
and Meeting Notices with enough [specificity] for all [its] agenda item, as well as its attached 
Open Meeting Document [minutes of the preceding meeting].”  The complaints allege that the 
meeting notices do not include “specific details necessary or other identifying information about 
what occurred throughout the Meeting Minutes.”  We understand these allegations to assert that 
the Council’s meeting notices were inadequate because the notices did not include enough detail 
about the content of the preceding meetings’ minutes that were to be approved and/or because 
the minutes referenced in the meeting notices were themselves inadequate.   
 
The notice for the Council’s November 21 meeting included the topic “Minutes Of City 
Council Meeting November 14th, For Acceptance,” followed by a link to the draft November 14 
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website; https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law.  
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
meeting minutes.  The notice for the Council’s December 5 meeting included the topic “Minutes 
Of City Council Meeting July [sic] November 21st, For Acceptance,” followed by a link to the 
draft November 21 meeting minutes.  The notice for the Council’s December 12 meeting 
included the topic “Minutes Of Economic/Downtown Development SC December 5th; City 
Council Meeting December 5th, For Acceptance,” followed by links to both draft meeting 
minutes.  When a public body anticipates reviewing and approving meeting minutes during a 
meeting, the public body must identify on the meeting notice which minutes it plans to review, if 
known.  See OML 2023-124 (finding that notice topic “Approval of meeting minutes” was 
inadequate as it did not reasonably identify the minutes anticipated for approval); OML 2021-
127 (finding that notice topic “Review and approve if ready minutes from prior meeting” was 
sufficiently specific and adequately identified the minutes anticipated for approval); OML 2017-
92; OML 2013-199.  We have not required meeting notices to include details regarding the 
contents of the minutes to be reviewed, other than identifying the meeting dates.  Where each of 
the three meeting notices at issue in the complaints identified the specific meeting minutes to be 
reviewed and approved, we find that the notices were sufficiently specific in this regard and the 
Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law.   
 
III. The minutes of the Council’s November 14, November 21, and December 5 meetings 
fail to summarize public comment received during the meetings and are insufficient. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  One of the requirements of the Open Meeting Law that 
serves to eliminate such secrecy is the requirement that public bodies “create and maintain 
accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The 
minutes must set forth “the date, time and place [of the meeting], the members present or absent, 
a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
votes.”  Id.  
 
When reviewing meeting minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look 
for s
ubstantial compliance with the accuracy requirement.  See OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64.  
By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy 
so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred.  See OML 2018-151 (finding that minutes did not meet 
this standard where a 45-minute exchange between the public body and a member of the public 
was summarized in a single sentence); OML 2012-106.  Although a transcript is not required and 
minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented, minutes must include a 
summary of the discussions that took place during the meeting. See OML 2021-190; OML 2021-
137 (minutes were insufficient where they captured questions asked during a public hearing but 
only specified that the questions were responded to, without summarizing the responses); OML 
2019-136; OML 2013-16 (noting that minutes were insufficient where they did not summarize 
presentations made to the public body or remarks made by city councilors and members of the 
public); OML 2011-55.  Where a particular individual speaks at some length or is the only one to 
offer an argument for or against a proposal, that person and their comments should be identified 
in the minutes. See OML 2012-29; OML 2015-49. 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
 
The complaints allege that the minutes of the Council’s November 14, November 21, and 
December 5 meetings are insufficiently detailed insofar as they list the names of registered 
speakers and the agenda items on which they spoke, without including any summary of their 
comments.  Regarding the November 14 meeting minutes, for example, following a vote on a 
motion to request that the city manager contact the Lowell Regional Transit Authority to request 
a report detailing use of state funds, the minutes state “Registered speaker, Jonathan Grossman, 
addressed the Council.”  Following a vote on a motion to request that the city manager work with 
stakeholders to invite unhoused individuals to join the discussion regarding camping on public 
property, the minutes state “Registered speakers, Ron Peacetree. Dee Halzack, Marrissa Dupont 
and Jovanna Mason, addressed the Council.”  Although the minutes generally summarize and 
record discussion that ensued among Councilors following remarks from the public, the minutes 
of the three meetings only identify registered speakers and the agenda topics on which they 
spoke, without summarizing their specific comments.  
 
In general, the provisions of the Open Meeting Law are construed “liberally to reflect 
thei
r purpose of ‘eliminat[ing] much of the secrecy surrounding the deliberations and discussions 
on which public policy is based.’”  McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637, 641–42 (2008) 
(quoting Ghiglione, 376 Mass. at 72).  The Open Meeting Law does not require that public 
bodies accept public comment during their meetings.  See OML 2012-23.  Nonetheless, if public 
bodies choose to accept public comment then the public comment is part of the meeting and must 
be captured in the meeting minutes.  See OML 2023-56.  We reiterate that meeting minutes need 
not constitute a transcript of comments presented, and they need not reflect every remark or 
opinion conveyed during a public comment period.  See, e.g., OML 2019-136 (finding that the 
public body substantially complied with the Law’s accuracy requirement for meeting minutes 
when two members of the public spoke during a public comment period and the minutes 
captured some of the complainant’s comments but, according to the complainant, failed to 
capture at least ten points the complainant included in her remarks as well as comments made by 
another speaker); OML 2016-40 (explaining that minutes were substantially accurate when they 
included a concise summary of the comments of each of 36 speakers during a public comment 
period, although they did not capture every remark made by each speaker).  Here, the meeting 
minutes contain nothing more than a list of names of registered speakers who spoke on various 
topics, without any summary of their comments.  Therefore, the minutes fail to comply with the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law.  
  
Fina
lly, to the extent the complaints include additional allegations that the meeting 
minutes are generally insufficient beyond the concerns addressed above regarding comments 
from registered speakers, without identifying any particular deficiencies, we decline to review 
such allegations.
7  Allegations of Open Meeting Law violations must be made with a degree of 
 
7 For example, the second complaint alleges, regarding the minutes of the Council’s November 21 meeting, that the 
Council “failed to draft Meeting Minutes that accurately detailed the discussions on the subjects that included what 
dissenting public speakers spoke about. These Meeting Minutes failed to contain enough detail and accuracy so that 
a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of 
what occurred and failed to include dissenting or minority opinions. It was clear to the City Council that one or more 
members of the body and/or the public disagreed with the decision ultimately taken by the City Council, yet it failed 
to note the dissenting opposing viewpoints in the meeting minutes. The City Council did so despite these particular 
 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
specificity, as our office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized 
allegations.  See OML 2024-1; OML 2021-10; OML 2016-57.  We will not review the entirety 
of meetings that are each two to two-and-a-half hours long and compare them to meeting 
minutes that are seven to twelve pages in length in search of a deficiency.  See OML Declination 
6-7-24 (Westfield Gas and Electric Municipal Light Board); OML Declination 7-18-12 (Cotuit 
Board of Fire Commissioners).   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a posted meeting on or before November 20 regarding the issuance of a 
public statement, and by approving insufficient minutes of its November 14, November 21, and 
December 5 meetings.  We order the Council’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law and caution the Council that a determination by our office of a similar violation in 
the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  Additionally, 
we order the Council, within 45 days of the date of this letter, to amend the minutes of its 
November 14, November 21, and December 5 meetings to summarize public comment received 
during the meetings.  
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Laura Ortiz (via e-mail: ) 
 Lowell City Council, Daniel P. Rourke (via e- mail:
 drourke@lowellma.gov) 
 Michael Geary, Lowell City Clerk (via e-mail: mgeary@lowellma.gov) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
individuals spoke at some length or were the only one to offer an argument for or against a proposal and it failed to 
identify the speakers comments in the minutes.”   
