===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 30, 2013 
OML 2013-141 
Carrie Flood, Secretary 
Minuteman Regional Vocational Technical School Committee 
758 Marrett Road 
Lexington, MA 02421 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Ms. Flood: 
This office received two complaints from David Manjarrez, dated December 3, 2012 and 
February 12, 2013, respectively, alleging that the Minuteman Regional Vocational Technical 
School District Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Committee on or about September 13, 
20121 and January 17, 2013, and the Committee responded to the original complaints by letters 
dated October 4, 2012 and February 6, 2013, respectively. 
In his December 3, 2012 complaint, Mr. Manjarrez alleges that the Committee, Chair 
Alice DeLuca, and Vice-Chair Jeffrey Stulin violated the Open Meeting Law because: (1) the 
Committee's notice for its August 27, 2012 meeting failed to include any mention that the 
Committee would convene in open session before entering into executive session; (2) during the 
August 27, 2012 executive session, the Committee created a subcommittee, which then convened 
in executive session on August 30, 2012 and August 31, 2012 for an improper purpose, and 
Chair Alice DeLuca precluded Mr. Manjarrez (who is a member of the Committee) from 
attending these executive sessions; and (3) during its September 5, 2012 executive session, the 
Committee discussed and took action on a topic that was improper for executive session.2 In his 
February 12, 2013 complaint, Mr. Manjarrez alleges that during its December 18, 2012 and 
January 8, 2013 meetings, the Committee again discussed topics that were improper for 
executive session. And that the notices for these meetings failed to list executive session topics 
that were reasonably anticipated by the chair, namely a forensic audit report. 
' We note that this complaint was not filed on the Open Meeting Law complaint form. See 940 CMR 29.05(1) ("All 
complaints shall be in writing, using the form approved by the Attorney General and available on the Attorney 
General's website.") However, because the Committee treated it as a complaint and responded accordingly, we will 
review it as such. 
2 Mr. Manjarrez additionally alleges that the Committee authorized an expenditure in executive session, in violation 
of the Open Meeting Law. Based upon our review, we determined that this topic was not discussed in executive 
session, and therefore we find no violation. 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
C 
===PAGE 2===
We reviewed the original complaints; your responses to the complaints, on behalf of the 
Committee; and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review. In addition, we 
reviewed the notices and open and executive session minutes from the Committee's meetings 
held on August 27, 2012, September 5, 2012, December 18, 2012 and January 8, 2013. We also 
reviewed the notices and open and executive session minutes from the ES Recommendations 
Subcommittee meetings held on August 30, 2012 and August 31, 2012. Finally, we spoke by 
telephone with Chair Alice DeLuca. 
Following our review, we find that the discussions of both the Committee and 
Subcommittee generally fit within the parameters of executive session Puipose 1; that the Chair 
had discretion to exclude the complainant from the Subcommittee executive sessions; and that 
the Committee's December 18, 2012 and January 8, 2013 meeting notices were sufficient. 
However, the Committee and the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
provide written notice to the individual being discussed 48 hours prior to convening certain 
executive sessions under Purpose 1, and the Committee failed to include all reasonably 
anticipated topics in the notice for its August 27, 2012 meeting. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. Because the 
Committee has not released the executive session minutes of the meetings discussed, we do not 
recount their content in full. However, we offer a general summary of the discussions below. 
On August 20, 2012, the Committee received a complaint against the School 
Superintendent, Dr. Edward Bouquillon, concerning an incident involving the School's 
procurement practices and procedures. On August 23, 2013, Chair DeLuca sent written notice to 
Dr. Bouqillon of an upcoming executive session scheduled for August 27, 2012 to discuss the 
complaint against him. 
On August 27, 2012, the Committee convened a meeting to discuss, in part, this 
complaint. The meeting notice, posted on August 24, 2012, listed the following topic for 
discussion: "Executive session for the purpose of considering complaints or charges against a 
public officer, employee, staff member, or individual (Exemption #1 of OML)." The Committee 
unanimously approved by roll call vote a motion to enter into executive session under Purpose 1, 
and announced that it would not return to open session. During the executive session, the 
Committee briefly discussed the complaint against Dr. Bouquillon and permitted Dr. Bouquillon 
to summarize his written response to the complaint, which was distributed to the Committee at 
the meeting. Dr. Bouquillon then agreed to leave the meeting upon the Committee's request to 
permit the Committee to continue its discussions. The Committee decided that, based on the 
complaint's allegations, a third party should conduct an investigation and report its findings to 
the Committee. In order to facilitate the investigation, the Committee unanimously voted to 
create the ES Recommendation Subcommittee, consisting of Chair DeLuca and Committee 
members Carrie Flood and Laura Morrissette (the "Subcommittee"), to develop a list of potential 
investigators and the investigator's scope of work, and to present recommendations to the full 
Committee. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The Committee did not subsequently announce the formation of this Subcommittee in 
open session, but it properly posted notice of the Subcommittee's meetings held on August 30, 
2012 and August 31, 2012. During these two meetings, the Subcommittee approved by roll call 
vote a motion to enter executive session under Purpose 1 and discussed potential third parties to 
hire for the investigation, and a draft Request for Proposal (RFP) for an independent forensic 
audit to be presented to the Committee for approval. While the Committee verbally notified Dr. 
Bouquillon about these closed door discussions, it did not provide him with written notice, and 
Dr. Bouqillon was not present during either executive session. 
The Committee convened again on September 5, 2012, December 12, 2012, and January 
3, 2013. The properly posted meeting notices stated that the Committee would convene under 
Purpose 1 during each of these meetings. During each open session, the Committee approved by 
roll call vote a motion to enter into executive session under Purpose 1. During the September 5, 
2012 executive session, the Committee discussed Committee attorney Mary Joann Reedy's 
contact with potential auditors and the draft RFP. While the Committee verbally notified Dr. 
Bouquillon about this closed door discussion, it did not provide him with written notice, and Dr. 
Bouquillon was not present for this executive session. During its December 18, 2012 and 
January 8, 2013 executive sessions, the Committee discussed the results of the forensic audit 
report and the Committee's next steps following the report. Dr. Bouquillon was present for both 
of these executive session discussions. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, provided 
that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for the executive 
session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3). 
One permissible reason for executive session is Purpose 1, "[t]o discuss the reputation, 
character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an 
individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, 
a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The individual 
to be discussed in such an executive session must be notified in writing by the public body at 
least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session. Id The individual must also be afforded 
the right to be present during deliberations that involve that individual, the right to speak on his 
or her own behalf, the right to have counsel present to advise but not participate, and the right to 
have an independent record of the meeting made at the individual's own expense. Id 
3 At one point during the January 8, 2013 executive session, a Committee member raised the issue of breach of 
confidentiality. We commend Chair DeLuca for limiting this discussion and guiding the Committee to continue 
discussing only those topics for which the Committee properly convened in executive session. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
The Committee's and the Subcommittee's discussions in each of the executive sessions 
generally fit within the parameters of executive session Purpose 1 4 The discussions concerned a 
complaint against Dr. Bouquillon, which alleged his failure to follow procurement procedures. 
While the allegation was related to an aspect of his job performance, we do not find any evidence 
that the Committee engaged in a closed door discussion about Dr. Bouquillon's professional 
competence that was not directly related to the complaint.3 See OML 2012-13. Furthermore, the 
Committee's discussions surrounding the RFP for a forensic audit and the audit results were 
appropriate under executive session Purpose 1, as they related to investigating and resolving this 
complaint against a public officer. Accordingly, the August 27, 2012; August 30, 2012; August 
31, 2012; September 5, 2012; December 18, 2012; and January 8, 2013 executive session 
discussions about the complaint against Dr. Bouquillon were appropriate under Purpose 1. See 
OML 2012-43. 
The Committee generally followed the requisite procedures for entering executive session 
pursuant to Purpose 1, including providing Dr. Bouquillon with 48 hour written notice for most 
of the meetings; however, it did not provide him with such notice prior to the Subcommittee's 
August 30, 2012 and August 31, 2012 meetings, or the Committee's September 5, 2012 
meeting.6 
Chair DeLuca did not violate the Open Meeting Law, however, by excluding the 
complainant from the Subcommittee's executive sessions because the complainant was not a 
member of the Subcommittee. Aside from an individual's right to participate in a discussion 
about that individual under Purpose 1, public attendance and participation during an executive 
session is entirely within the chair's discretion. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f); OML 2012-53. Chair 
DeLuca was also mindful that a quorum of the full Committee should not participate in a 
Subcommittee meeting without posting notice of a joint meeting. See OML 2012-6. 
Additionally, the Committee's December 18, 2012 and January 8, 2013 meeting notices 
were sufficient because they stated the reasons for the anticipated executive sessions. For an 
executive session topic, in both the notice and at the meeting itself, the chair must "state the 
purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). 
The topic did not need to include details beyond the stated purpose, such as the name of the 
individual to be discussed or the forensic audit report, if it believed that doing so would 
compromise the purpose for the executive session, namely protecting the privacy of that 
individual. OML 2013-20; OML 2011-32. 
However, the Committee's August 27, 2012 meeting notice did not offer the public a 
complete understanding of the topics that the chair reasonably anticipated would be discussed at 
4 We note that the while the Subcommittee meetings were properly posted, the Committee did not disclose the 
formation of the Subcommittee during any open session, which essentially prevented the public from knowing about 
its existence unless one checked the notice postings regularly. 
5 The Committee engaged in an open session discussion about Dr. Bouquillon's evaluation during its October 16, 
2012 meeting. 
6 Additionally, Dr. Bouquillon had the right to be present during the entire executive session discussion regarding 
him, thus it was improper for the Committee to ask him to leave before the August 27, 2012 executive session 
discussion concluded. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
that meeting. When the only business to be discussed during an open session is the procedural 
requirements for entering executive session, public bodies should list "open session" on the 
meeting notice, in addition to the executive session topics, to inform members of the public that 
the public body will, in fact, hold an open meeting that they are permitted to attend.7 See OML 
2013-85; OML 2013-9. Because it did not include this information, the Committee's August 27, 
2012 meeting notice was not sufficiently detailed to comply with the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the discussions of both the Committee and 
Subcommittee generally fit within the parameters of executive session Purpose 1; that the Chair 
had discretion to exclude the complainant from the Subcommittee executive sessions; and that 
the Committee's December 18, 2012 and January 8, 2013 meeting notices were sufficient. 
However, the Committee and the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
provide written notice to the individual being discussed 48 hours prior to convening certain 
executive sessions under Purpose 1, and the Committee failed to include all reasonably 
anticipated topics in the notice for its August 27, 2012 meeting. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
cc: David Manjarrez 
Nancy Campany, Esq. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
7 This requirement is only applicable to the situation where there are no anticipated topics for discussion during an 
open session other than the procedural requirements for convening an executive session. Where a public body 
anticipates discussing specific topics during an open session meeting, it is not required to additionally list "open 
session" as a topic. See Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Guide, p. 6. 
5 