===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
April 14,2014 
OML 2014-36 
Robert O'Keefe 
Chair 
Winchendon Board of Selectmen 
109 Front St. 
Winchendon, MA 01475 
Re: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair O'Keefe: 
This office received an Open Meeting Law complaint from Michael Young and Anthony 
George, dated October 11, 2013, alleging that the Winchendon Board of Selectmen (the 
"Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint specifically 
alleges that the Board failed to provide sufficient detail in the notice for its June 17, 2013 
meeting and that, during the meeting, the Board entered into executive session for an improper 
purpose. The complainants filed separate complaints with the Board on or about September 16, 
2013.1 The Board responded to the two complaints in separate letters, both dated September 26, 
2013. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to provide sufficient specificity in the notice for its June 17, 2013 meeting; however, the Board 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law by entering into executive session on that date. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the two September 16, 2013 complaints filed with the 
Board; the Board's September 26, 2013 responses; and the October 11, 2013 complaint filed 
with this office. Additionally, we reviewed the notice and open and executive session minutes of 
the Board's June 17, 2013 meeting. We also reviewed an August 22, 2013 letter from Inspector 
General Glenn Cunha addressed to the Board; a September 11, 2013 letter from Town Counsel 
1 To be timely, a complaint must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the alleged violation, or if the 
alleged violation could not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then within 30 days of the date it 
should reasonably have been discovered. 940 CMR 29.05(3). Here, the complaints are timely because they were 
filed with the Board within 30 days of an August 22, 2013 letter to the Board from the Office of the Inspector 
General, disclosing facts about the executive session that allegedly constituted a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
===PAGE 2===
to the Inspector General; and a December 24, 2013 letter from the Inspector General addressed to 
the Board. Finally, we reviewed the Town's January 16, 2013 Request for Proposals (the 
"RFP"), Winchendon Court, LLC's response to the RFP, and the June 17, 2013 Purchase and 
Sale Agreement between the Town and Winchendon Court, LLC. 
FACTS 
On January 16, 2013, the Board issued an RFP pursuant to G.L. c. 30B, § 16, for 
acquisition of a suitable site for a proposed police station. The RFP provided the general 
conditions and requirements for proposals, and stated that the "successful Offeror must enter into 
a purchase and sale agreement with the Town substantially on the same terms as the Purchase 
and Sale Agreement attached to the [RFP]." The Town received two timely responses to the 
RFP, and both were publicly opened on March 4, 2013. After the Town's review of the 
proposals and analysis provided by an architectural firm retained to design the building, the 
Police Station RFP02013-04 Review Committee (the "Committee") declared a winning bidder in 
an open meeting on April 25, 2013. The Committee found that Winchendon Court, LLC's 
proposal was in the best interests of the Town, taking into consideration the evaluation criteria 
contained in the RFP and the purchase price. In its in response to the complaints, the Board 
writes that "because of the nature of the RFP and the unique qualities of each proposal, the 
template purchase and sale agreement attached to the RFP was intended to provide only the basic 
terms and framework for the acquisition of the property. Other significant, material terms of the 
purchase and sale agreement remained to be negotiated." 
The notice for the Board's June 17, 2013 meeting included the following topic: 
Executive Session: 
Exemption No. 2 to discuss strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with 
non-union personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract 
negotiations with non-union personnel and under Exemption No. 6 to consider the 
purchase, exchange, lease, or value of real property, if the Chair declares that an 
open session may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the 
public body. 
During the meeting, the Board entered into executive session for the noticed purposes. 
Once in executive session, the Board met with the Town Manager to discuss the purchase and 
sale agreement for the property owned by Winchendon Court, LLC.3 The Town Manager 
2 It is not clear from the minutes whether the Chair stated that the Board would return to open session after the 
executive session. We remind the Board that prior to entering into executive session, "the chair shall publicly 
announce whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(b)(4). 
3 The executive session minutes from the Board's June 17, 2013 meeting were approved on July 8, 2013, and 
publicly released on September 23, 2013. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
communicated to the Board that the purchase and sale agreement had been negotiated by Town 
Counsel and attorneys representing Winchendon Court, LLC but still needed to be approved by 
the Board. The Town Manager then updated the Board on the issues that had been at the center 
of the negotiations between the parties, including issues related to testing for hazardous material 
at the property; testing to determine whether there was asbestos on the piping at the boiler in the 
basement; and an easement that the property owner wanted to retain. The Town Manager also 
identified an issue that had not been resolved in the negotiations regarding a dumpster that could 
have blocked access to the building.4 The Town Manager then explained to the Board that it 
could approve and execute the purchase and sale agreement at that meeting or wait until the 
dumpster issue was resolved. The Town Manager recommended that executing the agreement 
that night would give the Board more leverage in the continuing negotiations than if the Board 
waited. The Board then reviewed the purchase and sale agreement and asked the Town Manager 
questions about specific sections. The Town Manager and the Board also discussed whether to 
proceed with the agreement given concerns raised by the Office of the Inspector General. 
Following its discussion, the Board closed the executive session and returned to open 
session to approve the purchase and sale agreement. The Board and Winchendon Court, LLC 
signed a First Amendment to Purchase and Sale Agreement on August 29, 2013 and a Second 
Amendment to Purchase and Sale Agreement on September 11, 2013. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Board Failed to Identify in the Notice for its June 17, 2013 Meeting the 
Specific Property it Planned to Discuss in Executive Session. 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to list topics in the notice for its June 17, 
2013 meeting with sufficient specificity. The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies 
post notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The list of topics 
shall have "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2013-12; OML 2012-90.5 Executive session topics 
must include as much detail as possible without compromising the purpose for which the 
executive session was called. District Attorney for N. Dist. v. School Comm. of Wayland, 455 
Mass. 561, 567 (2009) ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is 
necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public 
that the school committee would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would 
know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper."); see G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b), 21(b)(3); 
940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
4 It is not evident whether the dumpster was on the subject property or on an adjacent property also owned by the 
seller, but the dumpster was clearly a point of discussion between the parties. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Here, the Board cited "Exemption No. 6 to consider the purchase, exchange, lease, or 
value of real property" in the notice for its June 17, 2013 meeting. We have said in prior 
determinations that, when planning to discuss a specific piece of property, public bodies should 
include sufficient information in the meeting notice to identify the property. See OML 2013-39; 
OML 2012-52. Because the property the Board was considering purchasing was already public 
knowledge, having been disclosed during the RFP process, the Board should have identified the 
specific property in the notice as doing so would not have undermined the purpose for the 
executive session. See OML 2012-52. Furthermore, noting the specific property in the notice 
would have alerted the public to the fact that the Board was considering taking action on this 
matter, which is precisely what occurred when the Board approved the purchase and sale 
agreement in open session at the meeting. For these reasons, we find that the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law by failing to identify in the notice for its November 17, 2013 meeting the 
specific property it planned to discuss in executive session. 
II. The Board Entered into Executive Session for a Proper Purpose during its June 
17. 2013 Meeting. 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by entering into executive 
session during its June 17, 2013 meeting. A public body may enter into executive session for 
any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One such purpose is Purpose 6, "[t]o 
consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body." G.L. c. 
30A,§ 21(a)(6). 
The complaint alleges that the executive session was improper because, as the price of 
the property had already been determined, open session discussion of the purchase and sale 
agreement would not have had a detrimental effect on the Board's negotiating position. In a 
prior decision, our office determined that it was improper for a public body to utilize executive 
session Purpose 6 to discuss in private whether or not to proceed with a purchase where the price 
had already been determined. OML 2012-52. There, however, the price had been settled and 
there were no additional terms under consideration. The discussion focused largely on the use of 
the property once the purchase was completed. Id. This office acknowledges that price is but 
one of many factors that may be considered by a public body in the course of such transactions 
and that a public body may still have a negotiating position to protect even where the price of a 
real estate purchase has already been decided. 
Here, the Board entered into executive session under Purpose 6 after the Chair's 
declaration that holding the discussion in open session would have a detrimental effect on the 
Board's negotiating position. In executive session, the Board discussed the status of its 
negotiations with the seller over the terms of the purchase and sale agreement. Although the 
Board had accepted Winchendon Court, LLC's proposal following a procurement process, the 
Board had not yet executed a final purchase and sale agreement. Winchendon Court, LLC 
4 
===PAGE 5===
provided a purchase and sale agreement as part of its proposal, but the Board subsequently 
negotiated modifications.6 
At the time the meeting occurred, the Board remained engaged in negotiations over the 
exact terms of the purchase and sale agreement, which, once executed, would become the 
agreement between the parties and commit the Town to purchasing the property. Although price 
was not a term the Board discussed, there were a number of matters the Board considered, 
including an issue related to testing for hazardous material at the property; testing to determine 
whether there was asbestos on the piping at the boiler in the basement; and an easement that the 
property owner wanted to retain. The Town Manager also identified an unresolved issue 
regarding a dumpster that could have blocked access to the building. Public discussion of these 
conditions may have been detrimental to the Board's negotiating position with the seller as it 
n 
considered the terms of the purchase and sale agreement. Following the Town Manager's 
update to the Board regarding issues with the Purchase and Sale Agreement, the Board discussed 
whether to proceed with adopting and executing the Agreement or whether to return to 
Winchendon Court LLC to resolve the outstanding issues. The Board opted to accept and 
execute the Purchase and Sale Agreement. Because the Board considered issues that may have 
affected the terms of its Purchase and Sale Agreement, we find that the Board did have a 
negotiating position to protect as of the June 17, 2013 meeting, and its use of executive session 
Purpose 6 during that meeting was therefore permissible. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to provide sufficient 
specificity in the meeting notice for its June 17, 2013 meeting. We find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law by entering into executive session on that date. We order the 
Board's immediate and future compliance, and caution the Board that a similar future violation 
may be considered evidence of an intentional violation of the Law. 
6 We make no findings regarding the appropriateness of the Board's discussion under the procurement law, G.L. c. 
SOB. 
7 Additionally, the Board discussed whether to proceed with the purchase and sale agreement in light of the 
Inspector General's concerns. While this portion of the discussion strikes us as less connected to the Board's 
negotiating position, we note that the discussion may have been appropriate under another executive session 
purpose, such as those concerning complaints against public officers or imminently threatened litigation. See G.L. 
c.30A,§§ 21(a)(1), 21(a)(3). 
5 
===PAGE 6===
We now consider this matter closed. Please contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Michael Young 
Anthony George 
John W. Giorgio, Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order, 
6 