===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 12, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 228 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Norman Czech 
Chair, Three Rivers Fire District Prudential Committee  
normchaz@hotmail.com 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Czech: 
 
This office received three complaints from Richard Pobieglo, a member of the Three 
Rivers Fire District Prudential Committee (the “Committee”), on June 27, 2022.
1 The complaints 
allege that the Committee—and specifically Committee members Stephen Chiacchia2 and 
Norman Czech, as well as District Clerk David Basler—violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Committee on or about May 6. 
Stephen Chiacchia, Norman Czech, and David Basler each responded by letters dated May 17 
and 18. We understand the complaints, taken together, to allege that 1) the Committee failed to 
post notice of a May 2 meeting to the Town’s official notice posting location; 2) the Committee 
failed to post notice of the May 2 meeting 48 hours in advance of the meeting; and 3) Stephen 
Chiacchia, Norman Czech, and David Basler attended the May 2 meeting.
3,4 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to post notice of its May 2 meeting at the Town’s official notice posting location and by 
failing to post timely notice for its May 2 meeting. In reaching this determination, we reviewed 
the Open Meeting Law complaints, the responses to the complaints, the request for further 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 Stephen Chiacchia no longer serves on the Committee. 
3 The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and individuals acting as public body members. See  G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. Therefore, we decline to review any allegation that David Basler, the District Clerk, violated the 
Open Meeting Law.  
4 The complaints also allege that Chair Chiacchia sent an email from his spouse’s email account. Even if true, this 
would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law; therefore, we decline to review this allegation.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
review, the notice for and minutes of the Committee’s May 2 meeting, and the Complainant’s 
April 28 letter to the editor published in The Journal Register. We also communicated with Chair 
Czech by email.5 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Three Rivers Fire District (the “District”) serves 
the Village of Three Rivers within the Town of Palmer. The District was scheduled to hold its 
Annual District Meeting on Tuesday, May 3 at 7:00 p.m., at which time voters would be asked to 
vote on the District’s 2022-2023 budget. On Thursday, April 28, a local newspaper, The Journal 
Register, published a letter to the editor written by the Complainant. The Complainant’s letter, in 
which he identified himself as a member of the Committee, stated that the proposed District 
budget represented an increase of $45,900 in order to hire a new full-time firefighter. The letter 
urged residents to vote against hiring a new full-time firefighter. Below the letter was an editor’s 
note which stated that the budget included $45,000 for a full-time firefighter, but that the 
proposed budget only represented an increase of $6,614 overall. 
 
Upon reading the Complainant’s letter to the editor, then-chair Stephen Chiacchia felt he 
had to take action by first verifying that the amounts listed in the warrant were accurate. To this 
end, Chair Chiacchia reached out to the chair of the Palmer Finance Committee. The chairs 
agreed to meet the morning of Sunday, May 1, to review the budget and ensure that the warrant 
for the May 3 District Meeting was accurate. Knowing that he would meet with the Finance 
Committee chair, Chair Chiacchia also decided that he should schedule a meeting with the 
Committee. Chair Chiacchia explains in his response to the complaint, that he anticipated that the 
Committee would meet so that he could inform his fellow members of whatever he learned 
during his discussion with the Finance Committee chair, and so that the Committee could discuss 
the Complainant’s letter to the editor and decide whether the District Meeting needed to be 
canceled.  
 
On Friday, April 29, at approximately 7:00 p.m., Chair Chiacchia posted notice for a 
Committee meeting to be held on Monday, May 2 at 9:00 a.m. Notice was posted at the office of 
the Three Rivers Water Department, the Three Rivers Fire Department, and the Three Rivers 
Post Office. Notice was not posted at the Palmer Town Building located at 4417 Main Street. 
The Town of Palmer has not adopted an alternative posting method. The notice included the 
following topic: “Discuss public comments made by a Prudential Committee member and 
member of the Finance Committee regarding the Annual Meeting.” 
 
During Chair Chiacchia’s May 1 meeting with the Finance Committee chair, the chairs 
confirmed that the amounts listed in the warrant were correct and that the budget did not include 
a line item for a new full-time firefighter.  
 
The Committee met on May 2 as scheduled. During the meeting the Committee discussed 
and agreed that the warrant for the May 3 District Meeting accurately reflected the proposed 
District budget and that there was no need to cancel the District Meeting. Chair Chiacchia also 
 
5 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
clarified that the Complainant’s letter to the editor expressed the Complainant’s opinions and not 
the opinions of the Committee.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “[e]xcept in an emergency, in addition to any notice 
otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours 
prior to such meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
For meetings of local public bodies, “notice shall be filed with the municipal clerk and posted in 
a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on the municipal building in which 
the clerk’s office is located,” unless the municipality has adopted the alternative method of 
posting notice to a website. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c); 940 CMR 29.03(2). 
 
The Open Meeting Law defines an emergency as “a sudden, generally unexpected 
occurr
ence or set of circumstances demanding immediate action.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18; 940 CMR 
29.02. The burden of justifying the need for an emergency meeting falls to the public body. See 
OML 2020-123. Emergency meetings are reserved for circumstances that are unanticipated and 
require an immediate response, that is, action that could not wait for notice of a meeting to be 
posted 48 hours in advance. See OML 2021-119; OML 2017-131; OML 2016-70; OML 2011-
45.6  
 
First, we consider whether the Committee proper
 ly posted notice for its May 2 meeting to 
the Town’s official notice posting location. The complaint alleges that the notice for the 
Committee’s May 2 meeting was not properly posted because it was not posted at the Palmer 
Town Building or on the Town’s website. The Town of Palmer has not adopted its website as the 
official method of posting notice in accordance with 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b); therefore, the official 
notice posting location for all Palmer public bodies, including the Committee, is in or on the 
Palmer Town Building located at 4417 Main Street. Although public bodies are welcome to post 
notice of their meetings in additional locations if they choose, a municipality may only have one 
official notice posting location for purposes of complying with the Open Meeting Law. See 940 
CMR 29.03(2)(c); OML 2021-94; OML 2020-20. Here, the Committee posted notice of its May 
2 meeting at several locations but not at the Palmer Town Building. Therefore, we find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post notice of its May 2 meeting at the 
Town’s official notice posting location.  
 
Next, w
e consider whether, had the Committee posted notice to the official notice posting 
location, an emergency existed that excused the Committee from posting notice 48 hours, 
excluding weekends and holidays, in advance of the May 2 meeting. The Committee asserts that 
the Complainant’s April 28 letter to the editor constituted an emergency and therefore the 
Committee was not required to post notice 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in 
advance of the May 2 meeting. We disagree. Although the Complainant’s letter to the editor may 
have been sudden and unexpected, we find that it did not require immediate action. Indeed, when 
the Committee met on May 2 it took no action at all. Additionally, by the time the Committee 
met on May 2, Chair Chiacchia knew that the amounts listed in the warrant were accurate, thus 
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
negating any potential need to cancel the May 3 District Meeting. These facts demonstrate that as 
of May 2 there was no emergency requiring immediate action. For these reasons, we find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by holding a meeting on May 2 for which timely 
notice was not posted. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to post notice of its May 2 meeting at the Town’s official notice posting location and 
by failing to post timely notice for its May 2 meeting. We order the Committee’s immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar future violations could 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. Because the May 3 District Meeting that was 
the subject of the May 2 meeting has already occurred, we do not order any further remedial 
action.   
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,     
  
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Richard Pobieglo ( via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
