===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
May 1,2019 
OML 2019-44
Frank K. Duffy, Jr., Esq.
Town of Falmouth 
Office of Town Counsel 
157 Locust Street 
Falmouth, MA 02540-2658
RE: Open  Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Duffy:
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty, dated March 22, alleging that the 
Falmouth Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 12; and you responded, 
on behalf of the Board, by letter dated March 1. The complaint alleges that i) the notices for the 
Board’s January 14, January 28, and February 11 meetings lacked sufficient detail because they 
did not contain the meeting location address; and ii) the Board failed to periodically review 
executive session minutes to determine whether there is a continued purpose for nondisclosure.
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed 
with our office requesting further review, and the notices and open session minutes of Board 
meetings held on January 14, January 28, February 11, and March 11. We find that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently specific meeting notice that did not 
include the address for Town Hall, but that the violation was de minimis.
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must be 
printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the 
meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. Icf
O
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2019.

===PAGE 2===
The complaint alleges that the notices were insufficiently specific because they failed to 
provide the address of the meeting location. The notices indicated that the January 14, January 
28, and February 11 meetings were to be held in the Selectmen’s Meeting Room in Town Hall. 
The Board stated in its response that the location of Town Hall is common knowledge. 
Nonetheless, a public body should provide the street address of a meeting location, where 
possible. See OML 2016-3 8.2 Because members of the public unfamiliar with the location of 
the Town Hall may wish to attend the meeting, failure to include the street address on the notice 
was a technical violation of the Open Meeting Law. However, the complaint does not allege that 
any member of the public was actually mislead or confused by the meeting notice at issue; 
therefore, any error was harmless. See OML 2017-33; OML 2016-77. It is our understanding 
that the Board now includes the address of Town Hall on its notices and we commend the Board 
for taking such prompt remedial action in response to the complaint.
The complaint also alleges that the Board failed to periodically review its executive 
session meeting minutes to determine whether there is a continued purpose for nondisclosure. 
Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as publication 
may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents 
or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or an 
exemption to the public records law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, from 
disclosure. See id. Public bodies have an obligation to review the minutes of executive sessions 
at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of minutes is warranted, and to 
announce that determination at the next meeting following its review. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). 
Although “reasonable interval” is not defined by the law, our office has found a quarterly review 
or a review every six months to be appropriate. See OML 2017-104; OML 2015-166; OML 
2013-180.
The complaint does not identify any specific executive session minutes that have not 
been reviewed by the Board and our office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based 
on generalized allegations. See OML 2012-106. The Board states that its practice is to 
periodically review executive session minutes. After a cursory review of the Board’s minutes for 
the last two years, we credit the Board’s statement and find that the Board periodically reviewed 
its executive session minutes. Moreover, in response to the complaint, the Board reviewed and 
released several sets of executive session minutes at its March 11 meeting.
We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and 
we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Ronald Beaty
Falmouth Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
3
