===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACI-IUSETTS 
OFFICE OF TI-IE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
October 16, 2012 
OML 2012 - 101 
Kenneth J. Hull 
Assessor 
Orleans Board of Assessors 
19 School Road 
Orleans, MA 02653 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Hull: 
This office received a complaint from Robert Osterberg, dated March 29, 2012, alleging 
that the Orleans Board of Assessors (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint alleges that 1) the Board refuses to identify in its meeting notices the 
specific abatement applications to be discussed during a meeting, and unreasonably minimizes 
notice to the public by listing abatements as a generic agenda item; 2) the Board closes the 
review of abatement applications to the public; 3) Board meeting minutes do not contain a 
summary of the discussions or list of the documents and other exhibits used in its meetings; and 
4) the Board does not maintain as a public record the notes, recordings and other materials used 
in preparation of the minutes. As an example of these violations, the complainant specifically 
identified the Board's January 17, 2012 meeting. The complaint was filed with the Board on 
January 26, 2012. The Board responded by letter on February 8, 2012. 
To begin with, we note that we do not review general allegations of wrongdoing. $ee 
OML Declination 3-20-12 (stating that this office "will not conduct broad audits of public bodies 
based on generalized allegations"). 1  Rather, complainants must cite specific allegations of Open 
Meeting Law violations that occur at identified meetings. Here, therefore, we review only Mr. 
Osterberg's allegations with respect to the one specific example he cited, the January 17, 2012 
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
1 
===PAGE 2===
meeting. Following our review of the materials related to that meeting, we find that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include a sufficiently detailed summary of its 
discussions in its meeting minutes. However, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
by considering abatement applications in executive session, or by listing a general topic in its 
meeting notice instead of listing specific applicants. We make no finding regarding whether the 
Board has generally failed to maintain notes, recordings and other materials used in preparation 
of the minutes. While the Open Meeting Law states that "the notes, recordings or other materials 
used in the preparation" of minutes of any open meeting shall be public records in their entirety, 
the Supervisor of Public Records within the Secretary of the Commonwealth's Public Records 
Division is the authority that oversees municipal records retention. $ee G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e). 
We therefore decline to review these allegations, and refer the complainant to the Records 
Management Unit within the Office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth for any questions 
about retention of these documents.2  
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the January 26, 2012 complaint; the Board's 
February 8, 2012 response, including a letter from Town Counsel Michael D. Ford, dated 
February 7, 2012; and the March 29, 2012 complaint filed with our office. We also reviewed an 
April 10, 2012 letter from Mr. Osterberg addressed to our office, which forwarded an April 6, 
2012 letter from the Supervisor of Public Records. We reviewed an April 11, 2012 letter from 
Assessor Kenneth Hu11,3  which included copies of the notice and minutes of the Board's January 
17, 2012 meeting. Finally, we reviewed the notice and minutes of the Board's February 7, 2012 
meeting. 
FACTS 
The Board is three-member public body, with an administrative staff that includes an 
assessor. The notice for the Board's January 17, 2012 meeting listed four topics under the 
category of "New Business": "Review Real Estate and Personal Property Abatements;" "MV & 
Boat Abatements;" "Exemptions & Deferrals;" and "Commitments." The January 17, 2012 
meeting was held entirely in open session, and lasted approximately 2 1/2 hours. The minutes of 
this meeting include 19 abatement decisions. Each decision listed includes the address of the 
2  In an appeal to the Supervisor of Public Records sent December 16, 2011, and renewed on March 9, 2012, Mr. 
Osterberg requests a copy of an abatement application that was used by the Board in open session on January 5, 
2011. In an April 6, 2012 letter to Mr. Osterberg, the Supervisor wrote that because an "issue raised within your 
reconsideration request directly relates to an interpretation of the Open Meeting Law, I will refer this matter to the 
[Attorney General's Office] for further consideration." Because that issue was not specifically raised in Mr. 
Osterberg's January 26, 2012 complaint filed with the Board, we do not address it here. Mr. Osterberg may file an 
Open Meeting Law complaint with the Board regarding his request for the abatement application that was used by 
the Board in open session on January 5, 2011. While this complaint would normally be untimely, because the 
Supervisor of Public Records referred Mr. Osterberg's request for documents to our office, we will review such a 
complaint if it is filed within thirty (30) days of the date of this letter. That complaint must be filed with the Board 
in accordance with G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). While we do not decide the issue here, we do note that an abatement 
application is a confidential document protected by Massachusetts law. See G.L. c. 59, § 60. Arguably, therefore, 
even if such a document is used by a public body during an open meeting, that body may not be permitted to breach 
its confidentiality by providing the application to a member of the public upon request. 
3  For purposes of clarity in the letter, we will refer to you in the third person. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
property, whether an abatement was granted, the amount of the abatement if granted, and the 
vote (unanimous in all 19 decisions). The Board approved the minutes at its January 25, 2012 
meeting. 
The complaint identified the Board's January 17, 2012 meeting as an example of the 
Board's alleged violations. In response to the complaint, the Board established a new set of 
procedures for noticing and reviewing tax abatement and exemption applications. The Board 
implemented these new procedures at its February 7, 2012 meeting. The notice for the Board's 
February 7, 2012 meeting listed five topics for discussion, including "Real Estate and Personal 
Property Abatements" and "EXECUTIVE SESSION AS NEEDED TO REVIEW FOLLOWING 
ABATEMENTS" (emphasis in original). The notice also listed 23 specific abatement 
applications, including the names and addresses of the applicants. During the meeting, the Board 
discussed several reports on the status of abatement requests, approved the minutes of the 
Board's January 25, 2012 meeting, and then entered into executive session. The open session 
minutes read, "Chairman Tim Brady motion and Cindy Eager second to move to Executive 
Session to comply with Chapter 59 Section 60, discussion of abatements, and not return to open 
session. Unanimous." The Board's executive session minutes list 17 abatements decisions, and 
include the property address, the last name of the applicant, and the decision of the Board 
whether to grant, deny, or take other action regarding the application. The minutes of the 
Board's February 7, 2012 executive session have been approved by the Board, but not yet 
publicly released. 
DISCUSSION 
The complaint raises a number of questions about the appropriate procedures for boards 
of assessors when considering applications for tax abatement. We address each issue in turn. 
1. The Board's Meeting Notices Complied with the Requirements of the Open Meeting 
Law. 
A public body must post notice of every meeting, including "the date, time and place of such 
meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies must list anticipated discussion topics in their 
meeting notices with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a topic to include 
sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2011-44. The 
Board's January 17, 2012 notice listed broad topics regarding the categories of abatements to be 
discussed. Applications for tax abatement or exemption are confidential under G.L. c. 59, § 60. 
Although certain information about the application, such as the name or title in which the tax 
stands assessed, must be made public once an abatement or exemption has been granted, the 
Board is not required to release that information before that time. See G.L. c. 59, § 60. It was 
therefore sufficient for the meeting notice to state generally that the Board was considering 
3 
===PAGE 4===
applications for abatement or exemption, and the Board did not violate the law by not listing 
specific applications to be discussed in the notice for its January 17, 2012 meeting.4  
2. The Board did not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Considering Abatement 
Applications in Executive Session.  
A board of assessors may enter executive session to discuss and vote on applications for 
tax abatement or exemption. Massachusetts General Laws state that applications for tax 
abatement or exemption may only be disclosed to a select group of public officials, though 
certain information about the application must be made public if it is granted. G.L. c. 59, § 60. 
If a board of assessors plans to discuss the content of an application for tax abatement or 
exemption, therefore, the board may convene in executive session under Purpose 7, "to comply 
with, or act under the authority of, any general law," citing G.L. c. 59, § 60 as the statute 
requiring confidentiality. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7). A board may also wish to discuss tax 
returns, health records, and other sensitive material that is often submitted along with 
applications for tax exemption in executive session, and may do pursuant to Purpose 7 by citing 
the statutory right to privacy, G.L. 214, § 1B, or any other statute requiring confidentiality of 
these records. See id. 
The Board discussed 19 abatements in open session during its January 17, 2012 meeting. 
The Board never entered executive session. In response to the January 26, 2012 complaint, the 
Board adopted new procedures for reviewing tax abatement and exemption requests. At the 
Board's February 7, 2012 meeting, the Board entered into executive session "to comply with 
Chapter 59 Section 60, discussion of abatements, and not return to open session." The Board 
then discussed and voted on the individual abatement applications in executive session. 
Although the February 7, 2012 meeting was not part of the January 26, 2012 complaint, we note 
that the Board's new policy of reviewing tax abatement and exemption applications in executive 
session does not violate the Open Meeting Law, for the reasons explained above. 
3. The Board's Minutes Do Not Contain a Sufficiently Detailed Summary of the Discussion 
of Each Subject.  
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies "create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Documents and other exhibits that are "used by 
the body at an open or executive session shall, along with the minutes, be part of the official 
record of the session." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(d). Furthermore, all documents and exhibits that are 
used at an open session meeting "shall be public records in their entirety and not exempt from 
disclosure pursuant to any of the exemptions" to the public records law, although certain material 
may be exempt from disclosure to the public as personnel information. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e). 
4  See also the Attorney General's OMI, FAQ: Tax Abatements and Exemptions, available at the Attorney General's 
website: www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
4 
===PAGE 5===
Sincerely 
athan Sclarsic 
ssistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
The minutes of the Board's January 17, 2012 meeting list 19 abatement decisions. Each 
decision includes the address of the property, whether an abatement was granted, the amount of 
the abatement if granted, and the vote (unanimous in all 19 decisions). Absent from the minutes 
is a record of any discussion regarding the applications prior to the Board's votes. As the 
meeting lasted 2 1/2  hours, we fmd it unlikely that the Board voted on each application without 
any discussion. Our office has advised that for complete minutes, a "transcript of the discussion 
is not required, but minutes should be sufficiently detailed to allow a person who was not in 
attendance to determine the essence of the discussion and what documents were used." See 
OML 2011-44. Here, the minutes do not include a sufficiently detailed summary of the 
discussion of each abatement application. We note that the same deficiency is present in the 
Board's February 7, 2012 executive session minutes, which list the applications and abatement 
decisions but provide no detail of the discussion prior to each vote. 
CONCLUSION 
We fmd that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by not listing specific 
abatement applicants in its January 17, 2012 meeting notice, or by meeting in executive session 
to discuss applications for tax abatement. However, we find that the Board's minutes for its 
January 17, 2012 meeting are incomplete because they do not include a summary of the 
discussion of each subject. We order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law and order the Board, within thirty (30) days of receiving this determination, 
to amend the minutes of its January 17, 2012 meeting to include a summary of its discussions on 
each subject. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during this investigation, and 
now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve any other 
complaints that may be pending with this office, the Town, or the Board. Please contact me if 
you have any questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Robert Osterberg 
Michael D. Ford, Town Counsel 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
5 