===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 30, 2020 
 
OML 2020 – 138 
 
 
Mark R. Reich, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C.  
101 Arch Street, 12th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By e-mail only:  
 
 RE:        Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Reich: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on September 22, 2020, alleging 
that the Somerset Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 4, and you responded, 
on behalf of the Board, by letter dated September 22.  The complaint alleges that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to announce the name of each member who was 
participating in the September 1 meeting remotely. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the way 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed 
the notice and video recording of the Board’s September 1 meeting.2  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On March 10, Governor Charles Baker declared a state of 
emergency in response to the public health emergency created by the outbreak of the 2019 novel 
Coronavirus (“COVID-19”).  See Exec. Order No. 591 (Mar. 10, 2020).  On March 12, Governor 
Baker issued an executive order temporarily suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2020.  
2 A video recording of the Board’s September 1 meeting is available at 
http://www.somersetaccesstv.org/satv/?page_id=531. 
 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Law during the state of emergency.  See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”).  The Executive Order 
temporarily suspends the requirements under the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s 
Open Meeting Law regulations that a quorum of a public body, including the chair, be physically 
present at the meeting location and allows all members of a public body to participate in a 
meeting remotely.  All other provisions of the law and regulations regarding remote participation 
remain in effect. 
 
On August 28, the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on Tuesday, September 1 
at 6:00 P.M.  The notice listed one topic - a public hearing regarding a petition from Brayton 
Point LLC for construction of a 5,000 square foot building and 3,000 square foot house on 
Brayton Point Road in Somerset.  The notice included the location of the meeting as “Virtual – 
Zoom Meeting” which could be “seen Live on Channel 15 on Comcast” or “Video on Demand 
http://www.somersetaccesstv.org.”  In order to participate in the hearing, a member of the public 
had to contact an identified individual at Somerset Access TV to receive the specific Zoom log-
in access information. 
 
The September 1 meeting was held as planned and four of the five Board members 
participated remotely via Zoom.  The meeting was broadcast on television and online.  Each 
Board member appeared in an individual tile on the Zoom platform.  In addition to the Board 
members’ tiles, there were nine to ten separate individual virtual tiles on display at the beginning 
of the meeting, including ones for the petitioner, Brayton Point LLC, its engineer, and several 
members of the public who wished to speak during the hearing.  The name of each Board 
member, as well as those individuals who participated in the public hearing, was listed in the 
lower left corner of their individual virtual tile and, although in small type, appeared legible.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the  
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of  
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement  
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, §20(a) (except  
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”). 
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as  
well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 
2020-100; OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54.3 
 
The Executive Order suspends the requirement that meetings be physically accessible to 
members of the public, and further temporarily suspends the requirements under the Open 
Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations that a quorum of a 
public body, including the chair, be physically present at the meeting location and allows all 
members of a public body to participate in a meeting remotely.  See OML 2020-82.  All other 
provisions of the law and regulations regarding remote participation remain in effect, including 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
the requirement that “[a]t the start of the meeting, the chair shall announce the name of any 
member who will be participating remotely.  This information shall also be recorded in the 
meeting minutes.”  940 CMR 29.10(7)(b). 
 
On September 1, the Board held a meeting in which four of the five members participated 
remotely via Zoom.  The chair of the Board did not announce the names of the four members 
who were participating remotely at the beginning of the meeting.  We acknowledge that each 
Board member’s name was displayed at the bottom of their individual virtual tile and that this 
may relieve the chair of the requirement to announce each member’s name at the start of the 
meeting.  See, e.g., OML 2016-155 (where a public body regularly records or broadcasts its own 
meetings, it may satisfy the requirement of notification by prominently displaying a sign at the 
meeting location that informs attendees about the recording and thus relieve the chair from 
making a verbal announcement at the start of the meeting); OML 2013-136 (same).  Here, 
however, the virtual tiles of the four Board members were not the only tiles that the public saw 
when viewing the September 1 meeting.  Rather, there were nine to ten additional individual 
virtual tiles on display at the beginning of the September 1 meeting as the Board was holding a 
public hearing, and each additional participant appeared on screen with his or her name 
displayed.  For those members of the public who are not familiar with the Board, it would not 
have been clear which individuals were members of the Board.  Therefore, in the specific 
circumstances here, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
announce the names of the members who were participating remotely during the September 1 
meeting.  See OML 2020-98; OML 2013-112.  We acknowledge the Board’s commitment to 
comply with this procedural requirement moving forward.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.  We 
order immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar 
future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
  
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
  
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
   
 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
cc:       Patrick Higgins – By e-mail only:  
 Somerset Planning Board c/o Secretary Paula Ramos – By e-mail only:  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must 
be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
