===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
wvw.mass.gov/ago 
September 22, 2016 
OML 2016- 133 
James Carvalho 
Chair, Swansea School Committee 
One Gardners Neck Road 
Swansea, MA 02777 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Carvalho: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on June 21, alleging that the 
Swansea School Committee (the Committee) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about June 10, 
and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated June 21. In his complaint, 
Mr. Higgins alleges that the Committee's June 6 meeting notice failed to list the candidates 
to be considered for various Committee assignments. Additionally, Mr. Higgins alleges 
that the notice posted at Town Hall was difficult to read and that the courtesy copies of this 
notice, posted on both the School's website and the Town website, were different. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the notice and minutes of the Committee's meeting held 
on June 6. Finally, we spoke with the Swansea Town Clerk on August 30. 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee held a noticed meeting on June 6. In 
accordance with the Town Clerk's procedures for posting meeting notices, the Committee 
provided an electronic version of the notice (in a Microsoft Word document) to the Town 
Clerk on June 2. Prior to posting, the Town Clerk made one change to this notice by 
eliminating a blank space between the last two items on the notice so that it would print on 
two, rather than three, letter-size pages. The Town Clerk then reduced the two-page notice 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016, 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
to fit on one legal-size page and posted it on a bulletin board at Town Hall, which is the 
Town's official notice posting location. The Town Clerk also posted the notice on the 
Town website as a courtesy to the public. The Committee posted the notice, as originally 
sent to the Town Clerk, to the School District's website as well. All three versions of the 
notice contained the same information and topics. 
One topic for discussion—the appointment of individuals to various 
subcommittees—was enumerated in subsections (t) through (p) of the notice under the 
heading, "Action Items." The topics were listed as "Vote to approve" along with the name 
of each subcommittee. The notice did not list the names of the candidates for appointment 
to those subcommittees. According to the Committee, it had already discussed and 
decided on the appointees during its May 23 meeting. Therefore, the Committee's 
anticipated discussion during the June 6 meeting was to vote to ratify the final list of 
subcommittee members, as created and agreed upon during its May 23 meeting. 
According to the Committee Chair, he did not anticipate discussing any particular 
candidates. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in 
an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). The Open Meeting 
Law requires a public body to post a meeting notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting and 
include "the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public 
bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable 
member of the public could read the topic and understand what the nature of the public 
body's discussion will be. See OML 2016-38; OML 2015-74. 
The complainant alleges that the Committee should have listed the candidates for 
appointment on the meeting notice. Generally, we advise public bodies that when 
considering individuals for appointment to a public body, the names of the candidates 
should be listed on the notice. See OML 2012- 113. Here, the Committee did not discuss 
any individual candidates, but rather ratified the composition of the subcommittees created 
during its prior meeting on May 23. Because the Committee did not discuss individual 
candidates, it was unnecessary to list the names of the individual appointees in this 
instance. Therefore, the topics, as listed, appropriately reflected the anticipated discussion. 
See OML 2014-102. We find no violation in this regard. 
The complainant also alleges that the version of the Committee's June 6 notice that 
the Town Clerk posted on the bulletin board was difficult to read because the font size was 
too small and that the version posted on the Town website was different from the one 
posted on the School District's website. Based on our review of the notices provided by 
2 
===PAGE 3===
the Committee, the Town Clerk made one change to the version posted on the bulletin 
board and the Town Website: the deletion of a blank space in order to move one topic 
from page 3 to the bottom of page 2. Otherwise, the notices on the websites had the same 
content and were in standard 12-point font. 
When assessing notices for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, our office 
looks at the notice that is posted at the official notice posting location which, in this case, is 
the bulletin board at Town Hall. In order to fit the two-page notice on the bulletin board, 
the Town Clerk did condense two letter-size pages to one legal-size page, reducing the font 
size in the process. The Open Meeting Law provides that "[njotice shall be printed in a 
legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time and place of such 
meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). While the font size of the notice was reduced by the clerk, 
we find that the posted notice was still printed in a legible, easily understandable format. 
However, we encourage clerks and public bodies to post notices in at least 12-point 
standard font. We note that the Town Clerk has committed to posting notices in that 
format going forward. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending 
with our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 
if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
-lanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
-> J 