===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
January 10, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 8 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Michael A. Goldsmith, Esq. 
Reynolds, Rappaport, Kaplan & Hackney, LLC 
mgoldsmith@rrklaw.net 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Goldsmith: 
 
This office received a complaint from Julia Keefe on November 6, 2023,
1 alleging that 
the Oak Bluffs Wastewater Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on or about 
October 5, and you responded on behalf of the Commission by letter dated October 26.  The 
complaint alleges that the Commission deliberated outside of a posted meeting by email on 
several occasions in the summer of 2023.   
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a) and find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged.  
In reaching this determination we reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Commission’s response, the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and 
several emails that the complainant provided to our office, which the complainant received on 
October 2 in response to a public records request. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
beration and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is 
a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise noted. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The complaint alleges that three particular emails, dated June 26, June 28, and July 7, 
from Commissioner Cassandra Bowler to a quorum of Commission members, constituted 
deliberation outside of a posted meeting, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  The expression 
of an opinion of one public body member on matters within the body’s jurisdiction to a quorum 
of a public body is a deliberation, even if no other public body member responds.  See OML 
2016-104; OML 2015-33.2  After reviewing the emails in question, we find that the emails 
expressed Commissioner Bowler’s thoughts and opinions regarding potential wastewater flow 
from a farmstand, a matter within the Commission’s jurisdiction.  The Commission 
acknowledges that these emails constituted deliberation, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.   
 
We do not, however, find that an August 3 email from the Wastewater Administrator to 
t
wo Commissioners providing information about the farmstand proposal and requesting that the 
Commissioners “please let us know how to proceed” violated the Open Meeting Law.  The 
Wastewater Administrator is not a member of the Commission and may convey information and 
documents to the Commissioners without running afoul of the Open Meeting Law.  We have 
been presented with no evidence that this email generated any response by the Commissioners, 
let alone communication between or among a quorum of the Commissioners.  Nonetheless, we 
caution that a public body may not engage in serial communication whereby a quorum 
communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a particular subject 
matter within the public body’s jurisdiction.  See OML 2015-3; OML 2012-84; OML 2011-
27; McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (explaining that private serial 
communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to circumvent 
the intent of the law).  Furthermore, a public body may not use a non-member, such as a staff 
member, to facilitate communication on matters it would otherwise be required to save for 
discussion at a posted meeting.  District Attorney for the Northern District v. School Committee 
of Wayland, 451 Mass. 561, 570-571 (2009); OML 2020-144; OML 2016-31.   
 
Finally, we decline to review general concerns, expressed in the complaint, that the 
Commission “regularly improperly deliberates and the members make decisions outside of 
public meetings,” as complaints must allege violations with a degree of specificity; our office 
will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations.
3  See OML 
2021-133; OML 2012-106.  Although we do not formally review this allegation, based on our 
review of the emails provided, specifically those among commissioners as well as the request 
from the Wastewater Administrator that the Commissioners advise by email on how to proceed 
on a matter that was pending before the Commission, we note concern about discussion and 
decision-making outside of posted meetings, and remind the Commission of its obligations under 
the Open Meeting Law. 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
3 The only specific example provided, other than the emails already discussed, is based on a June 28 meeting 
wherein the complaint alleges a Commissioner alluded to an analogous matter that the Commission had reviewed 
several years prior, before the Commissioner was a member of the Commission, which the complaint asserts 
suggests recent discussion about the matter outside of a meeting.  Complaints alleging a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the alleged violation, or if the alleged violation 
could not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then within 30 days of the date it should reasonably 
have been discovered.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4).  Violations that occur in open session are 
discoverable when they occur, not when minutes of the meeting become available .  See OML Declination 3-3-2014 
(Sterling Board of Selectmen). 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by deliberating by email outside of a posted meeting.  The Commission committed to make 
the emails at issue a part of the public record of the meeting where the referenced property was 
discussed, and Commissioner Bowler attended a training on the Open Meeting Law presented by 
this office.  We order the Commission’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, and caution that a similar future violation of the Law may be considered evidence 
of an intentional violation of the Law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Oak Bluffs Wastewater Commission (via email:
 wastewateradmin@oakbluffsma.gov)  
Oak Bluffs Town Clerk (via email: cmorris@oakbluffsma.gov)  
Julia Keefe (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
