===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
May 29, 2013 
OML 2013 — 70 
Thomas Mullen, Esq. 
Law Offices of Thomas A. Mullen, P.C. 
545 Salem Street 
Wakefield, MA 01880-1227 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Mullen: 
This office received a complaint from Daniel Lieber dated August 30, 2012, alleging 
that the Wakefield School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about 
July 31, 2012, and the Committee responded to the original complaint by letter dated August 
6, 2012. In his complaint, Mr. Lieber alleges that on July 6, 2012, the Committee's "IT MOU 
Dissolution Subcommittee" met outside of a properly posted open meeting. 
We reviewed the July 31, 2012 complaint; your August 6, 2012 response on behalf of 
the Committee; the August 30, 2012 complaint filed with our office; and your October 30, 
2012 letter on behalf of the Committee.' We reviewed the notices and minutes from the 
Committee's June 19, 2012 meeting. We also spoke individually by telephone with 
Committee Chair Thomas Markham and Vice Chair Anne Danehy. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this 
matter. Following our review, we find that because no public body was created to discuss the 
School District's information technology services, there was no improper deliberation by the 
group of officials who met to discuss those matters. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. The 
Wakefield School Committee consists of seven members, thus four constitutes a quorum. 
Mr. Lieber alleges that on July 6, 2012, there was a meeting of a "de facto" 
subcommittee of the Committee, which he labeled the "IT MOU Dissolution Subcommittee," 
which was not posted or open to the public. Specifically, the complaint alleges that 
1  For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
0 
===PAGE 2===
Committee Chair Markham, Committee Vice Chair Danehy, Board of Selectmen (the 
"Board") Chair Betsy Sheeran, and "possibly others" met to discuss the separation of 
information technology ("IT") services for the School District from the Town IT Department. 
The Committee had previously decided to consider changing its approach to IT 
services, a topic which the Committee had discussed since it executed a Memorandum of 
Understanding ("MOU") for IT services with the Town in 2011. Although they were not 
directed to do so by either the Board or the Committee, Town personnel met twice to discuss 
dissolving the MOU. 
On June 19, 2012, Superintendent Joan Landers, Committee Chairman Markham, 
Town Administrator Stephen Maio and Board Chair Sheeran met with the Town's IT 
Department to discuss the MOU, which the Committee planned to discuss at that evening's 
meeting. Later that evening, the Committee convened a meeting in open session. The notice 
for the Committee meeting, posted with the Town Clerk on June 14, 2012, listed the 
following among the topics for discussion: "Executive Session (6 P.M. — Superintendent's 
Office) (Motion) a. Discussion of Contractual Relationship with Town." The Committee 
convened in the Superintendent's Conference Room and, at the advice of counsel, held the 
discussion regarding the MOU in open session.2  Following the discussion about the MOU, 
the Committee voted to dissolve the MOU with the Town, and directed Superintendent 
Landers to implement a plan for new IT services. 
On July 6, 2012, Superintendent Landers, Chairman Markham, Vice Chair Danehy, IT 
Administrator for the School Elaine Hughes, and four private consultants met to plan the 
implementation of new IT services for the 2012 school year. 
DISCUSSION 
A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction[.]" G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "public body" 
subject to the Open Meeting Law is any "multiple-member board, commission, committee or 
subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any county, district, city, 
region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to 
serve a public purpose." Id. The law defines "deliberation," in part, as "an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum 
of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. 
The complainant alleges that the Committee created an "IT MOU Dissolution 
Subcommittee" that met outside of an open meeting. On June 19, 2012, Chairman Markham 
attended a meeting with several Town officials and Superintendent Landers to notify them 
about an upcoming topic that he planned to discuss at that evening's Committee meeting, 
namely possible dissolution of the MOU between the Committee and the Town. No other 
2  Although not raised by the complainant, we note that an open meeting held in a location that is not truly open 
to the public does not comply with the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); OML 2012-48. The Open 
Meeting Law requires that a meeting of a public body be open and accessible so that members of the public may 
observe and hear the body's deliberations. Id. Additionally, it appears that, here, the actual meeting location 
may have been different from the location identified in the meeting notice. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Committee members were present at that meeting. That evening, the Committee voted to 
dissolve the MOU and entrusted Superintendent Landers, individually, with the responsibility 
of implementing a new IT plan. On July 6, 2012, Chairman Markham and Vice Chair Danehy 
attended another meeting with Town officials and IT consultants to address the changeover. 
Neither the Committee nor the Board authorized these meetings or otherwise created a 
public body that was officially delegated this task. Because the group that met was not a 
public body in its own right, and neither meeting involved a quorum of the Committee, there 
was no improper deliberation under the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending 
with our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if 
you have any questions or believe any facts in this letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Daniel Lieber 
Wakefield School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3 