===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
February 1, 2016 
OML 2016-12 
Paul McCormick, Chair 
Dennis Board of Selectmen 
485 Main Street 
South Dennis, MA 02660 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Dear Chair McCormick; 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty, dated September 23, 2015, alleging 
that the Dennis Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. BOA, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 1, 2015, and, after an 
extension of time was granted, the Board responded by letter dated September 10, 2015. In his 
complaint, Mr. Beaty alleges that the Board: (i) failed to indicate on a meeting notice that it 
would meet in open session prior to entering executive session; and (ii) provided insufficient 
detail about an anticipated executive session.1 
Following our review, we find that the Board's notice did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. Flowever, while not raised in the complaint, we find that portions of the discussion at 
issue, concerning issuance of a press release, lacked a valid executive session purpose. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Board's response; and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice and minutes of a 
Board meeting held on July 6, 2015. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on July 6, 
2015. The notice listed two anticipated discussion items: (i) a joint session with the Dennis 
1 Beginning on October 1, 2015, our office made repeated attempts, by both telephone and e-mail, to obtain copies 
of the July 6, 2015 executive session minutes from the Board's legal counsel. The executive session minutes were 
provided on December 3, 2015. The Open Meeting Law states that "[u]pon notification of an investigation, any 
person, public body or any other state, regional, county, municipal or other governmental official or entity who is 
the subject of an investigation, shall make all information necessary to conduct such investigation available to the 
attorney general." G.L. c. 30A, § 24(a). We note that failure to provide documents requested by this office may 
itself be a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
A ^8 SEIJJ 
===PAGE 2===
Finance Committee to tour the site of the future Dennis Town Hall; and (ii) an executive session, 
"[t]o discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation." No further information 
was given about the second anticipated topic. 
The Board held the July 6, 2015 meeting as planned. During this meeting, the Chair 
stated that the Board would enter executive session "to discuss strategy with respect to 
litigation." Again, no further information was given. The minutes of this executive session have 
not been released, and we therefore do not recount their contents in detail. However, because 
certain information at issue has subsequently been made available by the body, we reference it 
here. The discussion concerned the fact that a teacher in the Dennis-Yarmouth Regional School 
District had an inappropriate relationship with a student. Because it believed this matter was 
likely to result in litigation, the Town's insurance carrier retained legal counsel to meet with the 
Board during this executive session and advise the Board on the Town's litigation exposure. 
Portions of the discussion also concerned how to handle this incident from a public relations 
standpoint. The Board believed that disclosing additional information about the nature of its 
discussion would compromise its litigating position. Ultimately, the Board voted during this 
executive session to authorize the Police Chief to issue a press release concerning the events at 
issue. 
DISCUSSION 
Public bodies must post notice of every meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must 
be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of 
the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. 
Id. The listing of topics "shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2011-15. 
A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a). One such purpose permits a public body to enter into executive session to 
"discuss strategy with respect to... litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the... litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. BOA, § 21(a)(3) 
("Purpose 3"). The mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke executive session 
Purpose 3. See OML 2012-5; OML 2011-30.2 Litigation must be pending or clearly and 
imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. See Perrvman v. School Committee of 
Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-43. When entering executive session 
pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body must identify the litigation matter that it intends to discuss, 
both in the written notice and verbal statement made before entering executive session, if doing 
so will not compromise the executive session purpose. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); OML 2014-
145; OML 2013-91. While we generally defer to a public body's assessment of whether the 
inclusion of such information would compromise the purpose for an executive session, a public 
body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for that claim if challenged. See OML 
2015-14. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Board failed to provide sufficient information about 
the litigation matter to be discussed in executive session on July 6, 2015. Indeed, the Board did 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
not provide a description of the litigation matter at issue, either on the meeting notice or in the 
verbal statement made during the meeting. The discussion concerned a matter that could 
reasonably be expected to lead to litigation, and, on the unique facts present here, we conclude 
that the Board was justified in believing that the disclosure of identifying information about the 
matter at issue would compromise its litigating position. See OML 2015-44; OML 2014-145. 
Accordingly, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by omitting this information from 
its notice. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). 
The complaint also alleges that the meeting notice is insufficient because it failed to list 
an open session prior to the executive session. When the only business to be discussed during an 
open session is the procedural requirements for entering executive session, listing "open session" 
on the meeting notice is the only means by which members of the public are informed that a 
public body will, in fact, hold an open meeting that they are permitted to attend. See OML 2015-
105; OML 2013-9. Without such notice, members of the public are essentially denied the 
opportunity to attend and learn the reasons for the executive session. See OML 2013-195. Here, 
the meeting notice listed one topic besides the anticipated executive session, a joint session with 
the Finance Committee, thus it was clear that an open session would occur. The Board, 
therefore, did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this regard. See OML 2015-148. 
While not raised in the complaint, we find that portions of the July 6, 2015 executive 
session were not appropriate for discussion in executive session. While the discussion of the 
Board's litigation exposure generally fit within the scope of a Purpose 3 executive session, the 
Board's discussion of public relations strategies and of the press release was not covered by any 
executive session purpose. See OML 2011-39. Although it may have been uncomfortable for the 
Board to discuss those strategies in open session, the Open Meeting Law requires such 
transparency. The Board therefore violated the Open Meeting Law by holding this portion of the 
discussion in executive session. Id. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution 
that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
Furthermore, because the portion of the July 6, 2015 executive session concerning a press release 
lacked a proper statutory purpose, we order the release to the public of that portion of the 
executive session minutes within ten (10) days of receipt of this letter. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e). 
The Board may not withhold this portion of the minutes, based on privilege or any exemption 
under the Public Records Law. See OML 2015-10. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
rc~-i 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ronald Beaty 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 