===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 22, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 199 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Alexander Castro, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC  
   
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Castro: 
This office received a complaint from Jack Rybicki on August 12, 2021,1 alleging that the 
Newbury Select Board (the “Board”)—and specifically members Alicia Greco, Michael Doyle, 
and Geoffrey Walker—violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.2 The complaint 
was originally filed with the Board on July 12, and you responded on behalf of the Board by 
letter dated July 29. The complaint alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a properly 
noticed Board meeting on June 29 while attending a meeting of the Newbury Council on Aging 
(the “Council”).3 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a properly noticed Board meeting. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, 
the minutes for the June 29 Council meeting, and recordings of portions of the June 29 meeting.4 
 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2021 unless otherwise stated. 
2 The complaint also specifically names Town Counsel. The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and 
their members; therefore, we decline to review any allegations that Town Counsel violated the Open Meeting Law. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
3 Our review is limited to allegations of violations of the Open Meeting Law raised in the original complaint filed 
with the Board. 
4 The recordings we reviewed may be found at https://www.facebook.com/1664171716/videos/888976565118231/ 
and https://www.facebook.com/1664171716/videos/332067758734236/. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Board is a five-member public body; therefore, 
three members constitute a quorum. On June 29 three members of the Board—Alicia Greco, 
Michael Doyle, and Geoffrey Walker—attended a meeting of the Council.5 The purpose of the 
Council’s June 29 meeting was to reconsider a vote the Council had taken on June 21 with 
respect to construction plans for a new joint Town Hall and Council on Aging facility and the 
possibility of creating a committee to review the project further. The notice for the Council’s 
June 29 meeting did not indicate that the meeting would be a joint meeting with the Board, and 
the Board did not separately post notice for a meeting to be held on June 29 at 1:00 p.m.  
 
At the beginning of the June 29 meeting the Chair of the Council announced that no 
comments from the public would be allowed. After some discussion by the Council regarding the 
space needs for the Council on Aging facility and the location of the new facility, the Chair of 
the Council asked if any of the three Board members present wanted to comment on the subject 
under discussion. Each Board member spoke in response to this invitation. Member Doyle spoke 
first, explaining that his neighbors were frustrated with development in the area and expressing 
his thoughts regarding the suitability of a particular location for the new facility. Member Greco 
spoke next stating that the space needs assessment report should be referred to the Board so that 
it could meet to discuss a location for the facility. Member Greco went on to explain that the 
Council did not have the ability to move the project forward but that the Board did and so she 
felt the project should be referred to the Board at that time. Finally, member Walker spoke and 
noted that if the Board reviewed the space needs assessment report it might conclude that the 
current proposed location would not be suitable for the facility and at that time it could look for a 
different location.   
 
After the three Board members spoke, Evelyn Noyes, a member of the Council at the 
time, asked the three Board members if they would be willing to say that the Board would look 
at other locations for the facility. Before Ms. Noyes finished speaking and before any Board 
member responded, Town Counsel advised that because there was a quorum of the Board 
present, responding to Ms. Noyes’s question would violate the Open Meeting Law. The Board 
members did not respond to Ms. Noyes’ question.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Except in an emergency, “a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). The Open Meeting Law defines a “meeting” as “a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. However, this definition 
includes several exceptions, including that the “attendance by a quorum of a public body at a 
meeting of another public body that has complied with the notice requirements of the open 
meeting law” shall not constitute a meeting, “so long as the visiting members communicate only 
 
5 We note that it is unclear whether notice for the Council’s meeting was posted to the Town’s website, 
https://www.townofnewbury.org/, which is its official method of posting meeting notices. We remind the Town that 
all meeting notices must be posted to the official notice posting location on record with our office, in order for the 
notice to comply with the Open Meeting Law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
by open participation in the meeting on those matters under discussion by the host body and do 
not deliberate.” Id. “Deliberation” is defined, in relevant part, as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id. A “quorum” is defined as “a 
simple majority of the members of the public body.” Id. 
 
A quorum of a public body may attend the meeting of another public body without 
posting notice so long as the visiting public body members listen and participate as members of 
the audience and do not deliberate. See OML 2020-18; OML 2012-6.6 When determining 
whether a quorum of a public body has deliberated while attending the meeting of another public 
body, we look for indicia of deliberation such as whether the visiting body members were seated 
with the general public and whether they participated by open participation as members of the 
audience, and not in a special capacity as public body members. See OML 2021-108; OML 
2020-18; OML 2016-117; OML 2012-6.  
 
The Board concedes that a quorum of the Board was present at the June 29 meeting and 
that the matter on which the three Board members spoke was public business within the Board’s 
jurisdiction. Nonetheless, the Board asserts that the Board members did not deliberate during the 
Council’s June 29 meeting because “the Select Board members responded to the Chair [of the 
Council] openly and in their individual capacity as members of the public.” We disagree. The 
three Board members did not speak in their capacity as members of the general public, but rather 
in their capacity as members of the Board. The Chair of the Council expressly stated at the 
beginning of the meeting that no comments would be accepted from members of the public. 
Furthermore, the Board members were invited to speak on the issue of the new Town Hall and 
Council on Aging facility precisely because of their positions as members of the Board. The 
members of the Board, after being invited to speak by the Chair of the Council, discussed their 
opinions regarding the potential location of the Town Hall and the Council on Aging facility and 
the process for finding and assessing additional potential locations if needed, including the 
Board’s role in that process and next steps it might take. If the Board members had simply 
reported on a discussion or vote of the Board that had already taken place in a previous open 
meeting, this may not have constituted deliberation. See OML 2020-93, n.4; see also OML 2021-
82 (finding that updates circulated by a public body chair summarizing what had occurred at the 
previous meeting did not constitute improper deliberation). But that is not what occurred here. 
We find here that the Board members were not participating in the Council’s June 29 meeting as 
members of the general public, nor were they simply reporting on discussions held or actions 
taken at a previous Board meeting. Instead, we find that the three Board members violated the 
Open Meeting Law by deliberating during the Council’s June 29 meeting without first posting 
notice. See OML 2020-18; OML 2012-6; OML 2016-117.  
 
Finally, we must determine whether the violation found here was intentional, as the 
Complainant asserts. An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body or a 
member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. An 
intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the 
Law’s requirements or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Meeting Law. Id. We have not previously warned the Board against the violation found here, nor 
do we find other evidence that would support finding an intentional violation. We understand 
from the request for further review that the Complainant’s concern is that the Board was allowed 
to speak while members of the public were not and his belief that this was done “on purpose to 
mute citizen voice.” We note that the Open Meeting Law provides the public with a right to 
witness the meetings of public bodies, but not a right to actively participate in those meetings. 
See G.L. c. 30A § 20(g); OML 2020-161. Therefore, that the public was denied the opportunity 
to speak at the June 29 meeting does not violate the Open Meeting Law and does not form a 
basis for finding that the Board intentionally violated the Law.     
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board deliberated at the Council’s June 29 
meeting without first posting notice. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, and caution that similar violations in the future may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the Law. 940 CMR 29.02. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
 
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Alicia Greco, Chair of the Newbury Select Board (via email: 
) 
Jack Rybicki (via e-mail:  
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
