===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 21, 2015 
OML 2015-93 
Gary P. Howayeck, Esq. 
Assistant Corporation Counsel 
City of Fall River 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complamt 
Dear Attorney Howayeck: 
This office received three related complaints from CJ. Ferry, all dated May 13, alleging 
that the Fall River Solid Waste Task Force (the "Task Force") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The first two complaints were filed with the Task Force on April 23, 
and the third complaint was filed with the Task Force on May 7. The Task Force responded to 
all three complaints by letter dated May 11. In his complaints, Mr. Ferry alleges that the Task 
Force held a meeting without posting notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Task Force is not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law and therefore it did not violate the Law by not following its requirements. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaints; the Task Force's response; and 
the request for further review filed with our office. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On or about March 30, the Mayor of the City of Fall River 
(the "City") created the Task Force at issue here to analyze the current waste disposal program 
used by the City. The Task Force was charged with reporting to the Mayor regarding its analysis 
of the effectiveness of the current program, as well as any proposed changes. The Mayor retains 
sole authority to decide which, if any, of the changes proposed by the Task Force to implement. 
The Task Force met on May 7 and did not post any public notice of this meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law defines a "public body," in relevant part, as "a multiple member 
board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or 
within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]" G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Supreme Judicial 
Court recognized an exemption to the definition of "public body," however, in Connelly v. 
School Committee of Hanover. 409 Mass. 232 (1991). In Connelly, the Court held that, where 
an individual public official creates a committee to advise that person on a decision that the 
official has the sole authority to make, that committee is not subject to the Open meeting Law. 
Here, the complaints allege that the Task Force violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to post notice for its May 7 meeting. The Mayor created the Task Force of his own volition. He 
was not required to do so and he retained sole authority to make a final decision regarding any 
future changes to municipal waste policy. Because the Mayor created the Task Force solely to 
advise him in making this decision, we find that the Task Force falls within the Connelly 
exception to the definition of "public body" and was therefore not subject to the Open Meeting 
Law. See Connelly. 409 Mass. at 235; OML 2014-56; OML 2012-65.2 As such, the Task Force 
was not required to post notice of its meetings. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Task Force is not a public body subject to 
the Open Meeting Law and therefore it did not violate the Law by not following its requirements. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Task Force. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
cc: C.J. Ferry 
Fall River Solid Waste Task Force 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's Website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
Id. at 235. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 