===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
December 21, 2018 
OML 2018-159
Kathleen E. Connolly, Esq.
Louison, Costello, Condon & Pfaff, LLP 
101 Summer Street 
Boston, MA 02110
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Connolly:
This office received a complaint from Richard Parker on August 20, alleging that the 
Foxborough Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on June 21, and you responded, on 
behalf of the Board, by letter dated July 3. The complaint alleges that, during its June 12 
meeting, the Board discussed topics that were not listed on the meeting notice.
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed 
the notices of, and open session minutes from, the Board’s May 15 and June 12 meetings as well 
as a video recording of the June 12 meeting.2
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. At a Board meeting on May 15, the complainant spoke 
during “Citizen’s Input” and questioned the transparency of the regional 911 dispatch project and 
discussed his requests for various records regarding the Board’s decision to pursue regional 
emergency dispatch.
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 The video recording is available at https://video.fcatv.org/videos/6-12-18-board-of-selectmen-meeting/. This 
office also received a copy of the video recording from the complainant.
o

===PAGE 2===
On June 8 at 9:40 A.M., the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on Tuesday, 
June 12 at 7:00 P.M. The notice listed nine topics, including an Executive Session, Citizen’s 
Input, New Member Appointment, Business Name Change, Approval of the Town Manager’s 
Evaluation, Selectmen’s Updates, Town Manager’s Updates, Assistant Town Manager’s 
Updates, and Action Items.
The June 12 meeting was held as planned. During “Citizen’s Input,” the complainant 
addressed the Board for approximately four minutes and summarized previous meetings he had 
attended and the lack of response to his requests for various records, including a feasibility study, 
regarding regional emergency dispatch. Board Member James DeVellis noted that the 
complainant had spoken to the Board at prior meetings and sought a way to resolve this recurring 
issue. Town Manager William Keegan responded that he has offered to meet with the 
complainant to discuss his records requests but the complainant has refused to do so.
The Board then appointed a new member to the Commission on Disability, approved a 
name change for a local business, discussed and approved Mr. Keegan’s evaluation, and received 
updates from other Board members, Mr. Keegan, and Assistant Town Manager Mary Beth 
Bernard. At the conclusion of all the updates, Mr. Keegan addressed the complainant’s 
comments made during “Citizen’s Input.” Specifically, he stated that the Town has provided 
copies of records to the complainant and expressed frustration that the complainant has refused 
to meet with him to further discuss the records requests. Mr. Keegan then invited Rob Verdone, 
Executive Director of the Southeastern Massachusetts Regional 911 District (“District”), to 
speak to the Board. Mr. Verdone explained that the District has received only one records 
request from the complainant and has tried to be transparent about its discussions regarding the 
possible location of a regional emergency dispatch center. The Board then briefly discussed 
whether it could consider the topic further that night but ultimately decided to place the topic on 
a future notice.3
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and that every 
notice include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies 
must list topics for discussion with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to 
include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35; OML 
2012-71; OML 2011-44.4
3 We note that the Board posted notice for a June 26 meeting that included the topic of “Regional Dispatch” and 
which was discussed at that meeting.
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
The complaint alleges that the Board discussed a topic, regional emergency dispatch, 
during its June 12 meeting that was not listed on the meeting notice. We agree that the topic was 
not listed on the June 12 notice. However, we do not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law 
because a public body may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not 
anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting. See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87. 
Here, the complainant himself raised the issue of regional dispatch when he spoke to the Board 
during “Citizen’s Input.” Even though the complainant had previously raised the issue at the 
Board’s May 15 meeting, Chair Chris Mitchell did not plan to raise the issue himself during the 
June 12 meeting. Because the chair did not reasonably anticipate that the Board would discuss 
regional dispatch during the June 12 meeting, he was not required to list it in the meeting notice. 
See OML 2015-195; OML 2015-4.
We further find that the Board did not actually discuss regional emergency dispatch on 
June 12. Rather, Mr. Keegan and Mr. Verdone, who are not members of the Board, responded to 
the complainant’s concerns and discussed his records requests and possible regional emergency 
dispatch location centers. When a public body does not actually deliberate on a noticed topic, 
the public body does not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to that topic. See OML 
2015-63; OML 2014-81. Finally, while a public body may consider a topic at a meeting that was 
not listed in the notice if it was not reasonably anticipated at least 48 hours before the meeting, 
we strongly encourage public bodies to postpone discussion of topics that were not listed in the 
meeting notice until the topic may be included in a meeting notice, unless the circumstances 
demand immediate action by the public body. See OML 2013-197; OML 2011-23 (finding that 
a public body did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing an unanticipated topic raised 
during a meeting by a Board member other than the chair).
The complainant further alleges that the Board did not allow him to respond to Mr. 
Keegan’s comments about his records requests. The Open Meeting Law does not require that a 
public body allow public participation in its meetings, but rather provides that “[n]o person shall 
address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the 
request of the chair, be silent.” G.L. c. 30 A, § 20(g). The Open Meeting Law therefore gives 
discretion to the chair of a public body to determine who may speak or otherwise participate at a 
meeting. See OML 2014-23; OML 2013-64; OML 2012-59. As it is within the chair’s 
discretion to limit public participation during a meeting, he did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by doing so here. However, we encourage public bodies to allow public participation 
whenever possible. See OML 2015-12; OML 2014-129; OML 2012-59.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
3

===PAGE 4===
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Richard Parker
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
