===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
September 25, 2018 
OML 2018- 130
David A. DeLuca, Esq.
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410 
Quincy, MA 02169
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney DeLuca:
This office received a complaint from Peter Chipman on January 18, 2018 alleging that 
the Norfolk Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 29, and you responded, 
on behalf of the Board, by letter dated December 12. The complaint alleges that the Board 
i) discussed and took action on a topic, the sale of land, that was not listed on its April 10 
meeting notice; and ii) failed to maintain accurate minutes of its April 10 meeting.
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find the allegation regarding the insufficiently detailed meeting notice to be untimely, 
as discussed below. We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
maintain accurate minutes. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, 
the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed the notices of, and open session minutes from, the Board’s April 10, 
December 6, and January 23, 2018 meetings. Finally, we spoke with the complainant by 
telephone on March 27, 2018, and with you by telephone on September 13, 2018.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body; thus two 
members constitute a quorum. On February 17, Edward O’Harte, Manager for Lakeland Hills, 
LLC, submitted an application to the Massachusetts Housing Finance Agency (“Mass Housing”) 
for development of a Chapter 40B residential condominium project to be located at Seekonk
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017.

===PAGE 2===
Street in the Town of Norfolk. The project would consist of 76 single family townhomes, 19 of 
which would be affordable homes.
On April 6, the Board posted notice for a joint meeting with the Norfolk Advisory Board 
to be held on April 10. The notice included five topics, including presentation and discussion of 
the King Philip Fiscal Year 2018 budget, consideration of the Slattery property near Park Street, 
approval of a general contractor for the police station project, approval of a conservation 
restriction for Winding Hollow property, and consideration of the use of Town Hill for Easter 
services by the Federated Church.
On April 7, Jim Lehan, Chair of the Board, met with Mr. O’Harte, who proposed selling 
his property on Seekonk Street to the Town for $850,000. Mr. Lehan explained that such a 
purchase would have to be approved by Town Meeting. The meeting lasted for approximately 
10 minutes.
The Board met on April 10 as planned. During the meeting, the Board decided that the 
Town was not interested in the Slattery property, appointed a general contractor for the police 
station project, approved a conservation restriction for Winding Hollow, LLC, and approved the 
use of town hill by the Federated Church for Easter service. At the end of the meeting, Chair 
Lehan informed the Board of the meeting he had with Mr. O’Harte on April 7, and Mr.
O’Harte’s proposal to sell the Seekonk Street property to the town. This conversation is not 
reflected in the April 10 meeting minutes.
On April 11, Chair Lehan emailed Mr. O’Harte and indicated that he had shared their 
conversation with the Board. Chair Lehan then stated that the “board would only consider 
further discussions on this with the understanding that any such transaction would not exceed 
your purchase price.”
On November 29, the complainant filed an Open Meeting Law complaint regarding the 
Board’s failure to list the Seekonk Street topic on its April 10 meeting notice and failure to 
record that discussion in its April 10 minutes. The Board reviewed the complaint during its 
December 6 meeting. Although the Board believed that no violation occurred, it agreed to post 
notice of the matter at a subsequent meeting to resolve the complaint.
On January 18, 2018, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on January 23, 
2018. The notice listed “Discussion Items,” among other topics, and included “Update of 
conversation with Mr. O’Harte (review from April 10, 2017 meeting).”
During the January 23, 2018, meeting, Chair Lehan discussed the conversation he had 
with Mr. O’Harte on April 7. Specifically, he indicated that Mr. O’Harte wanted the town to buy 
his Seekonk Street property for $850,000, and that Mr. O’Harte would like an answer before he 
received final approval for his Chapter 40B project from Mass Housing. Chair Lehan reported 
that he had told Mr. O’Harte that he would need to get Town Meeting approval. The Board 
approved the April 7 minutes during this meeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION
The complaint concerns the Board’s April 10 meeting. Complaints alleging violations of 
the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the alleged 
violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged violation could not reasonably have been known 
at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed within 30 days of the date it should 
reasonably have been discovered. 940 CMR 29.05(3). When an alleged violation occurs during 
an open meeting, the alleged violation is reasonably discoverable at the time it occurs. See OML 
2014-85; OML 2012-52.2
Specifically, the complainant alleges that, during the April 10 meeting, the Board 
discussed the potential sale of property located at Seekonk Street to the town. The complainant 
learned about the Board’s discussions after speaking with Mr. O’Harte in mid-November. 
However, the April 10 meeting took place entirely in open session. Therefore, any complaint 
concerning discussions occurring during the April 10 meeting should have been filed with the 
Board within 30 days, or by May 10. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). Because the complaint was filed 
with the Board on November 29, we find that this allegation is untimely and we decline to 
review it. See OML Declination 2-1-17 (West Bridgewater Board of Water Boarders); OML 
Declination 11-21-16 (Middleton Planning Board); OML Declination 12-15-14 (Ware 
Conservation Board).
Although we do not review the merits of this allegation, we note that the April 10 
meeting notice did not include the Seekonk Street property as a topic. However, Chair Lehan 
reviewed with the Board his discussion with Mr. O’Harte regarding a proposed sale of property 
located on Seekonk Street. We take this opportunity to remind the Board that the Open Meeting 
Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting “at least 48 hours prior to such 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and that every notice include “the 
date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies must list topics for 
discussion with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to include 
sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35; OML 
2012-71; OML 2011-44.
The complaint further alleges that the April 10 minutes are inaccurate because they do 
not include any reference to the Seekonk Street discussion. The Open Meeting Law requires that 
a public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive 
sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for 
substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2013-64. By substantial 
compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a
2 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear 
understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106.
Here, Chair Lehan advised the Board during the April 10 meeting that he had met with 
Mr. O’Harte, who offered to sell his property on Seekonk Street to the town for $850,000. The 
Open Meeting Law defines deliberation broadly to include communication between or among a 
quorum of the Board on any matter within its jurisdiction. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The minutes 
for the April 10 meeting do not include any reference to Chair Lehan’s conversation with Mr. 
O’Harte. However, we note that these minutes had not been approved as the final minutes by the 
Board at the time the complaint was filed. A public body may revise draft minutes at any point 
prior to their approval to correct inaccuracies or add detail. Accordingly, because these minutes 
remained in draft form at the time this complaint was filed, we find that the Board did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law by creating inaccurate or insufficiently detailed minutes. See OML 
2014-13; OML 2014-7.
The Board subsequently approved the April 10 meeting minutes at its January 23, 2018 
meeting, but the minutes still did not include a reference to this conversation. We recommend 
that the Board amend its April 10 minutes to include the conversation about the Seekonk Street 
property. We acknowledge that, in response to the complaint, the Board included Chair Lehan’s 
conversation as a topic on its January 23, 2018, meeting notice and discussed it at that meeting. 
We commend the Board for posting this topic on its January 23 notice, discussing it at that 
meeting, and including the discussion in those minutes.
Finally, although not raised in the complaint, we note that the April 10 meeting minutes 
were not approved in a timely manner. Meeting minutes must be reviewed and approved in a 
timely manner, which as of October 6, 2017, means “within the next three public body meetings 
or within 30 days, whichever is later.” See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); 940 CMR 29.11. Whenever 
possible, we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 
2014-15; OML 2012-91. Even before the October 6, 2017, effective date of the revised Open 
Meeting Law regulations requiring that minutes be approved within the next three meetings or 
within 30 days, we had concluded that for bodies that meet regularly, such as weekly or bi­
monthly, a delay of two to three months in approving minutes did not comply with the law.3 See 
OML 2016-62; OML 2013-31. Here, the Board met regularly but did not approve its April 10 
minutes until January 23, 2018, despite having met eighteen times between April and January. 
We remind the Board of its obligations under the law and note our concern that the Board had 
many opportunities to approve these minutes but failed to do so. As to the complainant’s 
assertion that the meeting minutes were not properly posted and/or filed, we note that the Open 
Meeting Law does not require that public bodies post their meeting minutes to a website, or that 
minutes be filed with the Town Clerk. See OML 2013-103.
3 We note that the minutes at issue here pertain to meetings that occurred prior to the effective date of the 
regulations.
4

===PAGE 5===
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by creating inaccurate or insufficiently detailed minutes. We now consider the complaint 
addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other 
complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our 
office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
UmJm'
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Peter Chipman
Norfolk Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
5
