===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
November 19, 2019 2019 
OML 2019-151
Rosemary Crowley, Esq.
Doherty, Wallace, Pillsbury and Murphy, P.C. 
One Monarch Place 
Springfield, MA 01144
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Crowley:
This office received a complaint from Joe Mascara on June 14, 2019, alleging that the 
Hampden Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about April 16, 2019, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated May 6, 2019. The complaint alleges that the 
Board deliberated outside of a noticed meeting with regard to a license the Complainant sought 
from the Board.1
Following our review, we do not find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the complaint, the Board’s response, and the request for 
further review. We also communicated with the Complainant by phone and with counsel for the 
Board2 by phone and email.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body; thus, two 
members constitute a quorum. On March 18,3 the Board held a meeting at which the 
Complainant’s application for a license was discussed and acted upon. Prior to the meeting, the 
Board’s administrative assistant created a working draft of the Complainant’s license. The 
Complainant believes he overheard two Board members, prior to the start of the meeting, 
discussing his license in comparison to an earlier license the Board had reviewed. The two Board 
members do not recall having such a discussion. At the meeting, the Board approved the license.
1 In the complaint and request for further review, the Complainant also raises concerns about the behavior of Board 
members at the meeting and the licensing process. These matters do not fall within the scope of the Open Meeting 
Law and we do not address them in this determination.
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person going forward.
3 All dates are in 2019.
G

===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public 
body be noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. The law defines 
“deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction.” Id. For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the 
members of a public body. Id.
The Complainant alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a posted meeting on two 
occasions. First, the Complainant alleges that two Board members discussed his license before 
the March 18 meeting began. Second, the Complainant alleges that the Board must have 
deliberated at some point before the meeting regarding his license because a draft of the license 
was created before the meeting and this is not the normal practice of the Board. To support this 
allegation, the Complainant notes that in the past he has received licenses from the Board in the 
mail after a meeting and that in this instance he received the approved license at the meeting.
With regard to the first allegation, the Board responds that, while it would not be unusual 
for Board members to greet each other before a meeting and inquire as to what was on the 
agenda for that evening, the two Board members do not remember discussing the Complainant’s 
license before the March 18 meeting began. With regard to the second allegation, the Board 
responds that the draft license was prepared in advance of the meeting by the Board’s 
administrative assistant. The Board states that the administrative assistant routinely drafts 
licenses, which are on a form, in advance of Board meetings. If a license is approved as drafted, 
it is signed at the meeting. If a license is approved subject to edits, then it would not be signed at 
the meeting but rather would be edited and then signed at a later date.
After discussions with the Complainant and with counsel for the Board, we find that there 
is insufficient evidence to support a finding that the Board deliberated outside of a posted 
meeting. Absent sufficient evidence to support the complaint’s allegations, we credit the Board’s 
account of the facts. See OML 2014-122; OML 2013-133; OML 2015-8.4 Moreover, agreement 
among public body members or taking action with little discussion is insufficient to support the 
inference that members deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. See OML 2017-168; OML 
2019-113; OML 2014-33. Accordingly, we decline to find that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a noticed meeting.
Although we do not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law here, we take this 
opportunity to remind the Board that the Law’s definition of “deliberation” is broad and includes 
nearly any communication about a matter within the public body’s jurisdiction, even if no
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/opemneeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
opinion is expressed and no action is taken. Therefore, Board members should not discuss 
matters on the agenda for the evening’s meeting prior to the start of the meeting, even if they do 
not express opinions about the matters.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we do not find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
{/£*-<?'
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Hampden Board of Selectmen
Joe Mascaro
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3
