===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 16, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 47 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Sarah Ryan, Clerk 
Zoning Board of Appeals  
Wales Town Hall 
3 Hollow Road 
PO BOX 834 
Wales, MA 01081 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Ryan: 
This office received a complaint from Brian McNally on September 11, 2020, alleging 
that the Wales Zoning Board of Appeals (the “ZBA”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the ZBA on June 30, and the ZBA 
responded by letter dated July 13.1 In his complaint, Mr. McNally alleges that the ZBA 1) failed 
to provide “adequate, alternative means” for the public to virtually attend the ZBA’s June 29 
meeting, and 2) permitted certain individuals who were not members of the ZBA to attend the 
meeting in person.2 
Following our review, we find that the ZBA violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
provide access for the public to observe its June 29 meeting. We find no violation with respect to 
the other allegation. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
ZBA’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 The June 29 ZBA meeting included a public hearing. The Division of Open Government’s review concerns 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Numerous laws in the Commonwealth require that 
a public hearing be held before the government takes certain action. The specific procedures for notice and conduct 
of the public hearing are governed by the law requiring the hearing. Therefore, we do not review, and offer no 
opinion on, whether the ZBA complied with the requirements of any separate law governing the particular type of 
public hearing at issue. See OML 2021-15; OML Declination 7-12-18 (Foxborough Board of Selectmen); OML 
Declination 1-25-18 (Rowley Planning Board). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
reviewed the ZBA’s website, including the meeting notice for the June 29 meeting and meeting 
minutes of the June 29 meeting.  
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On June 9 at approximately 12:40 P.M., the ZBA posted a 
notice for its June 29 meeting. The meeting was scheduled to start at 5:45 P.M. with a public 
hearing on “the application of Ray LaBonte of 201 Main St” beginning at 6:00 P.M. On the web 
page where the notice was posted were the following two paragraphs:  
The Zoning Board of Appeals will hold a public hearing on June 
29th, 2020 at 6 PM at the Wales Senior Center.  Please refer to the 
agenda for virtual attendance instructions.  Please be advised; 
“Pursuant to Governor Baker’s March 12, 2020 Order Suspending 
Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §18, 
and the Governor’s March 15, 2020 Order imposing strict 
limitation on the number of people that may gather in one place, 
this hearing of the Wales Zoning Board is being conducted via 
remote participation. No in-person attendance of members of the 
public will be permitted, but every effort will be made to ensure 
that the public can adequately access the proceedings in real time. 
In the event that we are unable to do so, despite best efforts, we 
will post on the Town of Wales website an audio or video 
recording, transcript, or other comprehensive record of 
proceedings as soon as possible after the meeting.” 
The meeting notice itself listed four topics and contained meeting access information, 
including a “GoToMeeting” meeting link and a phone number with an access code for those who 
wished to call into the meeting.   
DISCUSSION 
 On March 10, Governor Charles Baker declared a state of emergency in response to the 
public health emergency created by the outbreak of the 2019 novel Coronavirus (“COVID-19”). 
See Exec. Order No. 591 (Mar. 12, 2020). On March 12, Governor Baker issued an executive 
order temporarily suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting Law during the state of 
emergency. See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 
20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”). The Executive Order temporarily suspends the 
requirements under the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law 
regulations that a quorum of a public body, including the chair, be physically present at the 
meeting location and allows all members of a public body to participate in a meeting remotely.  
 Mr. McNally alleges that the ZBA violated the Open Meeting Law by allowing an 
applicant for a zoning variance and the applicant’s counsel to be present at the hearing that took 
place during the June 29 meeting. The Division of Open Government construes the Executive 
Order as allowing “hybrid” meetings in which a public body conducts its proceedings at a 
physical meeting location while allowing public access through “adequate, alternative” means, as 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
defined by the Executive Order. See OML 2020-100.3 We also construe the Executive Order as 
allowing a public body to invite certain individuals, such as direct participants with a matter on 
the agenda, to attend the meeting in person while requiring other members of the public to access 
the meeting remotely. See OML 2020-159. For this reason, we find that the ZBA did not violate 
the Law when it allowed an applicant and his counsel to attend the June 29 meeting in person, 
without permitting the general public to attend in person. 
 However, we find that the ZBA violated the Open Meeting Law when it did not provide 
adequate alternative means for the public to access the June 29 meeting. The Executive Order 
suspended the requirement that meetings be physically accessible to members of the public, but 
only if a public body provides adequate, alternative means for the public to access its meetings. 
The Executive Order provides that “[a]dequate, alternative means of public access shall mean 
measures that provide transparency and permit timely and effective public access to the 
deliberations of the public body ... [enabling] the public to clearly follow the proceedings of the 
public body while those activities are occurring.” Executive Order at ¶ 1 (emphasis added). 
These measures include “providing public access through telephone, internet or satellite enabled 
audio or video conferencing or any other technology.” Id.  
 The Executive Order includes an exception to the requirement to provide real-time access 
to a public body’s proceedings, but only in cases where, due to economic hardship and despite 
best efforts, a public body is unable to provide real-time access. Id (emphasis added); OML 
2020-67. In these cases, the Executive Order states that “a public body may instead post on its 
municipal website a full and complete transcript, recording, or other comprehensive record of the 
proceedings as soon as practicable upon the conclusion of the proceedings.” Id. The ZBA 
concedes that technical difficulties during the virtual meeting resulted in the public not being 
able to observe the ZBA’s proceedings live; however, the ZBA does not assert that its inability to 
provide real-time access to the meeting was also due to economic hardship. Therefore, we find 
that the ZBA violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to provide real-time access to the June 
29 meeting without showing that the inability to provide real-time access to the meeting was 
despite best efforts and due to economic hardship.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the ZBA violated the Open Meeting Law and 
the Governor’s Executive Order by failing to provide “adequate, alternative access” for the 
public to observe its June 29 meeting. We order the ZBA’s immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law and caution the ZBA that a determination by our Office of a similar 
violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
ZBA. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Brian McNally (via e-mail:  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
