===PAGE 1===
 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 14, 2023 
 
OML 2023 – 108 
 
Brett M. Sabbag 
Norris, Murray & Peloquin, LLC 
315 Norwood Park South 
Norwood, MA 02062 
 
By e-mail only: bsabbag@nmplabor.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Sabbag: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on March 16, 2023, alleging that 
the Greater New Bedford Vocational Technical High School School Committee (the 
“Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Committee on February 6, 2023, and you responded to the complaint, on 
behalf of the Committee, by letter dated March 15, 2023.
1 The complaint alleges that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include sufficient specificity on the 
notice for its January 10 meeting. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the notice for the 
Committee’s January 10 meeting failed to identify the bargaining unit to be discussed in 
executive session; did not include as a topic a litigation matter that was discussed in executive 
session; and failed to list specific items to be designated as surplus equipment. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to identify on the meeting notice the bargaining unit to be discussed in executive session. 
We find that the Committee did not violate the Law in the other ways alleged. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, 
the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the notice, minutes and video 
recording of the Committee’s January 10 meeting.2 
 
  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to 2023.  
2 A video recording of the meeting held on January 10 is available at: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P2r5KBQGZiw. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
The Committee posted notice of a meeting to be held on January 10 at 6:30 P.M. The 
notice listed twelve topics, including “Executive Session Under Chapter 30, Section 21.” 
Beneath this topic heading was the following additional description: “To discuss strategy with 
respect to negotiations with union and non-union personnel.” The notice also included the 
heading “New Business” and beneath that topic “Vote to Designate equipment as Surplus – 
Business Manager.” 
 
On the afternoon of January 10, the District’s legal counsel contacted the Superintendent 
regarding a proposed settlement agreement in a pending litigation matter in the U.S. District 
Court for the District of Massachusetts which required the approval of the School Committee. 
 
During the January 10 meeting, the Committee voted to convene in executive session. In 
executive session, the Committee discussed strategy with respect to negotiations with union and 
non-union personnel, and also discussed the terms of the proposed settlement agreement. During 
the open session portion of the January 10 meeting, the Committee voted without discussion to 
designate unspecified equipment as surplus.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notic
e of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. Id. The list of topics shall 
have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35; OML 2013-39.
3 When reviewing a meeting 
notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting 
notice standing alone. See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155. Rather, we review what was 
actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently detailed to make the 
public aware of the discussion topics. 
 
Publi
c bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One permissible purpose for 
convening in executive session is to “conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations 
with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations 
with nonunion personnel.” G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”). Another permissible purpose 
is to “discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may 
have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair 
so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”). Executive session topics must be described, 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
both in the meeting notice and in an announcement during open session, in as much detail as 
possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 
Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is 
necessary . . . because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would 
conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so 
was proper or improper”). When convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2, a public 
body must identify the specific nonunion personnel that is the subject of discussion, unless 
disclosure would compromise the Board’s negotiating position. See OML 2021-187; OML 2015-
193; OML 2016-70. Similarly, when convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a 
public body must identify the collective bargaining unit with which it will be negotiating or the 
litigation matter it will be discussing, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for 
secrecy. See OML 2019-163; OML 2016-43; OML 2016-12.  
 
The Committee does not dispute that the notice for its January 10 meeting failed to 
identify the name of the bargaining unit or nonunion personnel that it planned to discuss in 
executive session; the notice merely stated “[t]o discuss strategy with respect to negotiations 
with union and non-union personnel.” Nor does the Committee make any claim that disclosing 
the name of the bargaining unit or personnel would have compromised the Committee’s 
negotiating position. Therefore, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include the name of the bargaining unit and/or personnel that was the subject of its 
January 10 executive session discussion. 
 
Next, the complaint alleges that during the executive session on January 10 th
 e 
Committee improperly discussed an additional topic that was not listed on the meeting notice. 
The Committee acknowledges that it discussed the terms of a proposed settlement agreement in a 
pending litigation matter in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts and that 
topic was not listed on the meeting notice, but asserts the topic was not reasonably anticipated by 
the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting. The Open Meeting Law requires that notices 
include a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b) (emphasis added). A public body may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the 
topic was not reasonably anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting. See OML 
2017-2; OML 2013-87. Here, the District’s legal counsel contacted the Superintendent on the 
afternoon of January 10 regarding the settlement; we find no evidence that discussion of this 
topic was reasonably anticipated prior to that time. As such, we find that the Committee did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the notice of the January 10 meeting was insufficiently 
speci
fic with respect to the topic listed as “Vote to Designate Equipment as Surplus – Business 
Manager” as it did not list the specific items to be designated as surplus. During the meeting, the 
Committee voted to designate equipment as surplus. A notice need not include every detail about 
an anticipated discussion; rather, the law requires that a notice list topics with “sufficient 
specificity” so that the public can decide whether to attend the meeting and observe the 
discussion regarding that topic. See 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2018-22; OML 2018-7. We find 
that this specific topic listed on the notice was sufficient to inform the public of the discussion 
held and that, therefore, the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2022-
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
230 (meeting notice that included the topic “Request for Disposal of Town Property – Swansea 
Police Department” was sufficiently specific); OML 2020-125; OML 2014-58. We also note that 
during the January 10 meeting the Committee did not list or mention the specific items of 
equipment being designated as surplus, and the Open Meeting Law did not require it to do so. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to include sufficient specificity in the notice for the January 10 meeting regarding the 
bargaining unit to be discussed during the executive session. We find that the Committee did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged. We order the Committee’s immediate 
and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and caution the Committee that a similar, 
future violation may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
   
   
Carrie Benedon  
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
 
Assisted by Bethany Salah, Legal Intern 
 
cc:
 Patrick Higgins – By email only:  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
