===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 1, 2014 
OML 2014-140 
Douglas W. Helm, Esq. 
Town Counsel 
50 Pleasant Street 
Arlington, MA 02476 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Heim; 
This office received two complaints filed by Christopher Loreti on September 2, alleging 
that the Arlington Board of Assessors (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 The first complaint was originally filed with the Board on June 19, and alleges 
that the Board failed to provide seven sets of meeting minutes within ten days of Mr. Loreti's 
request. The second complaint was filed with the Board on June 24, and alleges that the Board 
held an improper executive session on April 7. The Board responded to both complaints through 
counsel in separate letters dated July 14, following an extension of time granted by our office.2 
Following our review of the first complaint, we find that the Board failed to provide Mr. 
Loreti with meeting minutes within ten days of his request. However, the Board took 
appropriate remedial action in response to the complaint by providing him with the requested 
minutes. With respect to the second complaint, we find that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by meeting illegally in executive session to discuss the dismissal of an employee 
without properly noticing the executive session or citing a valid purpose for holding the 
discussion behind closed doors. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the two complaints 
filed with the Board; the Board's response; and the complaints filed with our office. 
Additionally, we reviewed the notice for and executive session minutes of the Board's April 7 
meeting. 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board posted notice on April 3 for an April 7 meeting. 
The notice listed ten topics, including "Minutes," "Old Business," "New Business," and "Discuss 
Revaluation," but did not list an executive session topic. During the April 7 meeting, the Board 
entered into executive session "to discuss exemptions and abatements and not return." Once it 
had voted to enter into executive session, the Board asked John Speidel, the Director of 
Assessments and an employee of the Board, to leave the room. The minutes of the Board's April 
7 executive session have not been publicly released, so we do not recount them in detail here. 
However, we note that the minutes include only a few brief sentences memorializing the 
discussion, and record no votes. While in executive session, the Board discussed its 
dissatisfaction with Mr. Speidel's work performance. Though no vote was taken, the Board 
agreed to seek Mr. Speidel's resignation or, in the absence of a resignation, commence the 
formal process for tennination. 
On April 16, the Board's Chair entered into a settlement agreement with Mr. Speidel, 
ending his employment with the Town. On June 2, Mr. Loreti sent a request to the Chair seeking 
seven sets of meeting minutes. The Chair was in the hospital at the time and unable to respond 
to the request. Mr. Loreti sent a follow up request to the Chair on June 16. The Chair attended a 
Board meeting that night, and shared the request with the Board. Mr. Loreti filed his complaint 
on June 19. The Board provided Mr. Loreti with the requested minutes in its July 14 response to 
the complaint. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Holding an Illegal Executive Session on 
April 7. 
A. The Board Failed to Properly Notice its Executive Session. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting, and 
include in the notice "the date, time, place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are 
required to list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(1 )(b). We generally 
consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could 
read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 
2012-10.3 If a public body anticipates entering into executive session during a meeting, then it 
must list that executive session topic in its meeting notice, and include all subjects that may be 
revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. See 
G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(b)(3). 
The notice for the Board's April 7 meeting did not list an executive session topic. In its 
response to the complaint, the Board states that its executive session discussion was unexpected 
and not reasonably anticipated in advance of the meeting. Although it may have been 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
permissible to discuss the stated topic - abatements or exemptions - in executive session if it was 
not anticipated 48 hours in advance of the meeting, that is not what was discussed. See OML 
2012-19; OML 2011-32. The Board discussed an employee's dismissal in executive session. 
Discussion of this topic required that the Board provide that employee with written notice 48 
hours before the executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b); 21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). This 
requirement of notice to the subject of the discussion means, in effect, that a proper Purpose 1 
executive session is always anticipated 48 hours in advance of a meeting and must, therefore, be 
listed in the meeting notice. See id4 The Board's failure to do so here violated the Open 
Meeting Law. 
Additionally, we note that the notice listed several topics for open session discussion that 
did not include sufficient detail such that a reasonable member of the public could read the topic 
and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. 940 CMR 29.03(1 )(b). 
For example, the notice included "Old Business" and "New Business." These topics were 
insufficiently detailed to provide the public with any real indication of the nature of the 
anticipated discussions. A boilerplate notice topic such as "Old Business" is vague and does not 
offer the public an understanding of the anticipated topics to be discussed at that particular 
meeting. See OML 2013-14. 
B. The Board Failed to Cite a Proper Executive Session Purpose Prior to Entering into 
Executive Session. 
A public body may enter executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a). One reason is to "comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or special 
law or federal grant-in-aid requirements." ("Purpose 7"). G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7). Prior to 
entering into executive session, the chair must "state the purpose for the executive session, 
stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the 
executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); District Attorney for Northern Dist. v. 
School Committee of Wayland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 (Mass. 2009) ("[a] precise statement of the 
reason for convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting law because that 
is the only notification given to the public that the school committee would conduct business in 
private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or 
improper"). 
During the April 7 meeting, the Board voted to enter into executive session "to discuss 
exemptions and abatements and not return." The Board failed to cite any of the ten executive 
session purposes as the basis for this closed door discussion. It appears that the Board intended 
to cite Purpose 7, to comply with G.L. c. 59, § 60, to discuss exemptions and abatements in 
executive session. However, the Board did not cite either the executive session purpose or the 
enabling statute, or make a "precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session." 
Wayland. 445 Mass. at 567. Additionally, the actual topic discussed—the dismissal of an 
employee—was not mentioned at all by the Board. Therefore we find that the Board failed to 
provide a proper purpose for its executive session, as required by the Open Meeting Law. 
4 The individual to be discussed in a Purpose 1 executive session may waive in writing the 48 hours' notification. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). However, there is no evidence that such a waiver occurred here. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
C. The Board Failed to Provide Mr. Speidel with Notice and the Opportunity to be 
Present During its April 7 Executive Session. 
One of the ten purposes for executive session permits a public body to discuss "the 
reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, 
of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought 
against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The 
law requires that the public body provide the individual who will be discussed during a Purpose 
1 executive session with written notification at least 48 hours in advance. Id. The law also 
affords the individual who is the subject of the executive session a series of rights, including the 
right to request that the session be open; the right to be present; the right to have counsel or a 
representative present to advise the individual who is the subject of the executive session; the 
right to speak; and the right to cause an independent recording or transcription to be made at the 
individual's expense. G.L. c 30A, § 21(a)(l)(i-iv). 
Not only did the Board fail to provide Mr. Speidel with 48 hours' notice of the executive 
session during which it discussed his dismissal, the Board asked Mr. Speidel to leave the room 
prior to beginning its discussion. The Board held a discussion that ended in a decision to seek 
Mr. Speidel's resignation or termination. The Board failed to follow any of the requirements for 
a Purpose 1 executive session. This is a serious violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
As a result of this violation, the Board may not continue to withhold the minutes of the 
April 7 executive session under the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(1) (minutes of an 
executive session may be withheld from disclosure to the public as long as publication may 
defeat the lawful purposes of an executive session, provided that the executive session was held 
in compliance with the Open Meeting Law); OML 2014-42; OML 2014-30; OML 2014-17. The 
Board may continue to withhold the minutes from the general public in whole or in part under 
any applicable exemptions to the Public Records Law or the attorney/client privilege. However, 
as Mr. Speidel had a right to be present during the executive session and to make his own 
independent record of those proceedings, but was denied those rights by the Board, we order that 
complete, unredacted minutes of the portion of the meeting involving the Board's discussion of 
Mr. Speidel be provided to Mr. Speidel within thirty (30) days of the Board's receipt of this 
determination. 
2. The Minutes of the Board's April 7 Executive Session are Insufficiently Detailed. 
Public bodies must "create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). While the minutes must include a summary of the discussions on 
each subject, a transcript is not required. See OML 2014-10; OML 2013-105. Minutes should 
contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. OML 2013-
16; OML 2012-29. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
The minutes of the Board's April 7 executive session have not been publicly released, so 
we do not discuss them in detail here. However, we note that the minutes include only a few 
brief sentences memorializing the Board's discussion. Although the Board asserts that it did 
discuss abatements and exemptions during the executive session, no such discussion is reflected 
in the minutes. Additionally, the minutes offer no reasons or details as to why the Board sought 
Mr. Speidel's resignation. The Board also failed to record any vote confirming its decision to 
seek Mr. Speidel's resignation. The minutes should have included a more complete summary of 
the Board's discussion and a roll-call vote reflecting the action taken by the Board. Its failure to 
do so violated the Open Meeting Law. 
3. The Board Failed to Provide Minutes within Ten Days of a Request. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that the "[mjinutes of all open sessions shall be created 
and approved in a timely manner. The minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether 
approved or in draft form, shall be made available upon request by any person within ten days." 
G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(c). 
Mr. Loreti submitted a request for seven sets of open session meeting minutes on June 2. 
The Board did not provide the meeting minutes until July 14—24 days after he filed his first 
Open Meeting Law complaint. We understand that the Board Chair was in the hospital when 
Mr. Loreti made his request. While we recognize that the Board did not intentionally ignore Mr. 
Loreti's request, the Board is still obligated to timely respond to minutes requests, even when 
specific staff or Board members may be unavailable. Although the Board failed to timely 
provide minutes in response to a request, we find that the Board took appropriate remedial action 
in response to the complaint by providing Mr. Loreti with the minutes he requested. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by meeting illegally in executive 
session to discuss the dismissal of an employee without properly noticing the executive session 
or citing a valid purpose for holding the discussion, and without providing the employee with the 
rights guaranteed to him by G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(a)(1). Additionally, the Board failed to provide 
Mr. Loreti with meeting minutes within ten days of his request. The Board acknowledged these 
violations in its July 14 response to the complaint. However, we find these violations to be 
serious in nature. We order the following: 
1) Immediate and future compliance by the Board with the Open Meeting Law. We caution 
the Board that a similar future violation may be considered evidence of an intentional 
violation of the Law. 
2) Review by each member of the Board of the Attorney General's training video on 
executive sessions, available at the Attorney General's website 
(www.mass. gov/ago/openmeeting). Each member must certify, using the attached form, 
his or her compliance with this order within 30 days following the Board's receipt of this 
determination. 
5 
===PAGE 6===
3) That, within 30 days after receiving this determination, the Board provide to Mr. Speidel 
a copy of the portions of the minutes describing the Board's discussion of Mr. Speidel 
from the April 7 executive session. 
With the issuance of this determination, we now consider this matter closed. Please 
contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincere! 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Arlington Board of Assessors 
Chris Loreti 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
6 
===PAGE 7===
Certification of Compliance with Order 
I, , hereby certify that I have read the Attorney General's 
(print name) 
determination number OML 2014-140 and, pursuant to the order therein, I have reviewed the 
training video on executive session, available at the Attorney General's website. 
Member, Arlington Board of Assessors Date 
7 