===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www, mass.gov/ago 
August 21, 2017 
OML 2017-130 
Edward J. Richardson, Esq. 
Leahy & Richardson 
339 Washington Street, Suite 203 
Dedham, MA 02026 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Richardson: 
This office received a complaint from Caroline Ahdab, dated July 5, alleging that the 
Pepperell Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 8, and the Board responded by 
letter dated May 19. In her complaint, Ms. Ahdab alleges that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by: (i) posting an insufficiently detailed meeting notice, and (ii) deliberating 
outside of a noticed meeting.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice and minutes of the 
Board's April 10 meeting and notices of Board meetings held on January 9 and 30, February 27, 
and March 3. We spoke with the complainant by telephone on July 11, Finally, we reviewed an 
e-mail from the Board's legal counsel dated August I.3 
We find the facts as follows. Fhe Board is a three-member public body, thus two 
members constitute a quorum. On March 3, the town administrator met with all three Board 
members, along with their respective spouses, at Mariano's Restaurant in Pepperell. Following 
the meal. Board members, their spouses, and the town administrator attended a fundraiser. At no 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 The complaint also alleges that a decision regarding the RECC impacts the town's finances and therefore should 
have been considered at a Town Meeting rather than at the Board of Selectmen meeting. We decline to review this 
allegation because, even if true, this claim would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
FACFS 
§§ 18-25. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
time was town business discussed. On March 11, the town administrator attended a breakfast 
event with Board member Melissa Tzanoudakis. On April 8, the town administrator attended a 
breakfast event with Board member Roland Nutter. 
The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on April 10. The notice included three 
"Action Items": 
•  Discussion: Regional Emergency Communications Centers ­ Beverly Woods, Jay 
Donovan, NMCOG 
•   Annual Town Meeting Warrant ­ review and approve 
•   Discussion and Action: Dedication of Annual Town Report 
The acronym "NMCOG" stands for Northern Middlesex Council of Governments. 
During the April 10 meeting, the Board discussed the Regional Emergency Communications 
Center and voted unanimously to authorize the town to join the Northern Middlesex Regional 
Emergency Communications Center District. 
DISCUSSION 
I. Notice of the Board's April 10 Meeting was Sufficiently Specific. 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Accordingly, a public body must post notice 48 hours in 
advance of a meeting and include the date, time, and location of the meeting, and "a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). Those topics must be listed with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of 
the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). Generally, "sufficient 
specificity" requires that a reasonable member of the public could understand the anticipated 
nature of the discussion based on the notice. See OML 2017-62; OML 2015-35.4 
The complaint alleges that the Board's April 10 meeting notice was not sufficiently 
detailed because it failed to indicate that the Board anticipated voting to authorize the town to 
join the Northern Middlesex Regional Emergency Communications Center District. The notice 
of the Board's April 10 meeting indicated that the Board would discuss the Regional Emergency 
Communications Center, and included the names of two individuals. The notice also indicated 
that the individuals were associated with NMCOG.5 We have found in prior determinations that, 
even where the topic notice does not indicate that a vote will take place, the possibility of a vote 
is reasonably foreseeable. See OML 2016-160; OML 2015-66; OML 2012-75. Here, the vote to 
authorize the town to join the Northern Middlesex Regional Emergency Communications Center 
District flowed naturally from the Board's discussion of the posted topic. See OML 2016-160; 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 The Attorney General discourages the use of acronyms on meeting notices where uncommon acronyms may be 
confusing to the public. See OML 2015-154; OML 2015-116. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
OML 2016-150; 2014-102. Accordingly, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.6 
II, The Board Did Not Deliberate Outside of an Open Meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law requires all meetings of public bodies to be open to members of 
the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). The Open Meeting Law defines a "meeting" as "a deliberation 
by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
"Deliberation" is, in turn, defined as, "an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business 
within its jurisdiction." Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is generally a 
simple majority of the members of the public body. Id. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Board members violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a noticed meeting prior to the April 10 Board meeting. While the town 
administrator, who is not a Board member, met with individual Board members on two occasions 
at breakfast events, this did not constitute deliberation between or among a quorum. Further, we 
have not been provided with evidence that any discussion of public business took place at these 
breakfast events. While all three Board members were present at the March 3 dinner, the Board 
members deny that any discussion of public business took place. Absent sufficient evidence to 
the contrary, we credit a public body's version of the facts. See OML 2017-93. We therefore 
find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to this allegation. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
cc; Pepperell Board of Selectmen 
Caroline Ahdab 
6 The complainant alleges that it is the Board's standard practice to indicate on meeting notices when the Board 
intends to make a decision or take an action on a particular topic. We acknowledge that, where a body typically 
indicates that a vote will take place, the absence of such an indication on a notice may be confusing for members of 
the public. However, in the present circumstances we find that the Board complied with the Open Meeting Law's 
requirements. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevir 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 
===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 