===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
May 13, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 99 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Jonathan Simpson 
Associate Town Counsel for the Town of Brookline 
jsimpson@brooklinema.gov  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Simpson: 
 
This office received a complaint from Carolyn Thall on September 11, 2023, alleging that 
a subcommittee of the Brookline Pierce School Building Committee (the “Committee”) violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was filed with the Committee on 
May 19, 2023, and, after an extension of time granted by this office, you responded on behalf of 
the Committee by letter dated July 10, 2023. The complaint alleges that the Committee 
established a subcommittee called the Educational Working Group, and that the Educational 
Working Group and its leadership held 13 meetings in 2021 for which notices were not posted 
and minutes were not created.
1   
 
Following our review, we find that the Educational Working Group was not a public 
body subject to the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open 
Meeting Law complaint; the Committee’s response with exhibits; the request for further review; 
a document entitled “John R. Pierce School Preliminary Design Program” (the “Preliminary 
Design Program”), dated June 15, 2021; a document entitled “Questions from the Advisory 
Committee regarding the Pierce building project with Answers provided,” dated May 18, 2023; a 
video recording of the Committee’s January 28, 2021, meeting;
2 and further response and 
 
1 The complaint references meetings held on the following dates in 2021: February 23, March 1, 2, 9, and 18; April  
6, 13, 21, and 29; and May 2, 6, and 13. In its response, the Committee notes that the Preliminary Design Program 
document, from which the Complainant learned of these meetings, listed meetings for May 2 and May 11 in error 
and failed to list a meeting held on May 3.  
2 Recordings of the Committee’s meetings can be found at https://www.brookline.k12.ma.us/Page/2463. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
information provided by the Committee at the request of our office. We also communicated with 
Town Counsel via email.3  
 
As an initial matter, we note that the Committee asserts that the complaint was un timely 
filed with the Committee. Based on the information before us, we agree that the complaint was 
untimely with respect to the allegation that the Educational Working Group and its leadership 
failed to post meeting notices. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4); OML Declination 
2-8-22 (Milton Select Board) (“When reviewing the timeliness of a complaint we consider when 
the action that is alleged to have violated the Open Meeting Law was reasonably discoverable, 
not when an individual complainant became aware of the action or of the requirements of the 
Open Meeting Law.”).
4 However, because the Open Meeting Law imposes a continuing 
obligation on public bodies to maintain minutes of all meetings, see G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a), we find 
that the complaint is not untimely with respect to the allegation that meeting minutes of a public 
body were not created. See OML 2020-69; OML 2019-133; OML 2018-115; OML 2013-45. 
Therefore, we find it necessary to determine whether the Educational Working Group was a 
public body subject to the Open Meeting Law such that it was required to create and maintain 
meeting minutes.
5  
 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and individuals acting as public 
body mem
bers. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Law defines “public body” as “a multiple-
member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative 
branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or 
otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law 
defines “subcommittee” as including “any multiple-member body created to advise or make 
recommendations to a public body.” Id. When determining whether a multiple-member entity is 
a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, there are three factors we consider:  
 
1) w
hether the entity is “within” government and not excluded from the definition of 
“public body;”  
2) whether the entity is a “body” empowered to act collectively; and  
3) whether the entity serves a “public purpose.”  
 
See OML 2019-135; OML 2017-118; OML 2016-102; OML 2012-20; OML 2011-42; OML 
2010-1. 
 
In the
 past, our office has declined to apply the Open Meeting Law to advisory groups 
that are structured essentially as focus groups because they fail the second prong of the public 
 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website,  
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 Because we ultimately find that the meetings complained of were not meetings subject to the Open Meeting Law, 
we do not formally address the Committee’s assertion that the notes included in the Preliminary Design Program 
constitute meeting minutes. However, we take this opportunity to clarify that the notes would not satisfy the Open 
Meeting Law’s requirements regarding meeting minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a) (Meeting minutes must set forth “the 
date, time and place [of the meeting], the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, 
a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”). 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
body analysis in that they are not bodies empowered to act collectively. See O ML 2011-42; 
OML 2012-20; OML 2023-206; OML 2023-231. Additionally, we have consistently found that 
groups of employees who work together to carry out their job duties, which groups lack a fixed 
membership and are not empowered to take collective action, are not public bodies subject to the 
Open Meeting Law. See OML 2023-174; OML 2022-56; OML 2015-41. Similarly, we have 
explained that government agencies and municipal departments and their employees are not 
public bodies subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML Declination 11-2-15 (Massachusetts 
Division of Marine Fisheries); OML Declination 4-13-20 (Town of Plymouth); OML 
Declination 3-26-21 (City of Boston). 
 
The 
complaint relates to the development of the educational plan for the Preliminary 
Design Program. Although the Preliminary Design Program references an “Educational Working 
Group” and an “Educational Visioning Group,” we understand, based on all of the information 
before us, that these terms did not refer to distinct groups with set memberships, but rather 
referred to a series of workshops hosted by David Stephen of New Vista Design, one of the firms 
hired to work on the school building project. Workshops convened on February 23, March 1, 
March 9, and March 18, 2021, were comprised of various school administrators, teachers, and 
parents who had been invited to provide input regarding specific topics related to the educational 
plan. Although the workshops included some consistent attendees, the list of attendees changed 
from workshop to workshop depending on the topics to be addressed.  
 
Additionally, as part of the educational plan development process, two larger forums 
were held to receive additional input. One was held on March 2, 2021, and was open to the 
general public. Notice for the March 2, 2021, forum was posted to the Town’s website. The 
second forum was held on April 13, 2021, and was open to all Pierce School faculty. 
 
 Finally, t he remaining meetings listed in the complaint, which the complaint attributes to 
the Educational Working Group’s “Leadership” team, were meetings convened by Principal 
Lesley Ryan Miller, who also served as a voting member of the Committee, for purposes of 
assisting her in developing the educational program. Attendees at these meetings also included 
Helen Charlupski, Co-chair of the Committee; school and other municipal employees; and 
employees from two of the firms hired to work on the school building project.
6 
 
Based on the information before us, we find that there was no multiple-member body 
called the “Educational Working Group,” but rather that this term referred to the series of 
workshops and forums discussed above, which were akin to focus groups. Additionally, we find 
that there was no Educational Working Group “Leadership” team and that the meetings 
 
6 The Complainant asserts that the membership of the Educational Working Group and Leadership team included a 
quorum of the Committee. In support of this assertion, the Complainant cites to the list of individuals included on 
pages 141 and 227 of the Preliminary Design Program. We understand the list included on page 141 to be a list of 
some of the individuals who participated in the “visioning” process and note that the majority of these individuals 
are employees of the school, municipality, or one of the outside firms hired to work on the building project. Of the 
individuals listed, approximately six, less than a quorum, are voting members of the Committee. Likewise, the 
majority of the individuals listed on page 227 of the Preliminary Design Program  are employees of the school, 
municipality, or one of the firms working on the building project. Additionally, of the individuals included on this 
list, only three are voting members of the Committee.     
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
attributed to that team were meetings convened by the principal and composed primarily of 
school and municipal staff.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the meetings at issue in the complaint were not 
meetings subject to the Open Meeting Law and therefore there is no obligation under the Open 
Meeting Law to create minutes for these meetings. We now consider the complaint addressed by 
this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that 
may be pending with the Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at 
(617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Bernard Greene, Co-chair, Pierce School Building Committee  
(via email: bgreene@brooklinema.gov)  
Helen Charlupski, Co-chair, Pierce School Building Committee  
(via email: helen_charlupski@psbma.org) 
Ben Kaufman, Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@brooklinema.gov) 
 Carolyn Thall (vie email: )  
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
