===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
March 6, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 43 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Robert J. Moriarty, Jr. 
Chair, Topsfield Zoning Board of Appeals 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Chair Moriarty: 
 
This office received a complaint from Katherine Carlson on August 25, 2023, alleging 
that the Topsfield Zoning Board of Appeals (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about July 18, and 
you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated August 3.  The complaint 
alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently specific notice 
for a meeting held on June 27.
2   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting 
an insufficiently specific notice for its July 27 meeting.  In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed 
with our office requesting further review.  In addition, we reviewed the notice and open session 
minutes of the Board meeting held on June 27. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board posted notice for a meeting to take place on June 
27 at 7:00 p.m.  Among other matters, the notice included the following three topics: “252 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2023. 
2 The complaint also alleges that the Board routinely posts insufficient notices for its monthly meetings.  Complaints 
must allege violations with a degree of specificity; our office will not conduct broad audits based on generalized 
allegations.  See OML 2014-119; OML Declination 8-12-20 (Uxbridge Board of Selectmen).  Furthermore, to be 
timely, a complaint must be filed within 30 days of the date of the alleged violation, or if the violation could not 
reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have been 
discovered.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4).  Therefore, we limit our review to the notice for the Board’s 
June 27 meeting, as that is the only meeting notice specifically identified in the complaint.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Rowley Bridge Rd – Public Hearing Continued,” “202 Boston St. – Public Hearing,” and “10 
High St. – Public Hearing.”  The notice did not include any additional details regarding those 
three topics, though at top the notice included the statement “Meeting documents for Public 
Hearings can be found on the Town website,” with a link to the town’s website.   
 
The Board held a meeting on June 27 as scheduled.  During the 252 Rowley Bridge Road 
public hearing, the Board discussed at length conditions for a special permit for Connemara 
House Farm, an event venue, in particular with regard to volume and other restrictions on music 
during events.  During the 202 Boston Street public hearing, the Board discussed at length a 
special permit for the Topsfield Fairground, in particular with regard to allowing overnight 
camping at a SoulFest event.  Finally, during the 10 High Street public hearing, the Board 
discussed parameters for a proposed Chapter 40B affordable housing project. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.  
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 
hours in advance, and include the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a “a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b).  The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  A public body need not list each 
and every detail about a topic, nor anticipate on the notice the course of deliberation or the 
outcome of a discussion. See OML 2022-98; OML 2020-132; OML 2019-134.
3  However, 
notice topics must be described with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting so that the public can make an informed decision about 
whether to attend the meeting in order to observe an anticipated discussion.  See OML 2023-86; 
OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22; OML 2015-74. 
 
The complaint alleges that the notice for the Board’s June 27 meeting was insufficiently 
specific with respect to the three open session topics for which the notice merely listed an 
address along with “Public Hearing,” without additional description.  We agree and find that the 
notice with respect to these topics was insufficient.  See, e.g., OML 2023-182 (finding a planning 
board’s meeting notice insufficiently specific when it listed a property address but “failed to 
include any detail as to the specific type of plan or permit under consideration with respect to 
this property”).  The complainant asserts that when she contacted the Board for clarification, she 
was told to look at the town website for more information on the hearing.  Indeed, the Board 
states in its response that the meeting notices routinely list only the address of each property to 
be discussed and that interested individuals can view the Board’s webpage on the town website 
to find documents related to each matter, including “
the legal notice sent to abutters which 
provides a succinct summary of the property issue to be presented...”  Although we acknowledge that 
additional detail about each of the three public hearings was available online, and find no intention to 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
conceal information from the public, the meeting notice itself must contain the level of specificity 
that the Open Meeting Law requires. See OML 2022-199 (“the meeting notice itself must contain all 
information that the Open Meeting Law requires; posting attachments does not cure an otherwise 
defective notice.”); OML 2020-31 (finding meeting notice insufficient when required information 
was included within a meeting packet but not on the meeting notice itself); OML 2019-22.  Here, at a 
minimum, the meeting notice should have described the nature of each of the three public hearings.  
By failing to include any information other than a property address, we find that the Board violated 
the Open Meeting Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently specific notice for its June 27 meeting.  We order the Board’s 
immediate and future compliance and caution that a finding of a similar future violation may be 
considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Dear  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Katherine Carlson (via e -mail: ) 
Topsfield Zoning Board of Appeals (via e-mail: zoning@topsfield-ma.gov) 
 Topsfield Town Clerk (via e- mail:
 bwillis@topsfield-ma.gov) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
