===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www. mass .go v/ago 
May 5,2014 
OML 2014-45 
Gregg Corbo, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch St. 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meetin2 Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received a complaint from Robert Belbin (the complainant) dated October 18, 
2013 alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by the Carver Zoning 
Board of Appeals (the Board). The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 19, 
2013, and the Board responded to the original complaint by letter dated September 13, 2013. 
The complaint specifically alleges that discussions among members of the Board prior to the 
start of a meeting were deliberations in violation the Open Meeting Law. The complaint also 
alleges that the Board failed to provide copies of the documents discussed during the alleged 
deliberations at issue here. 
In resolving this complaint, we reviewed the August 19, 2013 complaint filed with the 
Board; the Board's September 13, 2013 response; and the October 18, 2013 request for further 
review filed with this office. We also reviewed correspondence dated September 30, 2013 and 
March 14, 2014, which was sent by counsel for the Board to our office, and the enclosed 
attachments, which included Board member Walter Collins' explanation of events as well as the 
documents at issue in this complaint.1 Finally, we reviewed a video recording of the Board's 
meeting held on August 15, 2013, and spoke by telephone with the complainant and with counsel 
for the Board in January 2014. 
Following our review, we do not find sufficient evidence that the Board improperly 
deliberated, and thus find no violation of the Law. Furthermore, we find that any possible 
violation was remedied by the actions of the Board during the meeting at issue in this complaint. 
Finally, as the complainant's remaining allegation concerns compliance with the Public Records 
Law, rather than the Open Meeting Law, we refer this matter to the Supervisor of Records within 
the Secretary of the Commonwealth's Public Records Division. 
1 For the purpose of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum. The Board properly posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
August 15, 2013. Prior to the start of the meeting, a member of the Board, Walter Collins, 
arrived with certain documents that were to be discussed pursuant to one of the agenda items. As 
he did not have a sufficient number of copies of these documents to distribute to all members of 
the Board , Collins opted to show two fellow Board members the documents pertaining to an 
agenda item for that night's meeting by squatting between them at the Board's table and going 
through them one by one. Words were exchanged among the three members of the Board while 
looking over the documents. After concluding this first discussion, Collins moved on to two 
other members of the Board and a similar interaction occurred. Following this review of the 
documents, Collins, believing the copier machine was then available, exited the room. During 
his egress, his path went near the complainant, who requested copies of the documents as well. 
Collins response is inaudible in the recording but appeared to satisfy the complainant at that 
time. The Board later discussed the documents during the meeting. This complaint followed 
shortly after. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 20 (a)-(b), 21. The Law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 
3OA, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided 
that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. 
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board improperly deliberated regarding 
documents prior to the start of a meeting. The determination whether the actions of the Board in 
this instance constituted deliberation or, as the Board urges, merely the distribution of documents 
that may be discussed at a meeting hinges on the substance of the words exchanged between the 
various members of the Board. Should an opinion of a member of the Board have been 
expressed regarding the documents, the Board would be in violation of the Law. 
The Board denies any improper deliberation occurred and contends that the observed 
conversations were the mere distribution of documents to be discussed at a meeting. Without 
any conclusive evidence to the contrary, we find no violation. We rely on the observation that 
each group of two Board members to whom Collins showed the document did not interact with 
the other during or following each review in such a manner to indicate that more than a 
perfunctory review of the documents to be discussed at the meeting took place. Furthermore, the 
2 
===PAGE 3===
video demonstrates, and the complainant agrees, that as soon as Collins became aware that 
access to the copier was available, the reviews stopped and he left the room to make duplicates. 
Accordingly, we credit the Board's assertion that no expression of opinion occurred during the 
review of the documents and find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
The complainant also alleges that he did not receive the documents at issue following his 
verbal request. This determination concerns only the Board's compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law. The Open Meeting Law states that all documents and exhibits used by a public 
body during an open session meeting "shall be public records in their entirety" and not exempt 
from disclosure pursuant to any of the exemptions to the Public Records Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(e). We find that the Board later used the requested documents during its August 15, 2013 
meeting. See OML 2013-64. Accordingly, we refer this matter to the Supervisor of Records 
within the Secretary of the Commonwealth's Public Records Division for consideration of 
whether the Board complied with the requirements of the Public Records Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. We now 
consider this matter closed. This determination does not address any other complaints which 
may be pending before this office or the Board. Please call this office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Carver Zoning Board of Appeals 
Robert Belbin 
Shawn Williams, Supervisor of Records 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Mark M. Higgins 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 