===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
April 17, 2013 
OML 2013 — 49 
Edward Roderick 
Executive Director 
Yarmouth Housing Authority 
Long Pond Plaza 
534 Winslow Gray Road 
South Yarmouth, MA 02664 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Roderick: 
This office received a complaint from J. Elvio Rodrigues dated January 22, 2013, 
alleging that the Yarmouth Housing Authority (the "Authority") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Authority by Mr. Rodrigues, 
on behalf of the Yarmouth Preservation Committee, on or about December 18, 2012, and you 
responded to the original complaint on behalf of the Authority by letter dated December 26, 
2012.1  In his complaint, Mr. Rodrigues alleges that the minutes from the January 10, 2012 and 
February 14, 2012 executive sessions (the "minutes") were insufficient. 
After reviewing the complaint and the Committee's response, we have decided to resolve 
this complaint by informal action,  in accordance with 940 CMR 29.017(2)(a). We find that the 
Authority violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include sufficient detail in its executive 
session minutes, but took appropriate remedial action in response to the complaint. 
We find that the minutes were not sufficient for purposes of the Open Meeting Law.2  
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate minutes of all 
meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The minutes should contain enough detail and 
accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes 
and have a clear understanding of what occurred. OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. Here, the 
For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
2  These minutes have been released in their entirety to the public. 
0 
===PAGE 2===
original minutes stated, "[a] discussion was held" regarding certain topics, but included little 
detail about the essence of the discussions. See OML 2012-98, footnote 1 ("minutes that reflect 
only that "a discussion was held" regarding a particular topic are not sufficiently detailed to 
allow a person who was not in attendance to determine the essence of the discussion that 
occurred.") 
In a prior determination, OML 2012-98, our office ordered the release of these particular 
minutes after finding that the discussions reflected therein were inappropriate for executive 
session. The minutes were originally drafted by Edward Roderick, Executive Director of the 
Authority. Upon the filing of this complaint, Mr. Roderick revised the minutes to include, to the 
best of his recollection, additional details about the discussion that occurred. While the addenda 
to the minutes are still brief, according to Mr. Roderick they reflect the brevity and generality of 
the discussion that actually occurred.3  During a properly posted meeting on February 12, 2013, 
the Authority approved the addenda to the minutes. 
Although the Authority violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include sufficient 
detail in its executive session minutes, we find that the Authority took appropriate remedial 
action in response to the complaint. We order the Authority's immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that future similar violations may be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the law. With the issuance of this determination, we now consider 
this matter closed. This determination does not address any other complaints which may be 
pending with our office or the Authority. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 J. Elvio Rodrigues 
Yarmouth Housing Authority 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3  While we are satisfied that the addenda were drafted to the best of Mr. Roderick's ability, we remind the Authority 
that, while a transcript is not required, public bodies must maintain accurate minutes of the entirety of their 
deliberations in order to achieve the goal of transparency in the formulation of public policy. See  OML 2012- 19. 
2 