===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
May 23, 2019 
OML 2019-55
Norfolk County Commission 
c/o Francis Hegarty 
Norfolk County Director 
614 High Street, Suite 201 
PO Box 310 
Dedham, MA 02027
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Mr. Hegarty:
This office received a complaint from Richard Kennedy, First Assistant Register of 
Deeds in Norfolk County, on November 23, and a complaint from Marguerite Lee, Second 
Assistant Register of Deeds, on November 28, alleging that the Norfolk County Commission 
(the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaints 
were originally filed with the Commission on or about October 12 and October 16, and you 
responded to the complaints, on behalf of the Commission, in separate letters dated October 
31. Ms. Lee alleges that the Commission posted a revised notice of its October 3 meeting 
within the 48-hour timeframe before the meeting, and that the notice failed to describe the 
subject matters of the executive sessions for the to be reviewed.2 Mr. Kennedy also alleges 
that the Commission failed to timely approve its May 9 executive session minutes.3
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018, unless otherwise specified.
2 Mr. Kennedy alleges that the Commission should have indicated that there were two separate executive 
sessions on July 18.
3 Mr. Kennedy also alleges that the Commission has not “certified” when requested executive session minutes 
were written nor provided the identity of the minutes-taker. Such allegations, even if true, do not allege 
violations of the Open Meeting Law and we therefore decline to review them. See OML Declination 7-2-18 
(Edgartown Planning Board) (“The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law”). Mr. Kennedy also alleges that there a number of violations occurred on October 3, but did not 
provide any specific details, and instead requests this office to conduct an independent review of the process and 
minutes of the Commission’s executive sessions. Our office does not conduct broad audits of public bodies 
based on generalized allegations. See OML 2016-71. Accordingly, we also decline to review these allegations.

===PAGE 2===
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to timely approve its May 9 executive session minutes, but did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law in the other ways alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original 
complaints, the Commission’s responses to the complaint, and the complaints filed with our 
office requesting further review. We also reviewed the original and revised notice and the 
minutes of the Commission’s October 2 meeting. Finally, we reviewed a May 10, 2019, letter 
from Commission counsel to our office.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. On October 3 at 1 P.M., the Commission convened a 
meeting, in part, to review executive session minutes for meetings held on May 2; July 11; 
and July 18. The topic listed on the meeting notice, posted on October 1 at 12:25 P.M., was 
listed as follows:
EXECUTIVE SESSION
3) Pursuant to M.G.L. c. 30A sec 21(a)(7) to comply with, or act under authority of, 
any general or special law specifically M.G.L. c30A sections 22(f) and (g) regarding 
review of executive session minutes, specifically:
i. May 2, 2018
ii. July 11, 2018
iii. July 18, 2018
Following advice of its counsel, on October 2 at 11:06 A.M., the Commission revised 
its notice to add an additional set of executive session minutes to review, its May 9 minutes, 
in light of an Open Meeting Law complaint filed by Mr. Kennedy on September 27, which 
sought their public release. During the October 3 meeting, the Commission reviewed the 
executive session minutes from the listed meeting dates and determined that the matters 
remained ongoing and confidential and thus would not be released. The Commission also 
approved the May 9 executive session minutes. Between May 9 and October 3, the 
Commission held 19 meetings.
DISCUSSION
I. The Executive Session Topic Listed on the Commission’s October 3 Meeting
Notice was Sufficiently Detailed.
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice of a meeting at least 48 
hours in advance of a meeting that contains the date, time and place of such meeting and “a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c 
30A, § 20(b). Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in 
an announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising 
the purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also
2

===PAGE 3===
District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm, of Wavland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] 
precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that 
is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in 
private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or 
improper”).
Ms. Lee alleges that the Commission failed to properly list the executive session topic 
on its October 3 meeting notice because the subject matters of the executive session minutes 
to be reviewed should have been described, and improperly revised the notice within 48 hours 
before the meeting. Mr. Kennedy also alleges that the Commission should have indicated on 
the notice that there were two executive sessions at the July 18 meeting. The executive 
session topic as listed on the original and revised meeting notice contained sufficient detail, as 
it indicated to the public the executive session purpose for which it intended to convene— 
Purpose 7—and specifically listed the meeting dates of the minutes it planned to review for 
public disclosure. This complies with our general guidance to public bodies when conducting 
such a review. See FAQ on Executive Session Minutes.4 Although more information is 
always useful, there is no requirement that the public body describe the subject matters of 
those executive session minutes being reviewed nor indicate that there were two separate 
executive sessions for a particular meeting.
Additionally, we find that the additional set of meeting minutes to be reviewed that 
was added to the notice on the day before the meeting was unexpected and therefore 
unanticipated by the chair at the time of the notice’s initial posting at least 48 hours before the 
meeting. See OML 2018-22; OML 2012-3.5 After reviewing an Open Meeting Law 
complaint filed on Thursday, September 27, the Commission’s counsel informed the 
Commission on Monday, October 2 that the May 9 executive session minutes were at issue 
and advised the Commission to review those minutes at the Tuesday, October 3 meeting. The 
Commission promptly revised the notice accordingly. We therefore find no violation with 
respect to the executive session topic listed on the meeting notice. We note, however, that 
although a public body may consider an unanticipated topic that was not listed in the meeting 
notice, our office strongly encourages public bodies to postpone discussion and action on 
unnoticed topics that are controversial or may be of particular interest to the public. See OML 
2016-23; OML 2012-85.
4 Available at https://www.mass.gov/info-details/ffequently-asked-questions-about-the-open-meeting- 
law#ffequently-asked-questions-about-meeting-minutes-
Can a public body convene in executive session to approve executive session minutes?
Yes, a public body may convene in executive session to review and approve executive session minutes. A public 
body may convene in executive session under the original purpose for the executive session, or it may convene 
in executive session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7) “[t]o comply with, or act under the authority of, any 
general or special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements” (“Purpose 7”), citing to the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 22(f), (g).
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www. mass. gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
II. The Board Failed to Timely Approve its May 9 Executive Session Minutes.
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to create and approve meetings minutes 
in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); 940 CMR 29.11. “Timely manner” means “within 
the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public I
body can show good cause for further delay.” See 940 CMR 29.11; OML 2018-48.
Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next 
meeting. See OML 2014-15; OML 2012-91. The Commission reviewed and approved the 
May 9 executive session minutes on October 3. Between May 9 and October 3, the 
Commission held 19 meetings. Accordingly, we find that the Commission failed to timely 
approve the minutes because they had not been approved within the requisite timeframe of the 
30 days after the meeting. We commend the Commission for pledging to comply with this 
requirement going forward.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to timely approve its May 9 executive session minutes. We find that the 
Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged. We order 
immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements and we caution that similar 
future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Hanne Rush
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Richard  Kennedy, First Assistant Register of Deeds
Marguerite Lee, Second Assistant Register of Deeds 
Nancy Campany, Esq.
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
