===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
April 24, 2017 
OML 2017-64 
Swansea Board of Selectmen 
c/o John McAuliffe 
Swansea Town Administrator 
81 Main Street 
Swansea, MA 02777 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. McAuliffe: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on January 30 alleging that 
the Swansea Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Board on January 11, and 
you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated January 27. The complaint alleges 
that the notice for the Board's January 10 meeting lacked sufficient detail because it did 
not contain i) the address for the Class II license renewal establishment, ii) the address for 
the Marijuana Dispensary, iii) the address for the Junk Car request, iv) the addresses of 
the 350th Anniversary Committee appointees, and iv) the specific amounts of the financial 
wan-ants or the specific businesses being considered for licenses. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's 
response to the complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, 
and the notice of and open session minutes from the Board's January 10 meeting. 
Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on April 12. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On January 6, the Board posted notice with the 
Town Clerk for a meeting to be held on Tuesday, January 10 at 6:30 P.M. The notice 
listed ten topics including "Class II License Renewal - Bettencourt Auto Sales," 
"Presentation - Marijuana Dispensary," "Junk car request," "Appointment - 350th 
All dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
Anniversary Committee" and "New Business" which included financial warrants and 
licenses. 
The January 10 meeting was held as planned. The Board discussed the previous 
denial of a Class II License Renewal to Bettencourt Auto Sales, reviewed a presentation 
from Xiphias Wellness regarding the operation of a marijuana dispensary in Swansea, 
discussed the appeal of a junk car citation that was issued to a resident by the Police 
Department, and appointed three women to the 350th Anniversary Committee. During 
New Business, Board member Robert Marquis advised that he would not be able to 
attend the Massachusetts Municipal Association meeting on January 21, recognized 
Town employee Stacy Moniz for twenty years of service, and announced that he would 
not run for re-election. The Board did not discuss any licenses nor did it discuss the 
financial warrants, but rather just signed them. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must 
be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and 
place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed. Id. The list of topics shall have "sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's 
discussion. See OML 2015-35.2 
The complaint alleges that the Board's January 10 meeting notice lacked 
sufficient detail in that it did not provide addresses for certain agenda items. With respect 
to the Class II License Renewal, the Junk Car Request, and the 350th Anniversary 
Committee, although including a street address may oftentimes be useful to the public, 
such detailed specificity was not necessary here. The Board provided ample description 
of the topics to be discussed where it listed the specific name of the establishment with 
the specific type of license renewal, listed the name of the individual who made thejunk 
car request, and listed the names of the three individuals being considered for 
appointment to the Anniversary Committee. With respect to the Marijuana Dispensary, 
the Board listed the name of the establishment but could not have included an address as 
a specific location was still under consideration. Accordingly, the Board did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law by omitting addresses from the notice. 
The complaint further alleges that "there are no specifics as to the amounts of the 
Financial Warrants" nor did the Board "list any businesses or persons who are being 
considered for licenses." We find no violation with respect to the sufficiency of these 
topics, which were listed under "New Business" on the January 10 notice, because the 
Board did not discuss the financial warrants or any licenses. When a public body does 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
not actually deliberate on a noticed topic, the public body cannot violate the Open 
Meeting Law with respect to that topic, even if it would have been insufficiently detailed 
had the public body proceeded with its deliberation. See OML 2015-63; OML 2014-81. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This detennination does not address any other complaints that may be pending 
with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if 
you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt 
of a final order. 
3 