===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 3, 2025 
 
OML 2025 – 70 
 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Howard L. Greenspan, Esq.  
Howard L. Greenspan, Attorney at Law 
hgreenspan@greenspanlawyers.com 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Greenspan: 
 
This office received a complaint from Bruce Friedman on behalf of 
OpenCommonwealth.org on February 10, 2025,
1 alleging that the Malden School Committee 
(the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Committee on or about January 24.2 The complaint relates to a request 
Mr. Friedman made to the Committee on January 23 for, among other things, both draft and final 
minutes for two executive session meetings. The complaint alleges that in the Committee’s initial 
response to his request, the Committee failed to acknowledge that Mr. Friedman had specifically 
requested draft minutes and failed to provide him with draft minutes.  
 
 Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint as well 
as Mr. Friedman’s January 23 request for minutes and the Committee’s response to that request. 
 
The Open Meeting Law allows a public body to withhold from the public executive 
session minutes for so long “as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive 
session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). The Open Meeting Law requires that, at reasonable 
intervals, a public body or its chair review the minutes of executive sessions to determine if they 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 It does not appear that the Committee responded to the complaint. We remind the Committee of its obligation to 
respond to all Open Meeting Law complaints within 14 business days, unless it has been granted an extension of 
time by this office. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
may continue to be withheld from the public or if the executive session purpose has been served 
and the minutes must be released. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). In addition to the obligation to review 
executive session minutes at reasonable intervals, when a public body receives a request for 
executive session minutes, it must respond within 10 days and  
 
shall release any such minutes not covered by an exemption under subsection (f); 
provided, however, that if the body has not performed a review pursuant to 
[subsection g](1), the public body shall perform the review and release the non-
exempt minutes, or any portion thereof, not later than the body’ s next meeting or 
30 days, whichever first occurs.  
 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). 
 
 On January 23, the Complainant requested both draft and final minutes for executive 
sessions held on January 6 and January 13. On January 24, the Committee responded, through 
legal counsel, acknowledging receipt of the request for minutes and explaining that the requested 
minutes had not yet been approved and would need to be reviewed to determine if they should be 
released. The response further explained that the Committee would perform the review required 
under section 22(g)(2) at its next meeting or within 30 days, whichever was to occur first. That 
same day, January 24, the Complainant filed the instant Open Meeting Law complaint. The 
Committee’s next meeting following the January 23 request was on February 3.  
 
 At the time the Open Meeting Law complaint was filed with the Committee, the 
Committee still had ten days before it was required to review the executive session minutes and 
release any non-exempt minutes. Therefore, we find no violation where, at the time the 
complaint was filed, the Committee could not have possibly violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged.    
 
 To the extent the complaint assert s that the Committee is required to provide the 
Complainant with both draft and final versions of the January 6 and January 13 executive session 
minutes, we do not agree. The Open Meeting Law requires that in response to a request for open 
session minutes, a public body must provide minutes within 10 days, “if they exist and whether 
approved or in draft form.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Open Meeting Law does not include 
similar language with respect to a request for executive session minutes. Regardless, we construe 
the Open Meeting Law’s requirement with regard to open session minutes as facilitating the 
prompt provision of meeting minutes regardless of whether the minutes are approved or still in 
draft form, and not as obligating a public body to provide drafts of minutes if final approved 
minutes exist. We do not opine, however, as to whether the Public Records Law may require a 
public body to provide draft minutes even if final approved minutes exist. 
 
  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Mayor Gary Christenson, Chair, Malden School Committee (via email: 
mayor@cityofmalden.org) 
Malden School Committee c/o Ariana Langston, Clerk of the Committee  
(via email: alangston@maldenps.org) 
Carol Ann Desiderio, City Clerk (via email: cdesiderio@cityofmalden.org) 
Bruce Friedman, OpenCommonwealth.org (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
