===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
January 30, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 10 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Jennifer Ashley  
Chair, Somerset School Committee  
jennifer.ashley@somersetschools.org 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Ashley: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on December 5, 2024,
1 alleging 
that the Somerset School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about November 
28, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated December 3. The complaint 
alleges that the Committee improperly deliberated prior to the start of the Committee’s 
November 19 meeting.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Committee’s response, the request for further review, and a video recording of the Committee’s 
November 19 meeting.
2 We also communicated with Committee Chair Jennifer Ashley via email 
and telephone.3 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all deliberations of a public body occur during a 
proper
ly noticed meeting that is, unless lawfully convened in executive session, open to the 
public. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20. The Law defines “deliberation” broadly as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18. However, the 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The recording of the November 19 meeting reviewed by this office may be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ni40UQmad9E.  
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Open Meeting Law specifically excludes from the defi nition of “deliberation” “the distribution 
of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting 
[information] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.” Id. 
 
 Based on his review of a video recording of the Committee’s November 19 meeting, the 
Complainant alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law where, immediately 
prior to calling the meeting to order, “[a]ll members of the committee were deliberating and 
having a private conversation pointing to some documents . . . .” In a telephone interview with 
our office, Committee Chair Jennifer Ashley relayed the following relevant information and 
account of events. Chair Ashley and Vice Chair Victor Machado work together to create the 
Committee’s meeting notices and set meeting agendas. Before the start of the November 19 
meeting Chair Ashley received an email from a fellow Committee member explaining that he 
would be late to the meeting and asking that the Committee not discuss certain notice topics until 
he arrived. Thereafter, Chair Ashley, using her cellphone, showed the email to Vice Chair 
Machado and they discussed whether they could rearrange the meeting’s agenda in order to 
accommodate their fellow Committee member’s request. At one point, as Chair Ashley and Vice 
Chair Machado were discussing the meeting’s agenda, another Committee member made a witty 
comment about an unrelated matter; however, Chair Ashley could not recall what the comment 
concerned. 
 
Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s account of the facts. 
See O
ML 2023-121; OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141. Based on the information provided to our 
office by Chair Ashley, we find that the brief discussion that occurred immediately prior to the 
November 19 meeting being called to order was administrative in nature and concerned the order 
in which the Committee would address the topics listed on the notice rather than a substantive 
discussion of any of the topics. Therefore, we find that the discussion fell within the Open 
Meeting Law’s exception to the definition of “deliberation” for procedural information and that 
the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 
2021-112 (emails suggesting notice topics and relaying that board members had registered for a 
virtual conference were not deliberation where they contained mere scheduling and procedural 
information).4  
 
   
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,     
   
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Caitlin Hadala, Somerset Town Clerk (via email: chadala@town.somerset.ma.us)  
Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
