===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 16, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 158 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Bradford L. Jackson, Ed.D. 
Superintendent-Director 
Shawsheen Valley Technical High School 
bjackson@shawtech.org 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Dr. Jackson: 
 
This office received a complaint from Debbie Barnes on March 1, 2022, alleging that the 
Shawsheen Valley Regional Vocational Technical High School Council (the “Council”) violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the 
Council on December 23, 2021, and you responded on behalf of the Council by letter dated 
January 18, 2022.
1  In her complaint, Ms. Barnes alleges that the Council failed to offer a public 
remote access option and failed to accommodate a request from a Council member to participate 
remotely for a meeting held on December 1.
2 3 
 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Council’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  
 
  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 The complaint also alleges that “since at least 2017” the Council has posted “boilerplate agendas” for its meetings.  
Complainants must allege violations of the Open Meeting Law with a degree of speci ficity, as our office will not 
conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations.  See  OML Declination 3-20-12 (Wilmington 
Board of Assessors).  Where the complaint does not identify any particular meeting notices that are alleged to be 
insufficiently specific, we decline to review this allegation. 
3 The complaint also alleges that a Council meeting was posted and then cancelled for an invalid reason.  The Open 
Meeting Law does not impose standards or requirements pertaining to the cancellation of meetings, and therefore 
this allegation, even if true, would not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Council posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
December 1 at 2:30 PM in the School Committee Room at Shawsheen Valley Technical High 
School.  On November 29, a member of the public, who had previously been advised that she 
was not allowed on school property without wearing a facemask, contacted the school 
superintendent to ask whether the Council meeting would be accessible remotely.  The 
superintendent responded that the December 1 meeting would not be accessible remotely, but 
that the member of the public may attend the meeting in person.   
 
On December 1, approximately two-and-a-half hours before the scheduled meeting, the 
Complainant, who is a member of the Council, notified the school principal that she had tested 
positive for Covid-19, and asked how she could attend the meeting virtually.  The principal 
responded that she had not planned for remote access to the meeting and would not be able to 
accommodate the request to join the meeting remotely that afternoon. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the  
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of  
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement  
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except  
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”).  
 
On June 16, 2021, Governor Baker signed into law An Act Relative to Extending Certain 
COVID-19 Measures Adopted During the State of Emergency, Chapter 20 of the Acts of 2021 
(“Chapter 20”).  Section 20 of Chapter 20 extended, until April 1, 2022, the remote meeting 
provisions established in Governor Baker's March 12, 2020, Order Suspending Certain 
Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 20 (“Executive Order”).  Relevant here, the 
Executive Order, and subsequent legislation, suspended the requirement that meetings be held in 
locations that are physically accessible to the public, provided that the public body provide 
“adequate, alternative means” of public access.  Furthermore, as in the Executive Order, Section 
20 of Chapter 20 provided that “a public body may allow remote participation by all members in 
any meeting of the public body and a quorum of the body and the chair shall not be required to 
be physically present at a specified meeting location.” 
 
When all public body members participate in a meeting remotely or when a public body 
meets in person without providing the public physical access to the meeting location, the public 
body must then provide the public with adequate, alternative access to the meeting.  See OML 
2021-79; OML 2020-111; OML 2020-100.4  However, a public body may hold fully in-person 
meetings, as long as access to the meeting includes the opportunity to be physically present, as 
well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 
2020-100.  Although the Executive Order and Section 20 of Chapter 20 allowed public bodies to 
offer “adequate, alternative” means of public access in lieu of holding meetings in locations that 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
were physically open and accessible to the public, we have consistently stated that neither 
provision required that a public body provide remote access to its meetings if those meetings are 
instead held in-person at a location that is open and physically accessible to the public.  See 
OML 2021-148; OML 2021-147; OML  
 
Similarly, the Open Meeting Law has long authorized remote participation by public 
body members.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(d) (“The attorney general may by regulation or letter 
ruling, authorize remote participation by members of a public body not present at the meeting 
location...”); 940 CMR 29.10 (“Remote participation may be permitted subject to the following 
procedures and restrictions.”).  The Executive Order and Section 20 of Chapter 20 further 
authorized all members of a public body to participate in a meeting remotely without requiring 
that a quorum of members be physically present at a meeting location.  However, although the 
Open Meeting Law authorizes remote participation by public body members subject to certain 
procedures, it does not require that a public body utilize remote participation to allow a member 
of the body to participate in a meeting remotely. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Council met in person on December 1, but did not permit 
the Complainant—a member of the Council—to participate in the meeting via remote 
participation.  The complaint further alleges that “[h]ad the Superintendent planned for a remote 
access option when the community member requested it 2 days prior to the meeting, then I 
would not have missed a very important meeting.”  Because the Council’s December 1 meeting 
was held in a location that was physically open and accessible to members of the Council as well 
as members of the public, and the Open Meeting Law does not require that public bodies offer a 
remote access option nor allow remote participation by public body members, we find that the 
Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Debbie Barnes (via e-mail: ) 
Shawsheen Valley Regional Vocational Technical High School Council (via e-mail: 
bjackson@shawtech.org) 
 
 
 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 