===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 10, 2013 
OML 2013-134 
Joseph A. Emerson, Jr., Esq. 
Emerson & Emerson 
33 Whitney Ave 
Westwood, MA 02090 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Emerson: 
This office received an Open Meeting Law complaint from Ralph Blackburn, dated 
February 21, 2013, alleging that the Southeastern Regional School Committee (the 
"Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint 
specifically alleges that the Committee held an improper emergency meeting on May 30, 2012, 
during which the Committee entered into executive session and voted to withdraw a contract 
offer to a teachers union. The complaint was filed with the Committee on or about June 6, 2012. 
The Committee responded to the complaint by letter dated December 13, 2012.1 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
holding an improper emergency meeting on May 30, 2012. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the June 6, 2012 complaint filed with the Committee; the Committee's December 13, 
2012 response; and the February 21, 2013 complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we 
reviewed the open and executive session minutes of the Committee's May 30, 2012 meeting. 
On May 30, 2012, the Committee members attended the Southeastern Regional 
Vocational-Technical Fligh School graduation ceremonies. According to the Committee, prior to 
the start of the graduation ceremonies, teachers began picketing, demanding that action be taken 
on the outstanding collective bargaining negotiations with the teachers union. The complainant, 
who is a member and past president of the union, denies that teachers picketed, stating instead 
that one person handed out leaflets for about twenty minutes prior to the graduation ceremony. 
1 The Committee initially missed the deadline to respond. After being contacted by our office, the Committee 
requested and was granted an extension of time to respond. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
In addition, the complainant's car, which was parked in the school parking lot, displayed a large 
sign which read "Support Southeastern's Students By Supporting Their Teachers." The car was 
towed. 
The Committee felt that the actions of the teachers caused a serious disruption to the 
graduation ceremony. The members therefore convened a meeting at 5:45 p.m., immediately 
prior to the graduation ceremonies, ostensibly to discuss the disruption. The Committee did not 
post notice for the meeting. During the meeting, the School Superintendent requested that the 
Committee enter into executive session "to conduct strategy sessions in respect to collective 
bargaining which arose within the last twenty-four hours and was not anticipated" and reconvene 
in open session to continue the meeting. A Committee member then made the motion, and the 
Committee entered into executive session following a unanimous vote. When the Committee 
reconvened in open session, the Committee instructed the Superintendent to notify the teachers 
union that the Committee had voted unanimously to withdraw its contract offer. 
DISCUSSION 
The complaint alleges that there was no emergency to justify the Committee convening a 
meeting without posting notice. The Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b), states that 
"[ejxcept in an emergency.. .a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours 
prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. In an emergency, a 
public body shall post notice as soon as reasonably possible prior to such meeting." The statute 
defines an "emergency" as "a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances 
demanding immediate action." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a). Purpose 3 allows a public body to enter into executive session to "discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). 
The events that gave rise to the May 30, 2012 meeting were unanticipated by the 
Committee members. The Committee members did not expect to see leaflets or signs regarding 
the collective bargaining negotiations during the graduation ceremony. However, even if the 
Committee felt that immediate action was necessary to protect that evening's graduation 
ceremonies, the action taken during the meeting was not related to that purpose. The 
Committee's only act during the meeting was to enter into executive session under Purpose 3 to 
discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with the teachers. The decision to 
withdraw its contract offer, while prompted by the unexpected events earlier that same day, did 
not necessitate emergency consideration. The Committee should have complied with the regular 
notice requirements, including 48 hours' notice to the public. Therefore, we find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2012-7; OML 2011-45.1 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/opeimieeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by holding a meeting on 
May 30, 2012 without posting proper notice. We order the Committee's immediate and future 
compliance with the Law, and caution the Committee that similar future violations may be 
considered evidence of an intentional violation of the Law. Additionally, we order the 
Committee members to review the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law training video on 
meeting notices, which may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.1 We order that the Committee certify in writing to the 
Division of Open Government, within thirty (30) days of receipt of this letter, that it has 
complied with this order. 
We now consider this matter closed. Please contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jnathan Sclafsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Southeastern Regional School Committee 
Ralph Blackburn 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
1 This video may be found at the OML Trainings and Hearings section of the website, under OML Web Trainings, 
and is labeled Video #2: Meeting Notices. 
3 