===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
September 25, 2023  
 
       OML 2023 – 155 
 
 
Ryan O’Malley  
Chair, Parks & Recreation Committee 
215 Pleasant Street, 4th Floor 
Malden, MA 02148 
 
By email only: romalley@cityofmalden.org 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. O’Malley: 
 
This office received a complaint from Craig Spadafora on September 19, 2022, alleging 
that the Malden Parks and Recreation Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on July 20, 
and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated August 16.  The complaint 
alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by posting notice for a meeting to be 
held on June 28 “which did not contain information on the availability of remote access.”   
 
 We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the 
complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the Committee’s 
amended response to the complaint.  We also reviewed the notice and minutes of the Committee 
meeting held on June 28.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Committee is a subcommittee of the City Council.  All 
three members of the Committee are also City Councilors.  The complainant is also a City 
Councilor and currently serves as President of the City Council. 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2022.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
On June 23, the Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on June 28 at 5:45 
P.M. and the notice stated that the “committee will meet to discuss goals and opportunities for 
improvements to parks and recreation in Malden.  The committee will discuss and reference the 
Open Space and Recreation Plan.”  The notice listed the location of the meeting as City Hall, 
Room #105, 215 Pleasant Street in Malden.   
 
On June 24, Committee Chair Ryan O’Malley
2 posted on Facebook information 
necessary to access the June 28 meeting virtually via Zoom, including a link to the Zoom 
meeting, several telephone numbers the public could use to dial into the meeting, and the 
Webinar ID number required to log into the meeting.  On June 28 at 3:20 P.M., the City Council 
Clerk emailed to all City Councilors a letter from the complainant reminding Councilors that “all 
requests for remote access to Council or Council Committee Meetings must be approved by the 
Council President.”  The letter further stated that “a committee chair should never post a remote 
meeting link without obtaining the authorization of the President. . . . With this in mind, I have 
asked that the remote access link published on Facebook for tomorrow’s Parks & Recreation 
Committee [sic] be disabled.”  
 
The June 28 meeting was held as planned and Committee members were present in Room 
105 of City Hall, the physical meeting location.  Because the remote link had been disabled, the 
meeting was initially not accessible via Zoom.  However, the Zoom link was reactivated and 
members of the public could then access the meeting remotely.  About 15 minutes later, the 
Zoom link was again disabled but Chair O’Malley obtained a new Zoom link and posted this 
new link on Facebook.  Approximately 40 minutes later, the complainant directed the new link to 
be disabled and the meeting was no longer remotely accessible.  During the meeting, the Board 
discussed the open space and recreation plan that expires in 2024 and ways to maintain existing 
parks.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the  
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of  
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement  
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except  
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”).  
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present as well as to 
see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2020-100; 
OML 2018-75; OML 2016-54.3 
 
On June 16, 2021, Governor Charles Baker signed into law An Act Relative to Extending 
Certain COVID-19 Measures Adopted During the State of Emergency, Chapter 20 of the Acts of 
2021 (“Chapter 20”).
 4  Relevant here, Section 20 of Chapter 20 suspended the requirements 
under the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations that a 
 
2 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/t he-
open-meeting-law. 
4 These provisions were extended until March 31, 2025.  See Chapter 2 of the Acts of 2023. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
quorum of a public body, including the chair, be physically present at the meeting location and 
allow
s all members of a public body to participate in a meeting remotely, provided that the 
public body provide “adequate, alternative means” of public access, such as through telephone, 
internet or satellite enabled audio or video conferencing or any other technology that enables the 
public to clearly follow the proceedings of the public body while those activities are occurring.  
See Chapter 20, § 20(b); OML 2021-135.  Section 20 allows public bodies to provide the public 
with “adequate, alternative” access to meetings instead of providing in-person access but does 
not require public bodies to provide “adequate, alternative” access if in-person access is 
provided. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee posted notic
 e for a meeting to be held on June 
28 “which did not contain information on the availability of remote access.”  When all public 
body members participate in a meeting remotely or when a public body meets in person without 
providing the public physical access to the meeting location, the public body must then provide 
the public with adequate, alternative access to the meeting, which requires access to the 
proceedings in real time.  See OML 2020-111; OML 2020-100; Chapter 20, § 20(b).  However, a 
public body may hold in-person meetings without providing a remote access option, as long as 
access to the meeting includes the opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and hear 
what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2021-148; OML 2020-
100; OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54.   
 
The notice here included only one location for the public to access the June 28 meeting, 
in per
son in Room 105 of City Hall, and the physical meeting location at City Hall was 
accessible to any individual who wished to attend the meeting and all members of the Committee 
were present at this location.  We have not been presented with any evidence that a member of 
the public sought to physically attend the June 28 meeting and was denied access or that the 
Committee limited the number of people who could be present in the meeting room.  Compare 
2021-43 (public body violated the Open Meeting Law when it held a meeting in a location with a 
strict 12-person limit and turned away members of the public once the room was at capacity).  
Because we have consistently stated that the Executive Order and Section 20 of Chapter 20 do 
not require that a public body provide remote access to its meetings if those meetings are instead 
held in-person at a location that is open and physically accessible to the public, we find that the 
Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law here where it provided in-person access.  See OML 
2021-147.  We encourage public bodies to provide multiple means of access to their meetings 
when possible and remind public bodies that in the spirit of the Open Meeting Law, they should 
strive to make their meetings as accessible as possible.   
  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate  the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter.   
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Craig Spadafora – By email only:  
John McNaught, Acting City Solicitor – By email only: jmcnaught@cityofmalden.org 
Alicia McNeil, Acting City Solicitor – By email only: amcneil@cityofmalden.org  
 Malden City Clerk – By email only: cdesiderio@cityofmalden.org 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
