===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
 
June 24, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 72 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Timothy Turner 
Agent 
Somerset Conservation Commission 
tturner@townofsomerset.org 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Agent Turner: 
 
This office received two complaints from Patrick Higgins on March 13, 2026, alleging 
that the Somerset Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The first complaint (“First Complaint”) was filed with the 
Commission on or about February 2
1 and alleges that the Commission violated the Open 
Meeting Law when the Chair failed to announce that the Commission’s January 27 meeting was 
being recorded. The second complaint (“Second Complaint”) was filed with the Commission on 
or about February 26 and alleges that the Commission failed to timely review and respond to the 
First Complaint. You responded to both complaints by email dated March 13.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaints, the Commission’s response to the complaints, the request for further review, and the 
public access television recordings of the Commission meetings held on January 27 and March 
2.
2 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2026. 
2 A recording of the Commission meeting held on January 27 can be found here: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wlBKk8JM2zY&. A recording of the March 2 meeting can be found here: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yiH5_4xSoOY.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We Find that the Commission Violated the Open Meeting Law When the Chair 
Failed to Announce that the Meeting Held on January 27 was being Recorded. 
 
Pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, and after informing the Chair, any person may make 
a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a public body or may transmit the 
meeting through any medium. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). An individual’s ability to record is 
subject to the reasonable requirements of the chair as to the number, placement, and operation of 
equipment. Id. At the beginning of the meeting, the chair shall inform other attendees of any 
recordings. Id. The requirement that the chair inform attendees of any recording includes any 
recording made by the public body itself, including those made for public broadcasting or 
administrative purposes, such as assisting in the drafting of meeting minutes. See OML 2023- 
154; OML 2020-159; OML 2013-136.3  
 
Here, the Commission held a meeting on January 27, which was broadcast live and 
recorded by Somerset Access Television. During a meeting held on March 2, the Chair of the 
Commission acknowledged that she did not announce at the beginning of the January 27 meeting 
that the meeting was being recorded. After reviewing a video recording of the January 27 
meeting, we agree that the Chair did not announce that the meeting was being recorded. As such, 
we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
We note that we have previously stated that a prominent sign may satisfy the requirement 
that the chair notify attendees of a recording and relieve the chair from making a verbal 
announcement at the start of the meeting. See OML 2016-155 (prominently displayed sign that 
reads “This meeting is being recorded” satisfied notification requirement); OML 2022-198 
(noting that where public body regularly records or broadcasts its own meetings, notification 
requirement is satisfied by prominently displayed sign that informs attendees about recording); 
OML 2013-136 (same). Cf. OML 2019-129 (finding that wall sign did not satisfy notification 
requirement).  
 
II. We Find that the Commission Violated the Open Meeting By Failing to Timely 
Respond to an Open Meeting Law Complaint. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, within 14 business days of receiving a complaint, a 
public body must “meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if 
appropriate; and send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action 
taken.” 940 CMR 29.05(5); G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). In addition to its duty to respond to the 
complainant, the public body must also notify the Attorney General that “it has sent such 
materials to the complainant and shall provide the Attorney General with a copy of the 
complaint, the response, and a description of any remedial action taken.” 940 CMR 29.05(5); 
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b).  
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Here, the First Complaint was filed with the Commission on or about February 2. 
However, the Commission did not respond to the complaint until March 13, 28 business days 
later. While we acknowledge that the Commission discussed both complaints during its March 2 
meeting, including reviewing the complaints’ allegations and discussing remedial action, the 
Commission did not send a response to the complainant nor notify the Attorney General in the 
timeframe required by the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05. As 
such, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely respond 
to the First Complaint.4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to announce that the January 27 meeting was being recorded and by failing to 
respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint in the timeframe required by the Open Meeting 
Law. We order the Commission’s immediate and future compliance with the Law and caution 
that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law.  
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Commission 
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
Assisted by Andrew Guay, Legal Intern 
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
 Somerset Conservation Commission (via email: ksmigel@townofsomerset.org) 
Somerset Town Clerk (via email: chadala@townofsomerset.org) 
Somerset Town Administrator (via email: jdasilva@townofsomerset.org) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
4 If a public body needs additional time to respond to an Open Meeting Law Complaint, it may request an extension 
of time, for good cause, by submitting a written request to the Division of Open Government. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5)(b). 
