===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
May 16, 2017 
OML 2017-78 
John Foskett, Esq. 
Caroline Thibeault, Esq. 
Deutsch Williams 
One Design Center Place, Suite 600 
Boston, MA 02210 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Foskett: 
This office received a complaint from Linda Alexson on March 20, 2017, alleging that 
the Ipswich School Committee (the "School Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the School Committee on or 
about December 29, and you responded, on behalf of the School Committee, by letter dated 
January 19, 2017. In her complaint, Ms. Alexson alleges that the School Committee failed to 
timely post notice of its December 29 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the School Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the School 
Committee's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the notice and minutes of the School Building Committee's 
December 29 meeting, as well as the School Committee's notice of the December 29 meeting. 
We find the facts as follows. The Town website is the official notice posting location 
for its public bodies. The School Building Committee planned a meeting for December 29 to 
review and decide on a design plan for a proposed elementary school, posting notice of this 
meeting on December 22. The notice listed the following topics on the issue: "Review and 
discuss building and site plans," "Vote to approve plan for PSR," and "Certify PSR vote." 
According to the minutes, "PSR" refers to "Preferred Schematic Report." 
' All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016, unless otherwise indicated. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
Three of the seven School Committee members serve on the School Building 
Committee. An additional School Committee member also planned to attend, which thus 
constituted a quorum of the School Committee. Because it appeared that a quorum of the 
School Committee would attend the meeting, the School Committee submitted its own notice 
of this meeting to the Town Clerk on December 27, which listed the same topics as the School 
Building Committee.2 The notice indicated that it was a joint meeting with the School 
Building Committee.3 The Town Clerk's office was closed on the day of posting due to a 
clerical union holiday. Accordingly, an employee for the School Committee posted notice of 
the date and time of the joint meeting on the Town website, but was unable to include the list 
of anticipated topics. That morning, a hard-copy of the notice was also posted on the front 
door of the Town Hall, as well as the lobby of the Superintendent's office. The notice was 
posted on the School District website, as well. When the Town Clerk returned on December 
28—a day before the meeting—the notice was uploaded to the Town website, which added the 
anticipated discussion topics to the prior posting on the Town website. The joint meeting 
went forward as planned, during which the School Committee and the School Building 
Committee voted to adopt a design plan for a proposed elementary school. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to 
post notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies 
are required to list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise 
the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2015-
35.4 
The complaint alleges that the School Committee failed to post notice of its December 
29 meeting at least 48 hours before the meeting. The December 29 meeting was a joint 
meeting of the School Building Committee and the School Committee. Despite its efforts to 
post copies of the notice in other locations, the School Committee failed to post sufficient 
notice of this meeting because the notice posted to the official notice location—the Town 
website—did not include the anticipated discussion topics at least 48 hours before the 
meeting. Accordingly, we find that the School Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
Because the School Building Committee did post notice of its meeting in time, and because of 
the School Committee's various efforts to notify the public of the meeting, we decline to 
consider an order to nullify any votes taken during the meeting. 
2 We remind the School Committee that the use of acronyms that are not widely understood by the public should 
be avoided. See OML 2015-154. 
3 The School Building Committee's notice did not indicate that the meeting would be jointly held with the 
Committee. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
http://www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the School Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to properly post notice of its December 29 meeting. We order the 
School Committee's immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we 
caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the School Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Linda Alexson 
Ipswich School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 