===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 16, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 - 87 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Fred Dupere, Esq. 
Dupere Law Offices 
94 North Elm Street, Suite 307 
Westfield, MA 01085 
 
 
 RE: 
Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Dupere: 
This office received a complaint from Craig Swinson, on April 1, 2020, alleging that the 
Richmond School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on February 15, and your 
office responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated March 5.1 In his complaint, Mr. 
Swinson alleges that the Committee’s agenda item “Superintendent’s Report” was not 
sufficiently detailed to inform the public of the substantive discussion that took place at the 
Committee’s February 11 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to 
the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed the 
Committee’s February 11 meeting notice and meeting minutes. Finally, we corresponded by 
email with you on July 8 and 9.  
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On February 7 at approximately 10 a.m., the Committee 
posted notice for a February 11 meeting which included the agenda item “Superintendent’s 
report.” “Superintendent’s report” is a recurring topic at Committee meetings during which the 
Superintendent provides status updates to the Committee. These updates are generally not pieces 
of business that Committee members discuss or on which they take action. In the case of the 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
February 11 meeting, the Chair had no prior knowledge of the topics Superintendent Dillon 
would raise.  
The Committee met on February 11 as scheduled. During the “Superintendent’s report” 
portion of the meeting, Superintendent Dillon updated the committee on two topics, the art 
room’s air quality and an asbestos issue. First, Superintendent Dillion informed the Committee 
that there was still an odd smell in the art room. As a result, air quality testing would be 
performed, and the outside wall was resealed. Second, Superintendent Dillon gave the 
Committee an update on the Asbestos Hazard Emergency Response Act (“AHERA”) program 
review. He informed the Committee that there is likely no asbestos problem, just a lack of 
documentation, as the building has been remodeled and, in any event, all asbestos would be 
sealed and therefore no children would be at risk. Furthermore, any potential fines would be 
offset and would go to help fund any follow-up assessment. The Committee did not take any 
action on either of these items. The Committee then moved on to other topics.  
DISCUSSION 
 The Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A , § 20(b), states in relevant part that, “a public body 
shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting ... Notice shall be 
printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time and place of 
such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.” Public bodies must list reasonably anticipated topics in a meeting notice with 
“sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to include 
sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2017-186.2 
 In prior determinations, whe n a meeting notice has included as a topic a report or 
presentation from a person who is not a member of the public body, such as “Superintendent’s 
Report” or “Administrator’s Report” or “Report from Department Heads,” we have declined to 
find a violation of the Open Meeting Law for lack of specificity where the public body chair did 
not anticipate the specific nature of the deliberations that took place. See OML 2018-33; OML 
2017-90. Nonetheless, we have encouraged public body chairs as a best practice to solicit from 
public officials more detail regarding the topics to be discussed at the public body’s meeting 
under a “report” item and include on the meeting notice more detail regarding the precise matters 
to be discussed. See OML 2020-44. 
 Here, the Superintendent updated the Committee on two topics, air quality in the art room 
and the AHERA program review. As the Chair was not aware of what the Superintendent 
intended to report to the Committee ahead of the meeting, the Committee was not required to 
include more detail on its meeting notice. Therefore, we find no violation of the Open Meeting 
Law. However, the Committee committed in its response to include more detail on future notices 
when a significant topic will be addressed under the Superintendent’s report. We commend the 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Committee for working with the Superintendent to ascertain what topics will be discussed during 
his report, and include those topics on meeting notices.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Chase 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Craig Swinson (via e-mail:  ) 
 Richmond School Committee c/o Chairperson Dewey Wayatt (via e- ma il: 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
