===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
March 23, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 54 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Dan Caplinger  
North Adams Airport Commission 
   
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Caplinger: 
 
This office received a complaint from Gerrit Blauvelt on June 28, 2021. The complaint 
was originally filed with the North Adams Airport Commission (the “Commission”) on or about 
May 28, 2021, and the Chair of the Commission responded on behalf of the Commission by 
letter dated July 21, 2021. The complaint alleges that the Commission formed a Planning 
Advisory Committee (the “Planning Committee”) to assist in updating the North Adams Airport 
Master Plan and that the Planning Committee failed to comply with the Open Meeting Law. 
 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this matter. 
Following our review, we find that the Planning Committee is not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law and therefore could not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Commission’s response, the 
request for further review, information provided to our office in the course of our investigation, 
and several sets of meeting minutes from 2018 to 2022. We also communicated with the City 
Administrator, Angie Lopes Ellison, and with Commission member Dan Caplinger1,2 by phone 
and email on several occasions, as well as with the Complainant via email. 
 
 
 
 
 
1 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
2 Mr. Caplinger currently is a member of the Commission and previously served on the Planning Advisory 
Committee, though he was not a member of both bodies concurrently. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. At some point the City of North Adams (the “City”) 
engaged Stantec Inc., a private engineering firm, to update the North Adams Airport’s master 
plan (the “Master Plan”). As part of its process for updating the Master Plan, Stantec decided that 
a Planning Advisory Committee should be created to provide feedback to Stantec. As it was 
unfamiliar with the local aviation community, Stantec asked the Commission to name volunteers 
to the Planning Committee. After asking for volunteers to serve on the Planning Committee at an 
earlier meeting, the Commission, during its January 15, 2019, meeting, appointed the following 
individuals to serve on the Planning Committee: Dan Caplinger of the Greylock Flying Club; 
Michael Milazzo of T & M Motors; Mark Candiloro of Turbo-Prop East; Marc Morandi from the 
Airport Commission; Michael Canales, Administrative Officer for the City of North Adams; and 
Bill Greenwald, Field Project Manager of the Airport. These individuals represented various 
interests and expertise from within the local aviation community.  
 
The Planning Committee met three times: June 4, 2019; March 2, 2020; and July 22, 
2020. Each meeting was scheduled and conducted by Stantec. Before each meeting, Stantec sent 
the members of the Planning Committee the chapters of the Master Plan that would be discussed 
at the upcoming meeting. During each meeting, staff from Stantec gave a presentation on the 
chapters scheduled for review. After the presentation, members of the Planning Committee asked 
any clarifying questions they had about the materials presented. Stantec staff then walked the 
group through the chapters section by section, soliciting feedback on each section as they went. 
The Planning Committee did not take any votes. Rather, each member of the Planning 
Committee, representing particular interests from within the local aviation community and 
offering particular expertise, provided their individual feedback. From there, Stantec decided 
what, if any, feedback to incorporate into the draft updated Master Plan.  
 
Stantec regularly updated the Commission regarding the updated Master Plan during the 
Commission’s meetings. The Planning Committee did not make any presentations to, or 
otherwise directly advise, the Commission. At various times the Commission voted to post the 
latest version of the updated Master Plan to the City’s website for the public to view. At its 
January 18, 2022, meeting the Commission voted to approve a final addendum to the updated 
Master Plan, thereby finalizing the Master Plan.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A threshold question raised by any alleged violation of the Open Meeting Law is whether 
the entity complained of is a “public body” subject to the Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting 
Law defines “public body,” in relevant part, as “a multiple-member board, commission, 
committee or subcommittee within . . . any county, district, city, region or town, however 
created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose.” G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18. Thus, to be a public body for the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, the entity 
must be (i) “within” government and not excluded from the definition of “public body”; (ii) a 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
body empowered to act collectively; and (iii) charged to serve a public purpose. See, e.g., OML 
2010-1; OML 2020-52.3  
 
In the past, our office has declined to apply the Open Meeting Law to advisory groups 
that fail the second prong of the public body analysis. For example, we concluded that the 
Department of Early Education and Care Provider Working Team was not a public body for 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, even though it was “within government” and served a 
“public purpose,” because the group “has no quorum requirement – [staff] meet with and solicit 
feedback from whichever members show up to meetings.” OML 2011-42. Here, we find that the 
Planning Committee shares certain qualities with the Care Provider Working Team. Although 
the Planning Committee had a defined membership, and therefore a quorum could be calculated, 
it did not act collectively. The Planning Committee never took any votes or issued any collective 
advisory opinion to Stantec or the Commission; rather, the meetings were opportunities for 
members of the Planning Committee to efficiently provide their individual feedback and 
expertise to Stantec which then decided whether to incorporate any such feedback into the 
updated Master Plan it would present to the Commission. Therefore, based on the specific facts 
of this case, we find that the Planning Committee was not a body empowered to act collectively. 
 
Because we find that the Planning Committee was not a body empowered to act 
collectively, we do not herein analyze whether the Planning Committee satisfied the first and 
third prongs of our public body analysis. We conclude that the Planning Committee was not a 
public body subject to the Open Meeting Law and could not have violated the Open Meeting 
Law. We note that transparency with respect to the updated Master Plan was preserved where 
Stantec regularly updated the Commission, a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, 
regarding the updated Master Plan; various versions of the updated Master Plan were posted to 
the City’s website; and the Commission made its decisions regarding the updated Master Plan 
publicly during its posted meetings.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Planning Committee is not a public body 
subject to the Open Meeting Law and therefore did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We now 
consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does 
not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Commission. Please 
feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 
cc: Gerrit Blauvelt (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
