===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
April 2, 2019 
OML 2019-26
Joshua Coleman, Esq.
Murphy, Lamere & Murphy, P.C.
50 Braintree Hill Office Park, Suite 202 
Braintree, MA 02184-8807
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Coleman:
This office received a complaint from Attorney Jillian Ryan, on behalf of the Whitman 
Firefighters, IAFF Local 1769, on October 9, 2018, alleging that the Whitman Board of 
Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaint was originally filed by Attorney Mark Macchi with the Board on or about July 24, 
2018, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, in a letter dated September 
4, 2018. In his complaint, Mr. Macchi alleges that, during its July 10, 2018, meeting, the 
Board discussed a topic that was not listed on the meeting notice.
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notice, minutes and a video-recording of the Board’s July 10, 2018, meeting.1 
Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on February 28, 2019.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board held a meeting on July 10, 2018, to discuss, 
in part, a review of the annual budget and the Town’s travel and expense policy. Both topics 
were listed on the meeting notice, posted initially on July 5, 2018, as “Budget Review” and 
“Policies & Procedures: Travel & Expense Policy.” The Board discussed the status of the 
annual budget before turning to other topics, including the Town’s travel and expense policy. 
At the end of the discussion concerning the travel and expense policy, Chair Carl Kowalski 
stated that something had been “rattling around” in his head regarding the Town’s budget. He
o
1 The video-recording is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cXjZWkygfK0

===PAGE 2===
asked the Fire Chief, who was present in the audience, whether the Town could save money 
by “outsourcing the ambulance service,” noting that he would like to see an assessment when 
the Fire Chief meets with the Board concerning the budget for his department. The Fire Chief 
briefly responded to Chair Kowalski’s comments before the Board moved on to other topics. 
Chair Kowalski did not anticipate raising this topic during the meeting, but rather the Fire 
Chiefs presence in the audience unexpectedly elicited his comments.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). To that end, a public body must post notice of 
every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal 
holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” Id. The listing of topics shall have 
sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). Public bodies may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting 
notice if the topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting, 
however, we encourage public bodies to postpone discussion of such topics until proper 
notice can be given to the public. See OML 2017-51; OML 2013-87; OML 2013-13.2
The complaint alleges that the Board discussed the privatization of the Town’s 
ambulance services during its July 10, 2018, meeting even though it was not listed as a topic 
on the meeting notice. The Board responds that, just after having discussed a potential 
moratorium on out-of-state travel as part of its review of the town’s travel and expense policy, 
and as part of the Board’s larger discussion of the Town’s budget, Chair Kowalski noticed the 
Fire Chief sitting in the audience and raised an issue that had “been rattling around in [his] 
head” regarding the cost of the Town’s ambulance services. We find that this topic, although 
not specifically listed on the meeting notice, fit within the Board’s larger budget discussion, 
listed on the notice as “Budget Review,” as Chair Kowalski asked the Fire Chief to come 
prepared to discuss the issue when he meets with the Board in the near future concerning the 
annual budget for his department. See OML 2014-58; OML 2014-44 (public body not 
required to anticipate course of deliberation).
Furthermore, absent evidence to the contrary, although the topic had been “rattling 
around” in his head, we credit the Board’s account that the topic was unanticipated by Chair 
Kowalski for discussion at this meeting. See OML 2017-2 (no violation where the chair did 
not anticipate discussing a topic at a particular meeting). Accordingly, the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law by pursuing a brief discussion with the Fire Chief regarding 
this topic. See OML 2017-126; OML 2013-190 (A public body may consider a topic at a 
meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice if it is a topic that the chair did not 
reasonably anticipate at least 48 hours before the meeting). However, we remind the Board 
that the Attorney General strongly encourages public bodies to postpone discussion and action
2 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
on topics that may be of particular interest to the public if those topics were not listed in the 
meeting notice. See OML 2013-61.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Hanne Rush
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Jillian  Ryan, Esq., Pyle Rome Ehrenberg PC
Whitman Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
3
