===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
   
       August 6, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 120 
 
 
Alexandra H. Kalkounis 
City Solicitor 
Law Department  
455 Main Street  
Worcester, MA 01608  
 
By email only: KalkounisA@WorcesterMA.gov 
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Kalkounis: 
 
This office received a complaint from Nicole Apostola on March 19, 2025, and a 
complaint from Stephen Quist on April 2, 2025, alleging that the Worcester City Council 
Standing Committee on Education (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.  Mr. Quist’s complaint was originally filed with the Committee on February 11, 
2025, Ms. Apostola’s complaint was originally filed with the Committee on February 12, 2025, 
and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, to the complaints by separate letters dated 
March 5, 2025.
1  The complaints allege that the Committee deliberated outside of a properly 
posted meeting to draft a statement supporting LGBTQIA+ youth, families and educators.  
 
 Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
way alleged.  At the outset, we note that we do not review, and offer no opinion on, the 
substance of the Committee’s communication, but rather review only whether the Committee 
communicated in a manner that violated the Open Meeting Law.  In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed the original complaints, the Committee’s responses to the complaints, and the 
complaints filed with our office requesting further review.  In addition, we reviewed the notice, 
 
1 We note that the “response” to the complaint merely indicated that the complaint would be referred to another 
committee for review, but no further response was received by the Division thereafter.  We remind the Committee 
that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 days of receipt of a complaint, the public body review the 
complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the 
complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
minutes and video recording of the City Council meeting held on March 11, 2025.2  Finally, we 
communicated with you between July 23 and July 29, 2025. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Committee is a subcommittee of the City Council and 
consists of three Council members; thus, the Committee is a three-member public body with two 
members constituting a quorum.  The Committee considers “matters pertaining to public 
education, the public libraries, arts, culture and higher education.”  Rules of the Worcester City 
Council, Appendix B (B). 
 
On or about February 7, 2025, the Committee issued the following statement:  
 
Worcester City Council’s Education Standing Committee Affirms Our 
Commitment and Support for LGBTQIA+ Youth, Families, and Educators 
 
As the Worcester City Council’s Education Standing Committee members, who 
have each individually dedicated and commit decades of our work to our youth and 
families as educators, youth workers and a social worker, we know the importance 
of this moment to stand by our LGBTQ+ especially trans youth, their families, our 
city staff, our Division of Youth Opportunities and Worcester Public School staff 
who are LGBTQ+ members themselves or allies invested in ensuring a safe 
educational environment for their LGBTQ+ students.  
 
According to the 2021 Youth Health Survey, conducted by Worcester’s City 
Division of Public Health reported that students who identified as gay, lesbian, or 
bi reported nearly 3 times more than their heterosexual peers that they felt sad or 
hopeless, 4 times more likely to intentionally hurt themselves and 4 times more 
likely to seriously consider suicide. According to a 2022 report from The Trevor 
Project, more than 1 in 4 LGBTQ youth have experienced homelessness or 
housing instability at some point in their lives. This is more than twice the rate of 
non-LGBTQ youth. The rates of violence and harm our LGBTQ+ youth are 
experiencing are exponentially increasing due to the current political climate and 
national anti-trans rhetoric. 
 
Just earlier today, our Massachusetts’ Department of Elementary and Secondary  
Education issued a statement supporting all students, including LGBTQ students, 
“School and district leaders are strongly encouraged to continue implementing 
policies and practices that protect all students, including transgender and nonbinary 
students.”  
 
In this moment, when the LGBTQ+ community, specifically our trans, nonbinary, 
and gender diverse members, are being targeted by the federal government under 
the Trump administration is not a moment we water down our commitment. This is 
 
2 A video recording of the City Council meeting held on March 11, 2025, is available at 
https://play.champds.com/worcesterma/event/2655. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
the moment, we have to actively affirm our most vulnerable community, providing 
the necessary attention, resources, and care to protect their right to education 
without fear, hate, or discrimination. 
 
Committee member Thu Nguyen drafted the above statement and then forwarded the 
statement to a staff member.  The staff member sent the draft statement to Committee Chair Etel 
Haxhiaj who reviewed and approved the statement.  Thereafter, the statement was sent, 
according to the City Solicitor, “to the standard media list” and published. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
beration and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may 
be discussed at a meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For the 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public 
body.  Id.   
 
The complaints allege that the Committee must have deliberated outside of a properly 
posted meeting to draft the statement.  Here, the statement was drafted by Committee member 
Nguyen and then sent to a staff member.  This individual communication between one 
Committee member and a staff member, who is not subject to the Open Meeting Law, did not 
constitute improper deliberation as the communication, at that point, did not involve a quorum of 
Committee members.  See OML 2023-208; OML 2020-71.
3  However, the draft statement was 
then sent to Chair Haxhiaj, thus reaching a quorum of the Committee.  A public body may not 
engage in a serial communication whereby a quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous 
manner outside of a meeting, on a particular subject matter within the public body’s jurisdiction.  
See OML 2013-27; McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that private 
serial communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to 
circumvent the intent of the law).  Moreover, the Commission may not use a non-member, such 
as a staff member, to facilitate a deliberation outside of a meeting.  See District Atty. for the 
Northern Dist. v. School Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 569-71 (2009); OML 2018-150; 
OML 2013-186; OML 2012-105.  Because the Committee has broad authority over matters 
pertaining to public education, the statement, which advocated support for LGBTQ+ students 
and pledged a safe educational environment for those students, clearly falls within the 
Committee’s jurisdiction.  See OML 2023-152 (“Even if the Council has no direct oversight or 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
authority over the Police Department, it nonetheless has broad authority to set policy and to set
the goals for the Town Manager, and its jurisdiction is similarly broad."); OML 2022-37 ("Here,
even if the Board does not have ultimate authority to appoint or approve the appointment of the
Director of Public Health, a discussion of the qualifications and suitability of the candidates for
Director of Public Health, the person who would head the Department of Public Health which in
turn carries out the Board's directives, is a discussion that by its nature involves the Board's
exercise of governmental business, policy, and administration."); OML 2021-12 (finding that
email which expressed "moral support" for Town Manager was a matter within the Select
Board's jurisdiction as the Select Board, as the town's executive authority, has broad jurisdiction
over matters of policy in a town); OML 2020-160 (finding that MBTA Fiscal and Management
Control Board had broad authority over MBTA and its General Manager such that a discussion
of whether and how to advise the General Manager on a significant issue facing the MBTA
clearly fell within Board's jurisdiction); OML 2014-148 ("Because issues relating to a new
restaurant opening in town could conceivably come before the Board, we find that this
discussion was within the Board's jurisdiction and should have taken place during an open
meeting.") We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside
of a properly posted meeting where the draft statement contained the opinion of Member Nguyen
and was shared with and then reviewed and approved by Chair Haxhiaj, thus reaching a quorum
of members. Jurisdiction of a public body is not so limited as to include only matters requiring a
vote. See OML 2020-160. Moreover, the expression of an opinion of one public body member
on matters within the body's jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if
no other public body member responds. See OML 2016-104; OMIL 2015-33.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law
when a quorum of members deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting. We order the
Committee's immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that
similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the
Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Keny lume Kilangue
KenyAnne Kilcoyne
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
Nicole Apostola - By email only:
4
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 Stephen Quist – By email only:  
Worcester City Council Standing Committee on Education c/o Chair Etel Haxhiaj – By 
email only: HaxhiajE@worcesterma.gov 
Worcester City Clerk – By email only: clerk@worcesterma.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 