===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
  
 October 30, 2020 
       
       OML 2020 – 137 
 
 
Cherry Karlson 
Chair, Wayland Board of Selectmen 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
 
By e-mail only:  
 
 RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Karlson: 
 
This office received a complaint from George Harris on January 8, 2019, alleging that the 
Wayland Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 13, 2018, and former Board 
Chair Lea Anderson responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated November 27, 2018.
1  
The complaint alleges that the notices for the Board’s October 15, 2018, and October 29, 2018, 
meetings are insufficiently detailed and that the minutes of the October 15, 2018, meeting are 
insufficiently detailed. 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.
2  Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting notices for its October 
15 and October 29, 2018, meetings that provided insufficient detail with respect to an open and 
executive session topic to be discussed.  We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the other ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review.  We also reviewed the notices and open session minutes of the Board’s 
October 15, 2018, and October 29, 2018, meetings, the executive session minutes of the Board’s 
 
1 Lea Anderson was Chair of the Board when this complaint was filed on November 13, 2018.  While Ms. Anderson 
is still a member of the Board, Cherry Karlson is now Chair of the Board.   
2 The parties engaged in mediation pursuant to 940 CMR 29.05(9), which concluded unsuccessfully in December 
2019. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
October 29, 2018, meeting, and video recordings of both meetings.3  Finally, we spoke with the 
complainant by telephone on March 28, 2019, and February 12, 2020.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  In September 2016, the Board signed a Memorandum of 
Agreement with the Wayland Public Employee Committee (“PEC”) regarding changes to health 
insurance benefits.  The Committee represents the Wayland Teachers Association, Retirees, 
Police Officers Union, Library Association, Food Service Association, Educational Secretaries 
Association, Department of Public Works Association, Custodians and Maintenance, Firefighters 
and Paramedics Association, and Municipal Employees Association. 
 
In March 2018, the Board began discussing the adoption of a Select Board/Town 
Manager Special Act which would professionalize the structure of the Town’s government; 
coordinate administrative, operational and financial functions; provide a consistent approach for 
efficiency, effectiveness, and transparency across all departments and boards; use resources 
effectively; improve legal and regulatory compliance; and maintain volunteer opportunities.   
 
The Board duly posted notice of a meeting to be held on October 15, 2018, at 7:00 P.M.  
The notice listed thirteen topics, including “Special Act Working Session: Review feedback from 
boards and committees, Discuss next steps” and “Town Administrator’s Report.”  Under the 
topic of “Town Administrator’s Report,” the notice listed five sub-headings, one of which was 
“Draft of letter to Raytheon.”    
 
The October 15, 2018, meeting was held as planned.  The Board discussed the feedback 
and comments it received from other public bodies in Wayland with respect to the Town 
Manager Special Act.  The Board stated some public bodies have not sent any feedback yet and 
discussed whether the article could go forward at Annual Town Meeting.  The Board decided to 
table a lengthier discussion for a future meeting.  During the Town Administrator’s Report, the 
Board discussed a letter drafted by member Cherry Karlson to Raytheon, which requested a 
Licensed Site Professional opinion on the Town’s ability to repurpose an area of land once 
occupied by Raytheon for a Council on Aging and Community Center.  Town Administrator 
Louise Miller suggested that Ms. Karlson be the point person with Raytheon.  
 
The Board duly posted notice of a meeting to be held on October 29, 2018, at 7:00 P.M.  
The notice listed fifteen topics, including “Special Act: Next Steps” and “Town Administrator’s 
Report.”  Under the topic of Town Administrator’s Report, the notice listed four sub-headings  
including “Letter to Raytheon.”  The notice also listed an Executive Session under Purpose 2 “to 
discuss negotiations with all bargaining units pursuant to the PEC agreement.”   
 
The October 29, 2018, meeting was held as planned.  With respect to the Special Act, 
Chair Lea Anderson stated that she created a tentative schedule of things that still need to be 
worked on and suggested that she meet with Town Counsel and the Town Administrator after all 
feedback has been received.  During the Town Administrator’s Report, Board Member Cherry 
 
3 Video recordings of the October 15 and October 29, 2018, meetings are available at 
https://www.waycam.tv/government-on-demand. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Karlson stated that she is still waiting for Raytheon to get back to the Town with comments on 
the draft letter. 
 
At the conclusion of the open session topics, Chair Anderson moved to enter into 
executive session under Purpose 2 “to discuss negotiations with all bargaining units pursuant to 
the PEC agreement.”4  The Board approved a unanimous vote by roll call to convene in 
executive session and announced that it would reconvene in open session following the executive 
session only for the purpose of adjourning.  Chair Anderson stated that having such discussions 
in open session would be detrimental to the Board’s negotiating or bargaining position.  During 
the executive session, the Town Administrator requested that the Board reopen collective 
bargaining with all municipal and school unions to discuss health insurance.  Ms. Karlson 
explained that the Public Employee Committee was “established several years ago to negotiate 
health insurance with all unions at the same time.”  The Board discussed the possibility of 
offering high deductible plans and authorized the Town Administrator to reopen negotiations 
with all bargaining units pursuant to the PEC agreement.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened.  G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.   
 
I. The October 15 and October 29, 2018, Meeting Notices Lacked Sufficient 
Detail with Respect to an Open Session Topic. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and that every 
notice include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  A public body is 
required to list topics on a notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of 
the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(1)(b).  We generally consider a topic 
sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand 
the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35.5  When reviewing a 
meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a 
meeting notice standing alone.  See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155.  Rather, we review what 
was actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently detailed to make 
the public aware of the discussion topics. 
 
 
4 During a November 19, 2018, meeting, the Board reviewed the October 29, 2018, meeting minutes and agreed to 
amend the minutes to reflect that the Board convened in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, rather than 
Purpose 2. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
The complaint alleges that the October 15 and October 29, 2018, meeting notices are 
insufficiently detailed with respect to the “Special Act” topic listed on each notice.6  Here, the 
discussions pertained to the Town Manager Special Act and the Board’s review of feedback it 
had received from other Wayland public bodies with respect to the Act.  The Board states that it 
had discussed this Act at numerous meetings prior to October 15 and October 29, 2018, that 
certain of those notices only identified the topic as “Special Act” and that the Board “has not 
been notified at any time” that this topic was insufficient.7  Yet, we find that the Board also 
identified this topic in several different ways on its notices over the course of several months, 
including “Town Organization,” “Special Act on Town Manager,” and “Draft Town 
Administrator Act.”8  Although the notice topic as listed might have been meaningful to Board 
members and regular Board meeting attendees, it was potentially unclear to members of the 
public unfamiliar with the ongoing matters before the Board.  See OML 2013-55.  We therefore 
find that this topic as listed on the notices for the October 15 and October 29, 2018, meetings 
was insufficient where the Board failed to include additional detail as to the specific nature of the 
Special Act and therefore the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.   
 
II. The October 15, 2018, Minutes are Sufficiently Detailed. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  When reviewing minutes for 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy 
requirement.  See OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64.  By substantial compliance, we mean that the 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See 
OML 2012-106.   
 
The complaint alleges that the October 15, 2018, meeting minutes are insufficient 
because they are “opaque as to the nature and substance of the Special Act.”  To be “accurate,” 
meeting minutes must accurately reflect the discussions that took place during a meeting.  See 
OML 2020-62.  Because the minutes must accurately capture the discussions that actually took 
place, it is inappropriate to include information in meeting minutes that was not discussed at a 
meeting.  After reviewing the video recording of the Board’s October 15, 2018, meeting, we find 
that the approved open session minutes provide an accurate and sufficiently detailed summary of 
the discussions that occurred.  See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55 (while minutes must include a 
summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes do not 
need to include every remark or opinion presented).  Here, the Board did not explain the meaning 
of the Special Act but simply discussed the feedback it had received from other public bodies.  
 
6 The complaint also alleges that the October 29, 2018, meeting notice was insufficiently detailed with respect to the 
“Letter to Raytheon” topic under “Town Administrator’s Report.”  However, by e-mail dated October 22, 2020, the 
complainant withdrew this allegation.  As such, we do not review this portion of the complaint.  
7 See the notices for Board meetings held on June 25, 2018, and August 17, 2018. 
8 See the notices for Board meetings held on March 26, 2018, May 23, 2019, June 4, 2018, June 11, 2018. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Accordingly, we find that the Board’s minutes complied with the requirements of the Open 
Meeting Law.   
 
III. The October 29, 2018, Meeting Notice Lacked Sufficient Detail with 
Respect to the Executive Session Topic.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law.  G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a).  Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also 
District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] 
precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is 
the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and 
the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”). 
 
Executive Session Purpose 2 allows a public body to enter executive session to “conduct 
strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2). 
Executive session Purpose 3 allows a public body to enter executive session to “discuss strategy 
with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.”  G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a)(3).  When convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2 or Purpose 3, a 
public body must identify the collective bargaining unit with whom it will be negotiating, if 
doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy.  See OML 2018-139; OML 2016-
43; OML 2015-87.   
 
The complaint alleges that the executive session topic listed on the October 29, 2018, 
meeting notice lacked sufficient detail where it did not include the specific collective bargaining 
units with whom the Board would be negotiating regarding the PEC agreement, and that “the 
public would not comprehend the meaning of the PEC agreement.”  Here, the meeting notice 
stated that the Board would convene in executive session under Purpose 2 to discuss negotiations 
with “all bargaining units” pursuant to the PEC agreement and Chair Anderson’s announcement 
stated that the Board would be negotiating with “all bargaining units.”  For the reasons explained 
in OML 2020-129, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law with regard to 
the sufficiency of its October 29, 2018, meeting notice where it identified negotiations with “all 
bargaining units.”  See also OML 2019-114 (meeting notice should list the specific unions to be 
discussed or specify that all unions would be discussed); OML 2012-68. 
 
However, we find that the notice was not sufficiently detailed where “PEC” was an 
acronym not widely understood by members of the public.  Our office discourages the use of 
abbreviations or acronyms in notices that are not widely understood by members of the public.  
See OML 2016-5 (finding that “PILOT” is not a widely understood acronym); cf. OML 2015-
172 (concluding that “FAA” is a widely understood acronym).  Here, we find that the acronym 
”PEC” is not one that members of the public are likely to understand, and thus its use here 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
violated the Open Meeting Law.  However, we note that, in subsequent notices, the Board has 
referred to the agreement as the “Public Employee Committee” agreement and we commend the 
Board for taking such remedial action in response to the complaint.   
 
Finally, the Board’s strategy discussions regarding health insurance under the “PEC 
agreement” was appropriate for executive session, although the Board did not cite the correct 
executive session purpose.  The Board cited Purpose 2 to justify its executive session, which 
permits the Board “to conduct collective bargaining sessions.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2). 
However, the Board was not engaging in collective bargaining, but rather discussing its strategy 
with respect to collective bargaining.  The Board should have cited Purpose 3, to “discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3).  The Board violated the  
Open Meeting Law by failing to cite in its notice, and by the chair incorrectly announcing the 
proper executive session purpose for the October 29, 2018, meeting.  See OML 2016-64.  Since 
the Board has released the October 29, 2018, executive session meeting minutes, we order no 
additional relief.  See OML 2014-150. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
providing insufficient detail in its October 15 and October 29, 2018, meeting notices.  We order 
immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future 
violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
  
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  George Harris – By e-mail only:  
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
