===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 27, 2014 
OML 2014-5 
David Martel, Esq. 
Town Counsel 
Doherty, Wallace, Pillsbury and Murphy, P.C. 
One Monarch Place 
1414 Main Street, 19th Floor 
Springfield, MA 01144-1002 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Martel: 
This office received a complaint from Board member Palmerino Santaniello, dated 
October 7, 2013, alleging that the Longmeadow Select Board (the Board) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or 
about August 30, 2013, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated September 18, 
2013. In his complaint, Mr. Santaniello alleges that immediately following its August 5, 2013 
meeting the Board engaged in deliberation outside of a properly posted open meeting. 
We reviewed the August 30, 2013 complaint; your September 18, 2013 response to the 
complaint; and the October 7, 2013 complaint filed with our office requesting further review. 
Additionally, we reviewed the minutes from the Board's meetings held on August 5, 2013; 
August 14, 2013; September 9, 2013; and September 14, 2013. Finally, we spoke individually, 
by telephone, with Board members Marie Angelides, Mark Gold, Alex Grant and Mr. 
Santaniello. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Board is a five member public body. The Board 
held a meeting on August 5, 2013. After the meeting adjourned, the Board members dispersed to 
walk to their cars. Board member Mark Gold and Town Manager Stephen Crane began a 
discussion as they left the meeting room about the executive session that occurred earlier that 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
evening concerning casino mitigation agreements.1 Mr. Gold characterized his conversation 
with Mr. Crane as an "ad hoc performance review" concerning Mr. Crane's work on a capital 
project and casino mitigation discussions. Mr. Gold expressed his discontent with Mr. Crane's 
action or inaction relative to these issues. Hearing this conversation, Board member Alex Grant 
joined the discussion, and concurred with Mr. Gold's assessment of Mr. Crane's work. Mr. 
Crane defended his work and expressed concern about how his work is evaluated. As the 
discussion became increasingly heated. Chair Marie Angelides intervened, informing them that 
there would be "ample opportunity to discuss their opinion on the process and negotiations at the 
next meeting." Ms. Angelides left approximately ten minutes later after the emotional discussion 
appeared to subside. The complainant, who is a Board member, learned about the post-meeting 
discussion when Mr. Gold left him a voice message to notify him about this post-meeting 
discussion which he characterized as a "carry-over" from the executive session that evening. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. The Law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding deliberations 
and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge, 
376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law 
defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of a meeting 
agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of 
reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member 
is expressed." Ick 
Because this is a five-member Board, three members constitute a quorum. The initial 
discussion between Mr. Crane, Mr. Gold and Mr. Grant was between a subquorum of the Board. 
When Ms. Angelides joined the discussion, however, a quorum of the Board was present and the 
heated discussion continued for a matter of minutes. Ms. Angelides contends that her 
participation was limited to halting the heated discussion and did not involve discussion of 
matters within the Board's jurisdiction. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, we credit her 
account and find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.2 
1 Although not the subject of the complaint, we note that according to its August 5, 2013 meeting minutes, the Board 
did not convene in open session prior to convening in executive session. We remind the Board that a public body 
may enter executive, or closed, session provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session, and that the vote of each member is recorded by roll 
call and entered into the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). Before entering the executive session, the chair must state 
the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose 
for which the executive session was called, and the chair must publicly announce whether the open session will 
reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session. Id. 
2 We note our concerns, however, especially in light of the admission by one Board member during the course of our 
investigation that it is not unusual for three or more Board members to talk to each other about matters within the 
Board's jurisdiction. We remind the Board of its obligation to refrain from such conversations outside of properly 
posted open meetings. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
In the response to this complaint, Ms. Angelides contends that the Board disclosed the 
details of this August 5, 2013 discussion during a subsequent open meeting, however none of the 
Board members interviewed could identify which meeting that was, and our review of the 
.3. minutes from several subsequent meetings did not identify any such a disclosure. Accordingly, 
in the interest of transparency, we strongly encourage the Board to disclose the specific details of 
the August 5, 2013 post-meeting discussion during a properly posted open meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. Lhis 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Palmerino Santaniello 
Longmeadow Select Board 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
J We commend the Board and counsel for reviewing the requirements under the Open Meeting Law during its 
August 14, 2013 meeting following Mr. Santaniello's expression of concern to Ms. Angelides prior to filing this 
complaint. 
3 