===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 14, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 192 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Kelly T. Gonzalez, Esq.  
Long & DiPietro , LLP 
kgonzalez@long-law.com   
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Gonzalez: 
 
This office received a complaint from Claire Barden on May 18, 2022,
1 alleging that the 
Lynnfield School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about February 11, and, 
after an extension of time granted by this office, you responded on behalf of the Committee by 
letter dated March 10. The complaint alleges that the Committee deliberated via serial 
communication facilitated by Superintendent of Lynnfield Public Schools Kristen Vogel 
regarding mask mandates for schools. 
 
Following our review, we do not find that the Committee the violated the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, 
the Committee’s response, the request for further review, a letter from Superintendent Vogel 
dated February 9, and the notice for the Committee’s February 15 meeting. We also reviewed 
video recordings of Committee meetings held on August 31, 2021; October 12, 2021; November 
9, 2021; February 15, 2022; and March 8, 2022.
2 Finally, we also communicated with 
Superintendent Vogel and counsel3 for the Committee by phone.  
 
 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2022 unless otherwise stated. 
2 Video recordings of Committee meetings can be found at https://vimeo.com/showcase/3208067. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Committee is a five-member public body; 
therefore, three members constitute a quorum. During its August 31, 2021, meeting the 
Committee discussed the possibility of the Lynnfield high school reaching an 80 percent 
vaccination rate which would then allow the high school to apply for a waiver from the 
Department of Elementary and Secondary Education’s (“DESE”) mask mandate. The Committee 
also discussed Superintendent Vogel’s authority to apply for the waiver should the high school 
meet the 80 percent vaccination rate between regularly scheduled Committee meetings. During 
the Committee’s October 12, 2021, meeting Superintendent Vogel explained her plan to request 
a waiver from DESE once the high school reached an 80 percent vaccination rate. In turn, the 
Committee asked whether it would receive periodic updates about the high school’s progress 
toward reaching an 80 percent vaccination rate and Superintendent Vogel explained that her 
office was monitoring progress toward that goal frequently. During its November 9, 2021, 
meeting the Committee inquired again about the high school’s progress toward reaching an 80 
percent vaccination rate and obtaining a waiver from DESE.  
 
On or about February 8, Superintendent Vogel learned that the high school had reached 
an 80 percent vaccination rate. On February 9, Superintendent Vogel learned that the 
Commissioner of Education would not renew the state-wide mask mandate for public schools 
and therefore masking would become optional effective February 28, the day after February 
school break. At some point after learning that the high school had reached an 80 percent 
vaccination rate, Superintend Vogel, on her own, applied for a mask mandate waiver from 
DESE. Additionally, at some point after learning of the high school’s vaccination rate and the 
Commissioner of Education’s plan to lift the state-wide mask mandate, Superintendent Vogel 
called each member of the Committee separately to share this information with them and to 
explain the steps she had taken or planned to take with respect to masking at Lynnfield public 
schools. The Committee has specifically asserted that during these calls “Committee members 
did not express their opinions on the matters and Superintendent Vogel did not solicit or share 
opinions among Committee members.” Superintendent Vogel has confirmed this version of 
events, explaining that she made the calls simply to inform the Committee members of the 
quickly changing landscape regarding masking at Lynnfield public schools, but not to poll the 
members as to their thoughts or opinions on the matter nor to secure approval for any 
contemplated course of action. 
 
On February 9, Superintendent Vogel issued a letter to the school district community 
informing the community that the high school had reached the 80 percent vaccination rate 
necessary to apply for a waiver from DESE, that she had applied for a waiver, and that the 
Committee would discuss the topic at its upcoming meeting on February 15. Additionally, the 
letter informed the community that the state-wide mask mandate would be lifted on February 28 
and that at that time the remaining public schools in Lynnfield would become mask optional.  
 
During the Committee’s February 15 meeting, Superintendent Vogel explained that she 
received confirmation from the Commissioner of Education on February 11 that the high 
school’s waiver had been approved. During the same meeting, the Chair provided background 
explaining that on February 8 the high school had met the 80 percent vaccination rate required to 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
apply for the waiver, that Superintendent Vogel had immediately applied for the waiver, and that 
the waiver had been granted. The Committee thereafter voted to accept the waiver. Next the 
Chair explained that on February 9 it was announced that the state-wide mask mandate would 
not be renewed, making masking optional for schools effective February 28. The Committee 
then voted to support Superintendent Vogel’s decision that all Lynnfield school buildings 
become mask optional on February 28. Finally, the Committee voted to amend its face covering 
policy.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law states, in relevant part, that “[e]xcept in an 
emergency, in addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice 
of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays. In an emergency, a public body shall post notice as soon as reasonably possible prior to 
such meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Except when convened in executive session, “all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). 
 
A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” 
broadly as any “oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, 
between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id. 
The Open Meeting Law does not carve out an exception to the definition of “deliberation” for 
discussions that do not result in a decision or vote. See OML 2020-93.
4 A public body may not 
engage in a serial communication whereby a quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous 
manner outside of a meeting on a particular subject matter within the public body’s jurisdiction. 
See OML 2015-3; OML 2012-84; OML 2011-27; McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 
(2008) (holding that private serial communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law 
and may not be used to circumvent the intent of the law). Furthermore, a public body may not 
use a non-member, such as a staff member, to facilitate communication on matters that the public 
body would otherwise save for discussion at an open meeting. See District Attorney for the 
Northern District v. School Committee of Wayland, 451 Mass. 561, 570-571 (2009) 
(“Governmental bodies may not circumvent the requirements of the open meeting law by 
conducting deliberations via private messages, whether electronically, in person, over the 
telephone, or in any other form.”). 
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee deliberated outside of a properly noticed 
meeting via serial communication facilitated by Superintendent Vogel. In support of this 
assertion, the Complainant points to Superintendent Vogel’s February 9 letter explaining the 
anticipated changes to the district’s masking policies and an email in which the Chair of the 
Committee told the Complainant that Superintendent Vogel had communicated with each 
Committee member separately concerning lifting the mask mandate. The Committee has 
explained that Superintendent Vogel had the authority to make changes to the district’s masking 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
policies, including applying for a waiver from DESE, and that her phone calls with Committee 
members consisted solely of Superintendent Vogel informing Committee members of the 
information she had learned that could affect the district’s masking policies and the actions she 
had already taken or had already decided to take. The Committee has asserted that 
Superintendent Vogel did not solicit any Committee member’s thoughts or opinions on these 
matters and that no member shared their thoughts or opinions on these matters. Absent sufficient 
evidence to the contrary, we credit the Committee’s account of the facts. See OML 2017-93; 
OML 2016-141; see also LaPointe v. License Board of Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) (“There 
is every presumption in favor of the honesty and sufficiency of the motives actuating public 
officers in actions ostensibly taken for the general welfare.”). Therefore, we do not find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. Although we do not find a violation here, 
we caution the Committee that serial communication can lead to improper deliberation, even if 
unintentionally, and that polling public body members outside of a public meeting is prohibited. 
See OML 2020-160; OML 2013-69. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we do not find that the Committee the violated the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Rich Sjoberg, Chair , Lynnfield School Committee (via email: 
sjobergrich@lynnfield.k12.ma.us) 
Claire Barden (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
