===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
November 5, 2019 
OML 2019-143
Kenneth Rossetti, Esq.
Assistant City Solicitor 
City of Malden 
110 Pleasant Street 
Malden, MA 02148
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Rossetti:
This office received a complaint from Brian DeLacey on April 22, 2019 alleging that the 
Malden City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Council on March 14, 2019, and you responded on 
behalf of the Council by letter dated April 3, 2019. In his complaint, Mr. DeLacey alleges that 
the Council is improperly withholding executive session minutes from a December 8, 2015, 
meeting of the Council, which he had requested.
We appreciate the Council’s cooperation during our investigation. At the time of its 
response, the Council asserted that the purposes for the executive sessions were ongoing and 
thus, the minutes at issue remained confidential. Following our review, we find that the Open 
Meeting Law no longer authorizes withholding the minutes of the Council’s discussion of the 
110 Pleasant Street property. However, we find that all other parts of these the December 8, 
2015, executive session minutes are being properly withheld for ongoing executive session 
purposes.
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the complaint, the Council’s response and the 
request for further review, as well as subsequent correspondence sent to us by the Complainant 
on September 11, 2019. We have reviewed, in camera, the executive session minutes from the 
Council’s December 8, 2015, meeting which you sent us. Finally, we spoke with you by phone 
on September 19 and October 22, 2019.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. On December 8, 2015, the Council met in executive session 
to discuss appraisal of the Malden Hospital property and the status of negotiations for the 
temporary relocation of City offices. Because the executive session minutes have not been 
released, we do not recount their content in detail. However, we note that the Council discussed
o

===PAGE 2===
the possibility of purchasing a property at 110 Pleasant Street for temporary offices, including 
the value of the property to the City and how much to offer for the property. At the end of this 
discussion, the Council unanimously authorized the Mayor to enter a land disposition agreement 
for the 110 Pleasant Street property. On April 4, 2016, the City acquired the property and 
registered a quitclaim deed with the Middlesex South District Registry of Deeds. The Council 
also discussed the lease of another property for temporary City offices and the appraisal of the 
Malden Hospital Site.
DISCUSSION
All meetings of a public body must be conducted in an open session, unless a closed-door 
executive session is convened for one of ten permissible purposes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). 
One such statutory purpose for executive session is to “consider the purchase, exchange, lease or 
value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the negotiating position of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) (“Purpose 6”). However, 
where the price has been settled and there are no additional terms under consideration, but rather 
the discussion is focused largely on the use of the property once the purchase is completed, 
Purpose 6 does not apply to authorize deliberation in executive session. See OML 2019-108; 
OML 2016-93; OML 2014-36; OML 2012-52.1
Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(f). When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any 
documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed, unless the attorney-client privilege 
or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies. Id. The burden of justifying continued 
nondisclosure of executive session minutes lies with the public body. Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham 
Regional School Committee. 402 Mass. 179,184 (1988); OML 2017-151.
Here, we find that the Council properly entered executive session under Purpose 6 to 
discuss the value and the purchase of the 110 Pleasant Street property as a possible location for 
temporary Malden city offices. This proper purpose allowed the Council to withhold its 
executive session minutes from the public as long as the City was in negotiations to acquire the 
property. However, on April 4, 2016, the City acquired the property, bringing its negotiations to 
an end. The Council takes the position that, because the City has not decided what to do with the 
110 Pleasant Street property after it is no longer needed as temporary offices, and may decide to 
sell the property, the original purpose for the executive session remains ongoing. We disagree.
Once a price had been finalized with the previous owner of the property, and the 
transaction executed, the City no longer had a negotiating position that needed protection. 
Executive session Purpose 6 is limited to deliberations where secrecy is needed to protect the 
body’s negotiating position. See OML 2016-46; OML 2014-36; OML 2012-52. The final 
purchase price of the 110 Pleasant Street property became a public record when the City 
recorded the transfer of the deed with the Middlesex South District Registry of Deeds, at which 
time the Council no longer had a negotiating position to protect. For these reasons, we find that
1 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law.
2

===PAGE 3===
the lawful purpose for which the minutes regarding 110 Pleasant Street were being withheld 
concluded once the property was purchased.2
Because we find that the lawful purpose for secrecy of the Council’s discussions 
regarding the 110 Pleasant Street Property has expired, the Council must release the portion of 
the December 8 executive session minutes relating to that topic, unless the attorney-client 
privilege or another exemption to the Public Records Law applies. Although we find that the 
Open Meeting Law no longer provides a basis for withholding this portion of the executive 
session minutes, we do not herein decide whether the Public Records Law may authorize 
withholding the minutes at issue.
Finally, we find that the portions of the executive session minutes relating to the lease of 
another property for temporary City offices and the appraisal of the Malden Hospital Site may 
continue to be withheld, because those discussions were held under lawful executive session 
purposes and the purposes for each are still ongoing. Unlike the 110 Pleasant Street property, the 
Malden Hospital site has not been sold, and release of the Council’s appraisal information 
contained in the executive session minutes could damage the City’s negotiating position as the 
City seeks redevelopment of the vacant hospital property, including the possibility of purchasing 
the property. Similarly, the City is still leasing another property for temporary City offices and 
the Council’s negotiating position with the owner of that property could be hurt if the executive 
session minutes were released. For these reasons, the Council may continue to withhold these 
sections of the executive session minutes because the executive session purposes are ongoing.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we order the Council to release the portion of its December 
8, 2015 executive session minutes pertaining to the 110 Pleasant Street Property, unless the 
attorney-client privilege or another exemption to the Public Records Law applies.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Sarah Chase
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Brian DeLacey
Malden City Council
2 We note that if the City decides to sell or lease the 110 Pleasant Street property in the future, the Council may enter 
into a new Purpose 6 executive session to discuss those matters. However, the fact that the Council may eventually 
engage in another transaction relating to the same property is not reason to find that the negotiating position that it 
sought to protect in 2015 remains in need of protection.
3

===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
4
