===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 1, 2016 
OML 2016-120 
Donna Lopez 
Cambridge City Clerk 
795 Massachusetts Avenue 
Cambridge, MA 02139 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Lopez: 
This office received a complaint from John Hawkinson on July 5, alleging that the 
Cambridge City Council's Government Operations, Rules, and Claims Committee (the 
"Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was 
originally filed with the Committee on May 4, and you responded, on behalf of the 
Committee, by letter dated May 20. The complaint alleges that the Committee failed to 
include anticipated topics on its April 6 meeting notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint filed with the 
Committee, the Committee's response, the complainant's request for further review by our 
office, and a letter, dated July 15, from the City Solicitor to our office. Additionally, we 
reviewed the original and revised notice and minutes of the Committee meeting held on April 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a standing committee of the City 
Council which consists of five Councillors. On March 31, the City Clerk posted notice on the 
City website of a Committee meeting scheduled for April 6 at 10 A.M. to hold "a public 
hearing to continue to discuss the development of the process for the selection of a new City 
Manager." During the day on April 4, the Committee Chair drafted an agenda outlining the 
specific topics related to the selection process that he had planned to discuss during the 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. The complaint also alleges that the Committee's notices generally 
lack sufficient detail. We will not conduct broad audits of a public body and thus decline to review generalized 
allegations about the notice posting practices of the Council and its committees. See OML 2016-57. 
Accordingly, we limit our review of the complaint to the Committee's April 6 meeting. 
6. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
meeting. This agenda became a revision to the original notice, which was available on the 
City website that day, but less than 48 hours before the meeting. The revised notice listed the 
following topics: 
PURPOSE: To approve the City Manager's Search Process. 
DISCUSSION: 
1. Approve Proposed Timeline 
2. Approve Proposed RFP 
3. Approve Approved Composition of the RFP [Request for Proposals] 
Evaluation Committee 
4. Search Process Confidentiality 
5. Next Steps. 
During the meeting, the Committee generally followed this agenda and discussed each 
topic in turn. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body must post notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting that includes a 
"listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(b). We generally consider a list of topics sufficiently specific when a reasonable 
member of the public could read the notice and understand the anticipated nature of the public 
body's discussion. See OML 2011-44.2 
The complaint alleges that the original notice failed to include the specific topics that 
the Chair reasonably anticipated for discussion at the April 6 meeting. Namely, the complaint 
contends that the original notice, posted on March 31, should have included the topics that 
were added to the revised agenda less than 48 hours before the meeting. We find that, while 
these additional topics would have been useful, the topic listed on the original notice, "a 
public hearing to continue to discuss the development of the process for the selection of a new 
City Manager," sufficiently advised the public of the anticipated discussion. See OML 2016-
78. The law does not require the meeting notice to list all tangential issues related to a 
particular topic. See OML 2015-73. That the Committee Chair decided to enumerate 
subtopics on a revised meeting notice does not render the topic listed on the original notice 
insufficient. Accordingly, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
in this regard. In the interests of full transparency, however, we encourage the Committee to 
list all anticipated subtopics on the original 48-hour meeting notice in the future. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions. 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: John Hawkinson 
Nancy Glowa, City Solicitor 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. e. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of 
receipt of a final order. 
3 