===PAGE 1===
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 26, 2018 
OML 2018 - 93 
David Gagliardi, Chair 
Billerica Finance Committee 
365 Boston Road 
Billerica, MA 01821 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Gagliardi: 
This office received a complaint from Janet Morris on December 22 alleging that the 
Billerica Finance Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on October 3; and you responded 
to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, by email dated October 12. The complaint alleges 
that the Committee failed to timely respond to a request for open session minutes. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response to the complaint, 
the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the minutes from the 
Committee's October 12 meeting. Finally, we spoke with the complainant by telephone on May 
15,2018. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Public Records Access Policy for the Town of Billerica 
suggests that requests for minutes and agendas of Boards and Committees be directed to the 
Town Clerk, who is the Records Access Officer. In addition, the Committee website indicates 
that "For more information about the Finance Committee, contact the Clerk's office." 
On September 13, the complainant visited the Town Clerk's office and submitted a 
written request for minutes from Committee meetings held on August 8, August 31, and 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
O 
===PAGE 2===
September 12. The Town Clerk advised the complainant that she did not have copies of the 
requested meeting minutes, and provided an email address for Committee Chair David 
Gagliardi.2 
At 3:17 P.M. on September 13, the complainant emailed Chair Gagliardi requesting 
minutes from Committee meetings held on August 8, August 31, and September 12. The request 
for minutes was sent to the email address for Mr. Gagliardi provided to the complainant by the 
Town Clerk. 
During a September 26 Committee meeting, the complainant spoke to Chair Gagliardi 
and inquired in to the status of her request for minutes.3 Chair Gagliardi advised her that he had 
not received her request, and informed her that the email address on file with the Town Clerk had 
not been used by him for a number of years. He then provided her with his new email address. 
At 10:30 A.M. on September 27, the complainant emailed Chair Gagliardi, at the new 
address he provided to her the previous evening, and requested minutes from Committee 
meetings held on August 8, August 31, and September 12. Chair Gagliardi responded 
approximately an hour and one-half later stating "I am working to get those to you as soon as 
possible." 
On October 3, having received no further response from the Committee, the complainant 
filed an Open Meeting Law complaint regarding the Committee's failure to respond to her 
request for the August 8, August 31, and September 12 minutes. During an October 12 meeting, 
the Committee approved these three sets of minutes and also reviewed this complaint. Minutes 
were emailed to the complainant at 7:29 P.M. on October 12. 
DISCUSSION 
The complaint alleges that the Committee failed to timely provide copies of meeting 
minutes following a request. The Open Meeting Law requires that "[t]he minutes of an open 
session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft form, shall be made available upon request 
by any person within 10 days." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a), (c). Here, the complainant first requested 
copies of minutes on September 13; she then requested the same minutes on September 27, but 
minutes were not provided until October 12. The Committee states that it did not receive the 
September 13 request, and it appears that it did not receive the request due to an out-of-date 
email address.4 Therefore, we use September 27 as the request date because Chair Gagliardi 
acknowledged receipt of that request. Using September 27, minutes should have been provided 
to the complainant by October 7, which was 10 calendar days after the request. See OML 2013-
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
3 We note that the complainant also submitted a written request to Chair Gagliardi that evening for minutes from all 
Committee meetings held in September 2016. However, no allegation has been raised with respect to whether the 
Committee, properly responded to that request, and we do not address it here. 
4 We encourage the Committee to update its contact information with the Town Clerk; and further encourage the 
Committee to regularly provide current minutes to the Town Clerk so that requests for minutes can be responded to 
in a timely manner, especially where the Town's Public Records Access Policy identifies the Town Clerk as the 
custodian for minutes. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
120 (meeting minutes must be made available within 10 calendar days of request).5 We 
recognize that October 7 was a Saturday, and that the following Monday, October 9, was a legal 
holiday. However, the Committee did not provide minutes until Thursday, October 12. Even 
though the Committee failed to timely respond to a request for minutes, at the time the complaint 
was filed, the Committee still had four days to timely respond to the request. See OML 2015-
116. Therefore, we do not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law based on the allegation in 
the complaint. Nonetheless, we remind the Committee of its obligations under the law. 
While not raised in the complaint, we note that the Open Meeting Law requires that a 
public body "create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, 
setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes must be reviewed and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(c). "Timely manner" means "within the next three public body meetings or within 30 
days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay." See 940 
CMR 29.11; OML 2018-48. Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a meeting be 
approved at the next meeting. See OML 2018-67; OML 2017-133. Here, the Committee 
approved the August 8, August 31, and September 12 minutes at its October 12 meeting. 
Because the Committee met more than three times within 30 days following each of the meetings 
at issue, it had 30 days by which to approve those minutes. See 940 CMR 29.11; OML 2018-48. 
While the September 12 minutes were approved in a timely manner, the August 8 and August 31 
minutes were not. We remind the Committee of its obligations under the law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
KerryArme Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Janet Morris 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member of a 
body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 