===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
September 15, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 145 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Christopher L. Mooney, Esq. 
Assistant City Solicitor 
City of Malden 
215 Pleasant Street, Suite 420 
Malden, MA 02148 
 
cmooney@cityofmalden.org 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Mooney: 
 
This office received a complaint from Christina Murphy on May 20,
1 alleging that the 
Malden Youth Council (the “Youth Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Youth Council on April 17, and pursuant to 
an extension, you responded on behalf of the Youth Council by letter June 30.2  The complaint 
alleges that the Youth Council violated the Open Meeting Law when it (1) failed to post notice 
of meetings, including a Youth Council “summit” held on April 23; (2) failed to create and 
approve minutes of meetings in a timely manner; and (3) engaged in communication among a 
quorum outside of a posted meeting. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Youth Council violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it failed to post notice of meetings and failed to create minutes in a timely manner.  We 
find that the Youth Council did not violate the Law in the other way alleged.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Youth Council’s response and 
the complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed notices of the Youth Council’s 
meetings held in April, May and June, minutes of the April 23 Youth Council summit, and 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 Because the complainant requested review prior to receipt of the response, we contacted her on August 25 to 
confirm she still wished to have our office review the complaint in light of the response.  She confirmed that she did.   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
minutes of a meeting of the Community Engagement and Inclusion Committee, held on 
December 4, 2024.  Finally, we communicated with the complainant via email. 3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Youth Council is a public body. 
 
As an initial matter, we find that the Youth Council is a public body.  The Y
 outh Council 
does not argue otherwise.  After receiving guidance from this Division earlier this year, the City 
Council determined that the Youth Council was “likely a public body and should operate as such 
from that point on.”  The Youth Council is a subcommittee of the City Council’s Community 
Engagement and Inclusion Committee (the “Committee”).  A subcommittee of a public body is 
itself a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law.  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  See also OML 2025-
54; OML 2021-179; OML 2012-6.4  In the absence of any argument to the contrary, we find that 
the Youth Council is a public body, making it subject to the Open Meeting Law.     
 
II. The Youth Council violated the Open Meeting Law when it failed to post notice 
of its April 23 meeting. 
 
Pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, “[e]xcept in an emergency ... a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  For meetings of a local public body, unless an 
alternative posting method has been adopted, the notice must be filed with the municipal clerk 
and posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on the municipal 
building in which the clerk’s office is located.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c);  940 CMR 29.03(2).  The 
Law allows for alternative methods of posting meeting notices as prescribed by the Attorney 
General.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c).  The Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations allow the 
Chief Executive Officer of a municipality to adopt the municipality’s website as the official 
posting location for meeting notices.  See 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b).  The City of Malden adopted its 
municipal website, www.cityofmalden.org, as the official posting location on or about July 8, 
2019. 
 
In its response, the Youth Council notes that in advance of the April 23 summit, flyers 
and invitations were posted at the Malden High School and the Malden Catholic High School.  
The Youth Council further states that the “purpose of the Summit was not to deliberate or vote 
on any votable issues, but rather to review [its] work.”  The Youth Council appears to argue 
either that notice was not required because no deliberation or vote was anticipated at the April 23 
summit, or that flyers and invitations posted at the local high schools satisfied the Law’s notice 
requirement.  Neither argument prevails.  The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
 
3 The complainant has stressed that it is not her intent to find fault with the work of civically engaged youths.   
Although she has named the Youth Council in the complaint, she seems to place at least some blame for the Youth 
Council’s violations on the City Council and the Committee.  However, it is the public body only, and not its parent 
body, that is responsible for its own violations of the Open Meeting Law. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website,  
www. Mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; ....”  G.L. c. 
30A, §18.  See also OML 2025-106; OML 2020-13 (Board of Park Commissioners violated 
Open Meeting Law when it failed to post notice of retreat at which it discussed public business 
within its jurisdiction).  Although light on detail, notice of the April 23 summit lists as a topic 
“updates on the [Youth Council’s] contributions to date.”  By its nature, an update on a public 
body’s contributions to date constitutes communication on public business within its jurisdiction.  
Nothing within the Open Meeting Law limits the notice requirement to those topics that will be 
subject to a vote.  See OML 2024-10; OML 2023-199.  For these reasons, notice of the April 23 
summit should have posted on the City of Malden’s municipal website, in accordance with the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law.  Because it was not, we find that the Youth Council 
violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
III. The Youth Council violated the Open Meeting Law when it failed to prepare 
minutes in a timely manner. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minut
es of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made, and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The minutes of an open session must be 
reviewed and approved in a timely manner.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  “Timely manner” means 
“within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the 
public body can show good cause for further delay.”  See 940 CMR 29.11.  Whenever possible, 
we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting.  See OML 2018-67; 
OML 2017-133.  At its June 10 meeting, the Youth Council approved minutes of all its meetings 
going back to December 2024.  According to information available on the City of Malden’s 
website, the Youth Council met at least five times between December 2024 and June 10, 2025.  
Because minutes of these open meetings were not approved in a timely manner, we find that the 
Youth Council violated the Open Meeting Law.   
 
IV. There is n
 o evidence that the Youth Council deliberated outside a public meeting. 
 
As noted above, the Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly as “an oral or 
wri
tten communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a 
quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; ....”  G.L. c. 30A, §18.  
Text messages on public business within a public body’s jurisdiction constitute deliberation 
when they reach a quorum of the public body.  See, e.g., OML 2021-100.  In her complaint, Ms. 
Murphy alleges that members of the Youth Council “have been non-transparently messaging 
each other.”  In support of this allegation, the complainant highlights a discussion of texting 
during a meeting of the Committee on December 4, 2024.  According to the minutes of that 
meeting, however, it appears that the texts were sent by the Committee to members of the Youth 
Council.  As we have been presented with no text message sent by a member of the Youth 
Council and reaching a quorum of the Youth Council, we find no violation.  We caution the 
Youth Council, however, that a group text sent to the entire Youth Council, no matter its origin, 
could generate responses that might breach the Open Meeting Law’s prohibition against 
deliberation outside a meeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Youth Council violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to post notice and failing to prepare minutes of meetings in a timely manner.  We 
commend the Youth Council for committing to “take affirmative steps with the assistance of the 
[Committee] and Malden’s Legal Department to understand and comply with the Open Meeting 
Law.”  We order the Youth Council’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s 
requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law.
5   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Youth 
Council or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
        
       Matthew Lindberg  
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
  
 
cc: Christina Murphy ( via email: )  
 Malden City Clerk (via email: cdesiderio@cityofmalden.org)  
  
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
5 As requested in the complaint, and in accordance with our guidance herein, all notices of the Youth Council’s 
meetings must be posted in accordance with the Open Meeting Law.  We do not order the posting of minutes, as 
requested by the complainant, because the Open Meeting Law does not require that minutes be posted online.  The 
Youth Council is reminded, however, that it must provide copies of minutes if requested.  See  G.L. c. 30A, §22(c) 
(“The minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft form, shall be made available upon 
request by any person within 10 days.”) 
