===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 12,2016 
OML 2016-93 
Adam J. Costa, Esq. 
Blatman, Bobrowski, Mead & Talennan, LLC 
9 Damonmill Square, Suite 4A4 
Concord, MA 01742 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Dear Attorney Costa; 
This office received a complaint from Daniel Hill, Esq., dated June 7, alleging that the 
Ashland Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L, c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 1, and, after an extension of 
time was granted by this office, the Board responded by letter dated May 6. In his complaint. 
Attorney Hill alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) convening an 
improper executive session on February 15, 2012; and (ii) deliberating outside of an open 
meeting to revise the terms of a Purchase and Sale agreement. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting with 
respect to the first allegation. Moreover, we find that the complaint was untimely with respect to 
the second allegation, and thus decline to review its merits. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint; the Board's response; and the request for further review filed 
with our office. We also reviewed a copy of the executive session minutes for the Board meeting 
held on February 15, 2012, as well as all documentary material provided with the complaint, 
including correspondence between the complainant and legal counsel for the Board.2 Finally, we 
spoke with the Board's legal counsel by telephone on June 20 and July 1. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board held a meeting on February 15, 2012 to discuss 
the terms of a Purchase and Sale agreement ("Agreement") with Robert Hill Way Development, 
LLC, ("RHW") for the development of affordable senior housing. At that meeting, the members 
of the Board voted to convene in executive session. While in executive session, Town Counsel 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
Adam Costa presented the terms of the Agreement that he had negotiated with RHW over the 
previous six months. Mr. Costa had a copy of a signed Agreement with RHW, but the Board 
had not yet discussed a final Agreement with RHW prior to the February 15, 2012 meeting. The 
housing project was to be implemented in two phases. In Phase I, RHW would purchase a 
portion of the project site from the Town for the development of an apartment building. RHW 
would also have an option for Phase II, where it could purchase the remainder of the project site 
to develop a second apartment building. 
During the executive session, Mr. Costa noted that the "agreement has many 
contingencies to protect the Town, including granting the Town access to Phase II of the project 
should the developer back out of the project after Phase I." Members of the Board then 
discussed various aspects of the proposed Agreement, and asked Mr. Costa several questions, 
including: whether "the neighbors are being considered in the project as proposed"; whether "the 
funds from the sales stay with [Ashland Redevelopment Authority]" or go to the General Fund;4 
and, whether "if the developer goes belly up on the project, ... it affect[s] the Town's easement 
to Phase II." After discussing its terms with Mr. Costa, the Board unanimously voted to approve 
and execute the Agreement with RHW. It is unclear on exactly what date the Board members all 
signed the Agreement, but the final Agreement was dated February 21, 2012. 
On December 3, 2015, Chair Joseph Magnani, on behalf of the Board and the Town, 
conveyed to RHW two deeds for the property.5 RHW granted the Town several mortgages on 
the property, and the deeds and mortgages were recorded at the Registry of Deeds on the same 
date. On March 2, 2016, the Board held a meeting at which it voted to release the executive 
session minutes for the February 15, 2012 meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Complaint was Timely Filed with Respect to the First Allegation, but was not 
Timely Filed with Respect to the Second Allegation. 
The Open Meeting Taw directs complainants to "file a written complaint with the public 
body, setting forth the circumstances which constitute the alleged violation . . . within 30 days of 
the date of the alleged violation." G.T. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged violation could not have 
been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed within 30 days of the date 
on which the alleged violation could reasonably have been discovered. 940 CMR 29.05(3). 
3 It is unclear from the February 15, 2012 executive session minutes whether the Board announced its purpose for 
convening in executive session, or that it would convene in open session at the conclusion of the executive session. 
We take this opportunity to remind the Board of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. Before convening in 
executive session, the chair of the public body must state "all subjects that may be revealed without compromising 
the purpose" of the executive session, and also publicly announce whether the public body will reconvene in open 
session at the conclusion of the executive session. G.L. c, 30A, § 21(b). The law also requires that the chair state 
publicly before the executive session that an open meeting would compromise the negotiating position of the public 
body. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) (Purpose 6); see also OML 2014-136. 
4 Town Counsel stated to our office that Selectman Jon Fetherston was actually referring to the Ashland Affordable 
Housing Trust in making this statement. Nevertheless, the minutes reflect that Selectmen Fetherston referred to the 
Redevelopment Authority. 
5 RHW had elected to exercise its right to purchase Phase II of the project on or before the Phase 1 Closing Date, as 
provided for in the Agreement. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The complaint alleges that both allegations are timely. In its response, the Board claims 
that the first allegation in the complaint was not timely and thus our office should decline to 
review it. The date of the alleged violation was February 15, 2012, but the complaint was not 
filed until April 1, 2016 - over four years later. However, the executive session minutes from 
the February 15, 2012 meeting were not released to the public until March 2 of this year. 
Because the first allegation is that an executive session was convened for an improper purpose, 
any violations would not be reasonably discoverable by the public until those meeting minutes 
were publicly released. See OML 2014-116, n. 2.6 Therefore, because the first alleged Open 
Meeting Law violation was not reasonably discoverable until March 2, then we find that the first 
allegation on the complaint was timely filed on April 1. 
We agree with the Board that the second allegation was not timely filed. On December 3, 
2015, Chair Magnani conveyed the property to RHW, and the parties recorded all related 
documents the same day. At that point, all documents were accessible to the general public at 
the Registry of Deeds. Because any person, particularly those interested in this transaction, 
could access these documents as soon as they were recorded, we find that December 3, 2015 was 
the date by which any violation with respect to the final Agreement was reasonably discoverable. 
Therefore, any Open Meeting Law complaint regarding the final Agreement had to be filed by 
January 2, 2016. Because the complaint was not filed with the Board until April 1, we find that 
the second allegation was not timely filed, and thus decline to review its merits. 
II. The Board's February 15, 2012 Executive Session was Held for a Proper Purpose. 
Public bodies may enter a closed, or executive, session only for one or more of ten 
purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21. One purpose is "[t]o 
consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body." Id, at § 
21(a)(6) (Purpose 6). Where the price has been settled and there are no additional terms under 
consideration, but rather the discussion is focused largely on the use of the property once the 
purchase is completed. Purpose 6 is not a proper purpose for convening in executive session. 
See OML 2014-36; OML 2012-52. 
The complaint alleges that the February 15, 2012 executive session was improper 
because an open session discussion of the Agreement would not have compromised the Board's 
negotiating position, as town counsel had already negotiated the terms of the Agreement. The 
complaint relies on a prior decision, in which our office determined that it was improper for a 
public body to utilize executive session Purpose 6 to discuss in private whether or not to proceed 
with a purchase where the price had already been determined. See OML 2012-52. However, in 
another decision, we recognized that price is but one of many factors that may be considered by a 
public body in the course of such transactions and that a public body may still have a negotiating 
position to protect even where the price of a real estate purchase has already been decided. See 
OML 2014-36. 
Here, Town Counsel had negotiated the terms of the Agreement, and the February 15, 
2012 meeting was the first opportunity for the members of the Board to discuss those terms with 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
one another. At that time, there was a negotiated purchase price of $530,000 for Phase I of the 
project and $400,000 for Phase II, but neither the purchase prices nor any of the other terms of 
the agreement had been finalized prior to this executive session. Further discussion needed to 
take place, as evidenced by the various questions that the Board directed towards town counsel 
during the executive session. At any point during the meeting, one of the Board members could 
have disagreed with a term of the Agreement. Such disagreement with a material term could 
have required recommencement of negotiations with RHW. Because there were still several 
contingencies the Board was considering in the Agreement, we find that the Board had an 
ongoing negotiation position to protect during its February 15, 2012 meeting. See OML 2016-
46. Fherefore, we find that the Board properly entered executive session under Purpose 6 
because holding the discussion in open session may have had a detrimental effect on the Board's 
negotiating position. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by convening in executive session on February 15, 2012. We now consider the complaint 
addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other 
complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact the 
Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Daniel C. Hill, Esq. 
Ashland Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 