===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
October 5, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 142 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Thomas W. McEnaney, Esq. 
KP Law 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney McEnaney: 
 
This office received a complaint from Ruth French on February 15, 2021, alleging that 
the Phillipston Selectboard (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about December 1, 2020. After an 
extension of time granted by this office, you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated 
January 15, 2021. The complaint alleges that the Board entered executive session on November 
18, 2020, without first identifying the purpose for the executive session in either the meeting 
notice or the announcement made before entering executive session.1   
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when, on November 18, the 
Board discussed an anticipated topic without first including the topic on the meeting notice and 
when the Chair failed to identify the property to be discussed in his announcement before 
entering executive session. In reaching this determination we reviewed the original Open 
Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, the notice for the 
November 18 meeting, open and executive session minutes for the November 18 meeting, and 
additional information provided by the Board.2 Additionally, we communicated with Counsel for 
the Board3 and with the Complainant.  
 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2020, unless otherwise noted. 
2 The open session portion of the Board’s November 18 meeting was recorded; however, due to technical problems 
the video is inaccessible and so we were not able to review a recording of the meeting.   
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Town of Phillipston (the “Town”) is part of the 
Narragansett Regional School District (the “District”). As part of the district agreement, 
Phillipston agreed to allow the District to use the Phillipston Memorial Elementary School 
building. At some point the District decided it no longer wished to use the school building. 
Discussions ensued between the District and the Town regarding the return of the school 
building to the Town.  
 
On November 5, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on November 18. 
Relevant here, the meeting notice included the following topics, “Discussion with Phillipston 
Members of NRSD School Committee,” “Elementary School,” and “Executive Session – if 
necessary.” At the time of the events at issue here, it was the regular practice of the Board to 
include on its meeting notices the generic notice topic “Executive Session – if necessary.”  
 
On November 12, the Chief Administrative Officer of the Town forwarded to the Chair 
of the Board, John Telepciak,4 a letter from the District’s Superintendent proposing to return the 
school building to the Town on December 1. 
 
The Board convened its meeting as scheduled on November 18. During the discussion 
held under the notice topic “Discussion with Phillipston Members of NRSD School Committee,” 
the Chair raised the Superintendent’s letter and expressed his opinion that returning the school 
building to the Town on December 1 would be too soon. At some point either immediately prior 
to the November 18 meeting or during the meeting, Board member Gerhard Fandreyer suggested 
that the Board meet in executive session to discuss the return of the school building.  
 
At the end of the November 18 meeting, the Board voted to enter executive session. The 
Complainant and Board disagree about whether the Chair announced that the Board would enter 
executive session under the sixth executive session purpose set forth in the Open Meeting Law, 
which allows public bodies to meet in executive session to consider the purchase, exchange, 
lease, or value of real property; however, there is no dispute that the Chair did not identify the 
specific property to be discussed in the announcement made before entering executive session.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law When It Discussed the Return of the 
School Building During Its November 18 Meeting When That Topic Was Not 
Included on the Notice for the Meeting.  
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Notices must include “a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” Id. The 
list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). When an executive session topic is anticipated, 
the topic must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an announcement during open 
 
4 Mr. Telepciak is no longer a member of the Board.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive 
session was called. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). Public bodies may discuss a topic, including in 
executive session, not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not reasonably anticipated by 
the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting. See OML 2019-167.5 However, the Attorney 
General strongly recommends that public bodies, as a matter of best practice, table unplanned 
topics that might be of significant interest to the public in order to include them in a meeting 
notice for a subsequent meeting. See OML 2019-70; OML 2018-119. 
 
In both its response and supplemental response, the Board asserts that the topic of the 
return of the school building arose during the Board’s discussion with the school committee and 
that the topic was unanticipated by the Chair. A review of the open session minutes for the 
November 18 meeting shows that the Chair himself raised the Superintendent’s letter, which 
pertained to the return of the school building, and expressed his opinion that returning the school 
building to the Town on December 1 would be too soon. In subsequent communications with our 
office, the Board has explained that although the Chair received the Superintendent’s letter on 
November 12, he did not anticipate discussing the letter or related matters in executive session 
on November 18, and that it was Board member Fandreyer who suggested discussing the matter 
in executive session.  
 
We find based on the facts presented, including the Chair’s receipt of the 
Superintendent’s letter on November 12 regarding the important and time-sensitive issue of the 
school building potentially being returned to the Town on December 1 and the fact that the Chair 
himself raised the issue during the November 18 meeting, that the Chair should have reasonably 
anticipated that this topic would be discussed at the meeting. See OML 2021-121 (“[T]he 
requirement in the Open Meeting Law that meeting notices include a listing of topics that the 
chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting necessarily requires the Chair . . . to 
make some reasonable effort to ascertain what the Board will discuss at a meeting and include 
sufficient detail about those topics on the notice for the meeting.”). Therefore, the topic should 
have been included on the meeting notice or should not have been discussed until a future 
meeting when notice could be provided to the public.  
 
Although the notice for the November 18 meeting included the topics “Discussion with 
Phillipston Members of NRSD School Committee” and “Elementary school,” neither of these 
topics was sufficiently specific to reasonably inform the public that the Board would discuss the 
return of the school building to the Town. See OML 2021-126 (finding that the topic “Covid-19 
Update” was insufficiently specific when the chair anticipated discussing a particular policy 
pertaining to COVID-19). Likewise, the generic topic “Executive Session – if necessary,” was 
not sufficiently specific to satisfy the requirements of the Open Meeting Law because it did not 
provide any detail about what type of discussion would be had or what executive session purpose 
the session would be conducted under. See M.G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2020-2; OML 2019-
92; OML 2013-164. Therefore, the fact that the meeting notice included the topic “Executive 
Session – if necessary” has no bearing on whether the executive session was proper. 
 
 
5 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
II. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law When the Chair Failed to Identify the 
Specific Property to Be Discussed in Executive Session in the Announcement Made 
Prior to Entering Executive Session. 
 
All meetings of a public body must be conducted in an open session, unless a closed-door 
executive session is convened for one of ten permissible purposes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). 
One statutory purpose for meeting in executive session is to “consider the purchase, exchange, 
lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the negotiating position of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) (“Purpose 6”).  
 
Before entering executive session, the chair of a public body must announce in open 
session the purpose for entering executive session, “stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 
567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary . 
. . because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct 
business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was 
proper or improper”). A public body convening in executive session under Purpose 6 generally 
must identify, at a minimum, the specific real property to be discussed. See OML 2019-101; 
OML 2019-10; OML 2016-5; OML 2014-136; OML 2014-36. Although we generally defer to a 
public body’s assessment of whether identifying the specific property would compromise the 
purpose for the executive session, the public body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis 
for that claim if challenged. See OML 2018-139. 
 
Here, the Board makes no claim that identifying the specific property to be discussed in 
executive session would have compromised the purpose for the executive session. Therefore, 
even if we accept that the Chair did not anticipate holding a discussion about the return of the 
school building in executive session and for that reason had not included the required level of 
detail on the meeting notice, the Board still violated the Law when the Chair failed to identify the 
specific property to be discussed in the announcement before entering executive session. 
Because the Board failed to comply with the requirements of section 21(b)(3) of the Open 
Meeting Law, it may not rely on section 22(f) of the Open Meeting Law to withhold the 
November 18 executive session minutes in whole or in part. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f) (“The minutes 
of any executive session, the notes, recordings or other materials used in the preparation of such 
minutes and all documents and exhibits used at the session, may be withheld from disclosure . . . 
provided, however, that the executive session was held in compliance with section 21.”).  
 
Since the filing of the complaint, the Board has acknowledged that it is not useful to 
include a generic executive session topic on its meeting notices and has committed to complying 
with the Open Meeting Law in the future, including specifically the requirement to identify the 
property to be discussed in executive session under Purpose 6 if doing so will not jeopardize the 
reason for the executive session. The Board also committed to reviewing our office’s guidance 
on the requirements of the Law related to executive sessions. We commend the Board for its 
commitment to complying with the Open Meeting Law in the future. 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when, on November 18, the Board discussed an anticipated topic without first including the topic 
on the meeting notice and when the Chair failed to identify the specific property to be discussed 
during executive session. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, and caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to 
violate the Law. We further order the Board to publicly release the minutes of its November 18 
executive session in their entirety within 30 days of the date of this letter.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Phillipston Selectboard (via e-mail:  
Ruth French (via email:   
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
