===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
April 8, 2013 
OML 2013 — 43 
Lauren Goldberg, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Goldberg: 
This office received three complaints from April Letourneau, Rodney Powers and Ellen 
Powers, dated August 23, 2012, alleging that the Abington Conservation Commission (the 
"Commission"), and specifically Chairman Alex Bezanson, and Commissioners Harold Norton, 
Nathan Elliot' and James Connolly violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaints were originally filed with the Commission on or about June 13, 2012, and the 
Commission responded to the original complaint by letter dated August 16, 2012. In their 
complaints, complainants allege that based on a letter from Chairman Bezanson, the Commission 
engaged in a deliberation outside of a properly posted meeting regarding a particular property 
located in Abington. They further allege that Chairman Bezanson and Mr. Norton visited the 
same property several times. 
We reviewed the June 13, 2012 complaints; your August 16, 2012 response on behalf of 
the Commission; and the August 23, 2012 complaints filed with our office by Attorney Thomas 
Callahan on the complainants' behalf, requesting further review. We also reviewed the notice 
and minutes from the May 22, 2012 meeting, along with a May 2, 2012 letter from Rodney and 
Ellen Powers to the Commission and a May 5, 2012 letter from Chairman Bezanson to Town 
Manager John D'Agostino. Finally, we spoke individually by telephone with Chairman 
Bezanson and Vice-Chair Connolly.2  
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
1  Specifically, complainants allege that Mr. Elliot was "doing tree removal" on the property on April 29, 2012. 
2  We note that Chairman Bezanson and Vice-Chair Connolly have recently resigned from the Commission. 
0 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS  
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. 
On May 2, 2012, Rodney and Ellen Powers sent a letter to the Commission, alleging that 
the property owners at 237 Wyman Road violated the Wetland Protection Act. The Abington 
Board of Selectmen, the Town Manager and MassDEP were copied on the letter. In a May 5, 
2012 letter to the Town Manager, Chairman Bezanson responded to the allegations in the 
complainants' letter. Chairman Bezanson concluded, "[n]o wetland regulations have been 
violated in my opinion or the opinion of several other board members" and stated that the 
complainants' letter would be discussed at the next Commission meeting, on May 22, 2012. 
Based on the Chairman's statement in this letter, the complainants allege that the Commission 
engaged in deliberations outside of an open meeting. 
During a telephone conversation with this office, Chairman Bezanson stated he did not 
discuss the matter with any other Commissioner before drafting the May 5, 2012 letter. He 
stated that his comment regarding "the opinion of several other board members" that no wetland 
regulations had been violated was not based on a recent conversation with other members, but 
rather based upon his understanding of the Commission's position when an issue with the 
property came before them two or three years earlier. Prior to the meeting, Chairman Bezanson 
discussed the matter with Vice-Chairman Connolly and encouraged him to visit the property 
before the next Commission meeting. Vice-Chairman Connolly visited the property alone prior 
to the meeting. Chairman Bezanson stated that he also went alone to the property before the 
meeting and ran into Mr. Norton, who resides nearby, and told him that the property would be 
discussed at the next meeting. 
On May 22, 2012, the Commission convened a meeting in open session. The meeting 
notice, which was posted with the municipal clerk on May 16, 2012, listed the following among 
the topics for discussion: "Old and new business" and "Request for Determination of 
Applicability, 237 Wyman Road, Katrina Park, to spread loam in front and rear yard to seed 
lawn, rebuild patio, install electrical line to rear of property and take down spruce tree at rear of 
lot." When the Commission reached the topic regarding 237 Wyman Road, the Commission 
addressed the complainants' allegations and the complainants' attorney, Thomas Callahan, 
participated in the discussion. The Commission also discussed the May 5, 2012 letter from the 
Powers, as well as Chairman Bezanson's response. Mr. Norton recused himself from the 
discussion because was an abutter to the property. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)—(b), 21. The Law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding deliberations 
and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge, 
376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law 
defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of a meeting 
2 
===PAGE 3===
agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of 
reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member 
is expressed." Id. 
Because this is a seven-member Commission, four members constitute a qUorum. We do 
not find evidence to support the assertion that a quorum of the Commission improperly 
deliberated in advance of the May 22, 2012 meeting. Chairman Bezanson individually drafted 
the letter responding to the Powers' May 5, 2012 letter. 3  Although Chairman Bezanson 
discussed the matter outside of a properly posted meeting with Commissioners Connolly and 
Norton, these individual conversations did not constitute deliberation under the Open Meeting 
Law because they did not involve a quorum of the Commission. See  G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
Additionally, we note that Chairman Bezanson and Vice-Chairman Connolly individually visited 
the site before the meeting. Even had a quorum gone together to visit the site, the visit likely 
would not be considered a "meeting," as the Open Meeting Law excludes "an on-site inspection 
of a project or program, so long as the members do not deliberate." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office 
or the Commission. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts 
in this letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Thomas Callahan, Esq., on behalf of April Letourneau, Rodney Powers and Ellen Powers 
Abington Conservation Commission 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3  We note that in his letter, Chairman Bezanson stated that the Commission would discuss the Powers' letter at its 
next meeting, on May 22, 2012. The Powers' letter was not listed as a topic for discussion in the meeting notice. 
We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that notices contain "a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03. Clearly, Chairman 
Bezanson reasonably anticipated this topic for discussion 48 hours in advance of the meeting, therefore he should 
have included it in the notice. See OML 2011-36. 
3 