===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 4, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 119 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Patrick Carr 
Chair, Fairhaven Zoning Board of Appeals 
pjcarr@a1crane.com  
 
 
 Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Carr: 
 
This office received a complaint from Colin Veitch, on behalf of the Fairhaven School 
Committee, on March 25, 2025,
1 alleging that the Fairhaven Zoning Board of Appeals2 (the 
“Board”), and specifically its Chair, Patrick Carr,3 violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about February 21, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by email on April 17.4 The complaint alleges that the notice for 
a February 4 meeting of the Board constituted improper deliberation where it was distributed to a 
quorum of the Board and contained Chair Carr’s opinions regarding a topic listed on the notice. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, the request for further review, and the notice and amended notices for a 
February 4 Board meeting.  
 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 At the time of the events of this complaint, one member of the Board was an employee of the Attorney General’s 
Office; that individual no longer serves on the Board. The complaint contains no allegations that are specific to the 
actions of that individual, and that individual played no role in this office ’s consideration of the complaint. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
4 We remind the Board that unless our office grants an extension of time, it must respond to an Open Meeting Law 
complaint within 14 business days of receipt of the complaint. 940 CMR 29.05(5). If the Board requires additional 
time to resolve a complaint, it may obtain an extension of time from the Attorney General by submitting a written 
request within 14 business days of receiving the complaint. 940 CMR 29.05(5)(b). Here, the Board did not request 
an extension of time until April 16, which was 38 business days after the complaint was filed with the Board. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On January 31 at 12:12 p.m., the Board posted notice 
for a meeting to be held on February 4. The notice stated as follows: 
 
There will be one item on the agenda for all Zoning Board Members to discuss and 
for all Zoning Board members to vote and the subject matter is as follows: 
 
Disciplinary action and removal of Full -Time board member  Amy Goyer. I will 
also add as a subject matter, to all the Zoning Board members to discuss and 
consider sending a written request to the Select Board to reappoint Kenneth Kendal 
returning Kenneth Kendal to his Full-Time status on the Zoning board. I will draft 
and add documentation at the  meeting supporting this disciplinary action and 
removal of Full-Time member Amy Goyer and the reappointing of former  Full-
time Zoning Board member Kenneth Kendal. This is an extremely important 
meeting, and I am requesting all board members be present and to participate. 
 
I am also requesting that the Building Commissioner be  present and participate at 
this meeting and provide supporting documents. 
 
 L ater, at 4:36 p.m., on January 31, the notice was amended to include after the sentence 
“I will draft and add documentation at the meeting supporting this disciplinary action and 
removal of Full-Time member Amy Goyer and the reappointing of former Full-time Zoning 
Board member Kenneth Kendal,” the following: “Depending on the outcome of the Boards [sic] 
decision to move forward with the disciplinary action, if a positive vote is taken, 4/5ths of the 
Full-Time members, the ZBA Board will then seek to have the appointing body (Select Board) at 
their next meeting, decide what action is to be taken.”  
 
 The notice was amended one last time on February 3; however, the amendment is not 
relevant to the issue addressed here. Ultimately, the Board did not hold a meeting on February 4.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body’s deliberations occur during a 
properly noticed meeting that is open to the public, unless one of ten narrow exceptions apply. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18; 20(a); 21. The Law defines “deliberation” as any “oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The definition of 
“deliberation” includes an exception for “the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling 
information or distribution of other procedural meeting [information] or the distribution of 
reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member 
is expressed.” Id. (emphasis added). We have explained that because the Open Meeting Law 
does not restrict an individual’s right to make comments to the general public but rather restricts 
communication between or among a quorum of a public body, the communicator’s intent in 
communicating is significant and must be examined. See OML 2021-66 (comments made by a 
public body member to a member of the public explaining the public body member’s reasoning 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
and concerns did not constitute deliberation); OML 2020-139 (a public body member’s 
comments regarding public body business that were posted to a large Facebook group were 
clearly directed to members of the public and therefore did not constitute deliberation); see also 
OML 2020-19; OML 2023-151.5  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and that the notice include, among other things, a “listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are 
required to list topics in a meeting notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). A notice need not 
include every detail about an anticipated discussion, but the Law requires that notice topics 
include “sufficient specificity” so that the public can decide whether to attend the meeting and 
observe the anticipated discussions. See OML 2025-4; OML 2023-108; OML 2018-22; OML 
2018-7.  
 
 The complaint alleges that the notice for the Board’s planned February 4 meeting 
constituted improper deliberation where it was distributed to a quorum of the Board and 
contained Chair Carr’s opinions regarding the importance of the issues to be discussed and his 
support for a specific outcome regarding those issues. In response, Chair Carr asserts that “the 
verbiage I used [did not] express[] my opinion of the matter, other than I felt it was important for 
all members of the ZBA to be present if possible to review and weigh in on the documentation 
that myself and the building inspector were planning to present at the meeting.”  
 
 We find that the notice for the planned February 4 meeting did not constitute improper 
deliberation. By its very nature, a meeting notice is a communication to the public informing the 
public of, among other things, the topics that are anticipated for discussion at the meeting. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2025-82 (finding notice topics insufficiently specific and explaining 
that “[a]lthough the topics, as listed, may have been meaningful to Committee members and 
regular Committee meeting attendees, we find that they were insufficient to inform members of 
the public unfamiliar with the regular matters before the Committee of the anticipated nature of 
the Committee’s discussions”); OML 2013-55 (same). A public body is required to post notice 
prior to its meetings and such notice must list the topics anticipated for discussion with sufficient 
specificity to allow members of the public to make an informed decision whether to attend the 
meeting and observe the discussions. Although a public body is not required to specify on its 
meeting notices the anticipated course of action for a particular discussion topic, doing so 
provides more information to the public and furthers the Open Meeting Law’s transparency 
goals. See OML 2023-145. We find that the notice for the February 4 meeting did just that—it 
advised the public not only of the general subject matter of the discussion but also of the 
proposal that would be presented. Although some of the language used in the notice may have 
given the appearance of expressing Chair Carr’s opinion, especially as it was written in the first 
person which we acknowledge is unusual for meeting notices, we find that the content of the 
notice was appropriate and did not constitute unlawful deliberation where it provided the public 
with additional detail regarding the anticipated discussion.   
 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 Although we do not find that the meeting notice here constituted improper deliberation, 
we caution that notices may not be used as a vehicle for sharing opinions among a quorum of a 
public body and that on different facts our office could find that the content of a meeting notice 
constitutes improper deliberation.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,      
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:       Colin Veitch, on behalf of the Fairhaven School Committee  
(via email: cveitch@fairhavenps.org)  
 Elisabeth Horan, Fairhaven Town Clerk (via email: ehoran@fairhaven-ma.gov) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
