===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
October 22, 2012 
OML 2012 - 103 
Brian W. Riley, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint Against Stoughton Board of Assessors 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
This office received a complaint from Paula Keefe, dated September 13, 2011, 
alleging that the Stoughton Board of Assessors (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that during the Board's 
March 23, 2011 meeting, the Chair did not state the purpose for entering executive 
session or state whether the Board would return to open session. Additionally, the 
complainant asserts that, during the executive session, the Board did not afford her the 
rights guaranteed by G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The complaint was first filed with the 
Board on April 14, 2011. We did not receive a response to the complaint from the Board, 
but a document that appears to be from the Board, dated May 4, 2011, responding to the 
complaint, was included with the complainant's September 13, 2011 letter to our office.' 
The allegations were also addressed in a letter from Counsel2  to our office, dated 
November 28, 2011. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to post a sufficiently detailed notice for its March 23, 2011 meeting, failing to 
state a purpose for its executive session prior to entering on that same date, discussing an 
anticipated topic in executive session without providing the complainant with the notice 
required under executive session Purpose 1, and by discussing matters in executive 
session that were not appropriate for closed door discussion. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the April 14, 2011 complaint; the May 4, 2011 letter from 
1  We remind the Board of its obligation to respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 business 
days. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). 
2  For purposes of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person. 
1 
0 
===PAGE 2===
the Board provided by the complainant; and the September 13, 2011 complaint. 
Additionally, we reviewed Counsel's November 28, 2011 letter to our office. We also 
reviewed the notice, the draft minutes, and the executive session minutes of the Board's 
March 23, 2011 meeting; the minutes of the Board's May 4, 2011 meeting; and the notice 
for the Board's November 17, 2011 meeting. Finally, we reviewed a series of emails, 
provided by the complainant, which were exchanged between the complainant and 
members of the Board, between March and April 2011. 
FACTS 
The three-member Stoughton Board of Assessors posted notice on March 17, 
2011 for a meeting on March 23, 2011. That notice listed the time, date, and location of 
the meeting, but did not list any topics that the Board anticipated discussing. On March 
23, 2011, the Board met in open session. According to the draft minutes, Board member 
Delores Stanton made a motion at the end of the meeting to enter into executive session. 
The Board voted unanimously to enter into executive session. The minutes do not reflect 
what purpose the Board cited for entering executive session. The draft executive session 
minutes were created, in part or in whole, by the complainant, who at the time was the 
Interim Director of Assessing and responsible for drafting meeting minutes. It does not 
appear that the Board has approved final minutes from this meeting, and the Board has 
disavowed portions of the minutes drafted by the complainant. 
According to the executive session minutes, the Board members entered executive 
session "to discuss fmal applicants for the position of Director of Assessing." The draft 
open session minutes, which the Board has not approved and has disavowed, state that 
the "purpose of the executive session was not stated by the Chairman, as required under 
Chapter 30A, Section 21(b)(3)." It is not clear to what extent the Board actually 
discussed final applicants for the Director of Assessing position during the meeting, 
however, as the minutes do not contain any substance about the discussion on this topic. 
During the executive session, Board Chairman Stanley Zoll mentioned to the other two 
Board members that he had received confidential information about the complainant's 
health and/or job performance, and asked the Board if they wished to hear the 
information he possessed. The complainant was not present during the executive session, 
nor did she receive notice in advance of the meeting that the Chair would raise this topic 
for discussion. At the time, the complainant was the retired Director of Assessing, but 
continued to perform those duties while the Town sought a new director. According to 
the executive session minutes, the Board's May 4, 2011 letter, and Counsel's November 
28, 2011 letter, the other two Board members declined to discuss the issue, and the 
meeting was adjourned with no discussion of the complainant, her health, or her job 
performance. It is not clear when Chair Zoll first learned about the confidential 
information that he intended to bring to the Board, but in an April 13, 2011 email to the 
complainant, Chair Zoll refers to observations he made of the complainant at meetings 
prior to March 23, 2011. There is no evidence that the other two Board members were 
aware of the issue that Chair Zoll brought up or knew ahead of the meeting that he 
intended to raise it. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
On Monday, March 28, 2011, the complainant sent an email to all three Board 
members asking about the executive session. Chair Zoll responded, replying to the 
complainant as well as the other Board members. The complainant then engaged in a 
series of email discussions with individual Board members. On March 31, 2011, Chair 
Zoll sent an email to the complainant, copying the other two Board members, responding 
to the complainant's allegations. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post a notice "of every meeting 
at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice "shall contain the date, time and place of 
such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed 
at the meeting." M. 
A public body may enter executive—or closed—session for any of ten purposes. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Before entering executive session, the chair must "state the purpose 
for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising 
the purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). 
Among the ten purposes is Purpose 1, which allows a public body to enter executive 
session to "discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather 
than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal 
of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or 
individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The individual to be discussed during the executive 
session must be afforded certain rights, including being notified in writing by the public 
body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session and having the opportunity 
to require public body to hold the discussion in open session. Id. Additional rights 
include the right to be present at such executive session during deliberations which 
involve that individual; to have counsel or a representative of her own choosing present 
and attending for the purpose of advising the individual and not for the purpose of active 
participation in the executive session; to speak on her own behalf; and to cause an 
independent record to be created of the executive session by audio-recording or 
transcription, at the individual's expense. Id. A public body may also enter executive 
session under Purpose 8, "to consider or interview applicants for employment or 
appointment by a preliminary screening committee if the chair declares that an open 
meeting will have a detrimental effect in obtaining qualified applicants; provided, 
however, that this clause shall not apply to any meeting, including meetings of a 
preliminary screening committee, to consider and interview applicants who have passed a 
prior preliminary screening." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(8). 
A public body may not deliberate outside of a meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
"Deliberation" is defined, in part, as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction." Id. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
1. The Board Failed to Post a Sufficiently Detailed Notice for its March 23, 2011  
Meeting.  
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to list in its meeting notice "the 
date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." Id. The notice for the Board's March 23, 
2011 meeting failed to list any topics to be discussed. The Board's Counsel states in his 
November 28, 2011 letter that the "Board of Assessors is now aware of the notice 
requirements and is complying with them." 
2. The Board Failed to Cite a Purpose for its March 23, 2011 Executive Session.  
The law requires that before entering into executive session, the chair must "state 
the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(b)(3). The draft minutes of the Board's March 23, 2011 meeting do not reflect any 
purpose cited by the Chair or the Board before entering executive session. According to 
the executive session minutes, the Board members entered executive session "to discuss 
final applicants for the position of Director of Assessing." This is not one of the ten 
purposes for executive session, and it appears that the Board failed to cite any of the ten 
purposes before entering into executive session. 
3. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Discussing a Topic during its 
March 23, 2011 Executive Session Without Providing the Complainant with 
Prior Notice and an Opportunity to be Present.  
The Board met in executive session on March 23, 2011 to discuss final applicants 
for the position of Director of Assessing. During the session, Chair Zoll mentioned to the 
other two Board members that he had confidential information about the complainant's 
health and/or job performance, and asked the Board if they wished to discuss the 
information. Chair Zoll attempted to initiate a discussion of the complainant's 
"reputation, character, physical condition or mental health." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). 
The two other Board members declined to discuss the complainant in executive session, 
and Chair Zoll proceeded no further. It appears that Chair Zoll anticipated raising this 
issue prior to the Board's March 23, 2011 meeting because he received the confidential 
information in advance of the meeting, and decided to raise the topic following his own 
observations of the complainant from Board meetings that occurred prior to March 23, 
2011. Therefore, the meeting notice should have included this anticipated discussion 
topic, and the complainant should have been given 48 hours written notice of the 
executive session topic. While the Board failed to provide the complainant with the 
rights guaranteed to her by Purpose 1, we find that the harm to the complainant was 
minimal because the Board did not actually discuss or take any action on the issue. The 
Board engaged in no substantive discussion, and took no action. Furthermore, the Board 
acknowledged its error in its May 4, 2011 letter, as well as in Counsel's November 28, 
2011 letter, and pledged to follow the correct procedures in the future. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
4. The Board Met in Executive Session for an Unlawful Purpose during its 
March 23, 2011 Meeting.  
According to the Board's draft minutes for its March 23, 2011 meeting, the Board 
met in executive session "to discuss final applicants for the position of Director of 
Assessing." A public body may not discuss finalists for a position in executive session. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(8); OML 2011-34.3  Counsel explains in his November 28, 2011 
letter that, pursuant to the Stoughton Town Charter, the position of Director of Assessing 
is filled by appointment of the Town Manager. The Board of Assessors was asked by the 
Town Manager to provide input and recommendations on the applicants for the position. 
Counsel argues that the Board was acting as a screening committee for the Town 
Manager, bringing the Board within the Connelly exception, and therefore not subject to 
the Open Meeting Law. Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 
(1991). In Connelly, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court ruled that where an 
individual public official creates an informal committee to advise that person on a 
decision that he or she has the sole authority to make, that committee is not subject to the 
Open Meeting Law. Connelly, 409 Mass. at 235. That exception does not apply here. 
The Board members were asked to provide an opinion on candidates for the Director of 
Assessing position because of their role as members of the Board of Assessors, and were 
meeting as the Board, not as part of an informal group created by the Town Manager. 
Even if the Board was not empowered to make the ultimate hiring decision, the topic 
clearly fell within the jurisdiction of the Board. Because a quorum of the Board was 
discussing matters within its jurisdiction, they were required to comply with the Open 
Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
Counsel alternatively suggests that the Board could have been acting as a 
preliminary screening committee. Executive Session Purpose 8 permits a public body to 
"consider or interview applicants for employment or appointment by a preliminary 
screening committee if the chair declares that an open meeting will have a detrimental 
effect in obtaining qualified applicants; provided, however, that this clause shall not 
apply to any meeting, including meetings of a preliminary screening committee, to 
consider and interview applicants who have passed a prior preliminary screening." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a)(8). A "preliminary screening" is defined as "the initial stage of screening 
applicants conducted by a committee or subcommittee of a public body solely for the 
purpose of providing to the public body a list of those applicants qualified for further 
consideration or interview." Because the Board as a whole was meeting, and therefore 
was not acting as "a committee or subcommittee of a public body," it could not have been 
a preliminary screening committee. 
Finally, while not alleged in the complaint, we note concerns about certain email 
communications between Chair Zoll and the complainant on which other Board members 
were copied. We caution the Board to avoid communication over email between or 
among a quorum of the members of the Board on matters within the Board's jurisdiction, 
3  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
5 
===PAGE 6===
as this constitutes deliberation outside of an open meeting, which is prohibited by the 
Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2012-67; OML 2011-37. The Board 
members must ensure that email communications regarding public business do not 
include a quorum of the Board. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post a 
sufficiently detailed notice for its March 23, 2011 meeting, failing to state a purpose for 
its executive session prior to entering on that same date, discussing an anticipated topic in 
executive session without providing the complainant with the notice required under 
executive session Purpose 1, and by discussing matters in executive session that were not 
appropriate for closed door discussion. We order the Board's immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law. Similar future violations may be considered 
evidence of an intentional violation of the law. 
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this 
letter, please do not hesitate to contact me at the number below. 
J nathan Sclarsic 
/ Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Paula Keefe 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or 
any member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through 
an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
6 