===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 14, 2015 
OML 2015-188 
Melissa Mazzeo 
President 
Pittsfield City Council 
70 Allen St. 
Pittsfield, MA 01201 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear President Mazzeo: 
This office received two complaints from Terry Kinnas, both dated August 25, alleging 
that the Pittsfield City Council (the "Council") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §£ 
18-25.1 Specifically, the complaints allege that the Council failed to include a listing of 
anticipated discussion topics in the notices for its June 2 and June 4 meetings. The original 
complaints were filed with the Council on June 2 and June 9, respectively. The Council 
responded to the first complaint by letter dated June 9, and to the second complaint by letter 
dated June 23. 
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaints filed with the Council, the 
Council's responses, and the complaints filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed the 
notices for the Council's June 2 and June 4 meetings. Finally, we spoke with City Clerk Linda 
Tyer by telephone in September. 
We find the facts as follows. The Council filed notices for its June 2 and June 4 meetings 
with the City Clerk. The Clerk posted the notices, which included anticipated discussion topics, 
outside the Clerk's office. While the notices were also posted to the municipal website and to an 
electronic bulletin board that displayed the notices to the public at all hours, the notices posted in 
those locations did not include the listing of anticipated discussion topics. The City has not 
adopted an alternative notice posting location in accordance with 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b). On June 
FACTS 
1 All dates refer to the year 2015. 
===PAGE 2===
3, after the first complaint was filed with the Council, the Council updated its June 4 meeting 
notice on the website and electronic bulletin board to include the listing of topics. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of every meeting, and 
include a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). For meetings of a local public body, notice must be filed with the 
municipal clerk and posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on 
the municipal building in which the clerk's office is located. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c). If such notice 
is not conspicuously visible to the public during hours when the clerk's office is closed, such 
notice shall also be made available through an alternative method prescribed or approved by the 
Attorney General under 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b). One such alternative authorizes a municipality to 
"place a computer monitor or electronic or physical bulletin board displaying meeting notices on 
or in a door, window, or near the entrance of the municipal building in which the clerk's office is 
located in such a manner as to be visible to the public from outside the building." 940 CMR 
29.03(2)(b)(d). Another alternative involves adopting the municipal website as the official 
notice posting location. 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b)(a). If an alternative posting method is adopted, 
the municipal clerk must file with the Attorney General written notice of adoption of the 
alternative method. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(c). The City of Pittsfield has not notified the Attorney 
General of its adoption of any alternative notice posting location. 
With respect to the present complaint, there are two relevant components of a properly 
posted notice. First, the notice must contain all required information, including a listing of 
anticipated discussion topics. Second, the notice must be posted in a location that is visible to 
the public at all hours. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). None of the notices posted for the two meetings at 
issue satisfied both requirements. The notices containing the anticipated topics were not posted 
in a location that was visible to the public at all hours. The notices that were posted to locations 
visible at all hours did not contain the anticipated discussion topics. Therefore, we find that the 
notices for the Council's two meetings failed to comply with the requirements of the Open 
Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b), (c). We note that, after the first complaint was filed, 
the Council updated its June 4 notice on the website and electronic bulletin board to include the 
anticipated topics for discussion. However, amending a meeting notice within the 48 hour period 
to add topics that were reasonably anticipated is not sufficient to remedy the deficiencies in a 
meeting notice. See OML 2013-23.2 The Council should have cancelled its June 4 meeting and 
reposted its notice, rather than update it with the anticipated discussion topics.3 
As a final matter, while we acknowledge that the City's electronic bulletin board is 
visible to the public at all hours in or on the municipal building in which the clerk's office is 
located, these types of monitors are nevertheless considered an alternative notice posting method. 
940 CMR 29.03(2)(b)(d). We acknowledge that there is some ambiguity in reading sections 940 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 In contrast, we have said that, where a topic arises after a notice is posted that was not reasonably anticipated 48 
hours in advance of the meeting, if it must be addressed at the next meeting, public bodies should update the notice 
to give the public as much notice as possible. See OML 2012-19; OML 2012-85. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CMR 29.03(2)(a) and 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b)(d) together, thus we do not find the City's failure to 
notify us of its adoption of an alternative posting method violated the law. However, if the City 
wishes to continue using either its electronic bulletin board or its website as its primary notice 
posting location, it must notify the Attorney General in writing of its adoption of an alternative 
posting method. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(c). 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include a listing of 
anticipated discussion topics in the notices for its June 2 and June 4 meetings. We order the 
Council's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution the 
Council that similar future violation may be considered evidence of an intentional violation of 
the law. 
We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve 
any other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Council. Please feel free to 
contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Linda Tyer, Pittsfield City Clerk 
Terry Kinnas 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 