===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
wwvv.mass.gov/ago 
September 8, 2017 
OML 2017-142 
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received three complaints from Robert Belbin on April 25 alleging that the 
Carver Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1 The complaints were originally filed with the Board on March 6; and you responded, on 
behalf of the Board, by letter dated March 23.2 The complaints allege that the notices for the 
Board's February 7, February 21, and February 28 meetings lacked sufficient detail. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board's response to the 
complaints, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed 
the notices of and open session minutes from the Board's February 7, February 21, and February 
28 meetings; the executive session minutes from the Board's February 7 and February 28 
meetings; and the open session minutes from the Board's March 21 meeting. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on 
February 7. The notice listed, among other topics, an anticipated executive session described as 
follows; "Executive Session—(Exemption #2, 3, 6) Motion; Move to go into Executive Session 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 The March 23 letter only responds to Mr. Belbin's complaints regarding the February 7 and February 28 meeting 
notices but not the February 21 meeting notice. We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that 
within 14 days of receipt of a complaint, the public body must review the complaint's allegations; take remedial 
action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial 
action taken. G.L. c, 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining negotiations with unions (Clerical, DPW, 
Dispatchers, PEC/IAC-Health Care, Police) and for non-union negotiations with all non-union 
personnel not under contract, and strategy for litigation, and for purchase, exchange, lease or 
value of real estate that may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the town if 
held in open session, and to reconvene in open session for purpose of adjournment." 
The February 7 meeting was held as planned. The Board approved a unanimous vote by 
roll call to convene in executive session "to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining 
negotiations with unions (DPW, Dispatchers), and strategy for litigation, and for purchase, 
exchange, lease or value of real estate that may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining 
position of the town if held in open session, and not to reconvene in open session." Because the 
Board has not publicly released the minutes of this executive session, we do not recount their 
content in detail here. However, we note that the Board discussed benefit packages for the 
dispatchers and the department of public works employees. The Board did not discuss any 
litigation or real estate matters. 
The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on February 21. The notice listed, 
among other topics, an anticipated executive session described as follows: "Executive Session— 
(Exemption #2, 3, 6) Motion: Move to go into Executive Session to discuss strategy with respect 
to collective bargaining negotiations with unions (Clerical, DPW, Dispatchers, PEC/IAC-Health 
Care, Police) and for non-union negotiations with all non-union personnel not under contract, 
and strategy for litigation, and for purchase, exchange, lease or value of real estate that may have 
a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the town if held in open session, and to 
reconvene in open session for purpose of adjournment." The Board ultimately did not enter 
executive session. 
The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on February 28. The notice listed, 
among other topics, an anticipated executive session described as follows: "Executive Session— 
(Exemption #2, 3, 6) Motion: Move to go into Executive Session to discuss strategy with respect 
to collective bargaining negotiations with unions (Clerical, DPW, Dispatchers, PEC/IAC-Health 
Care, Police) and for non-union negotiations with all non-union personnel not under contract, 
and strategy for litigation, and for purchase, exchange, lease or value of real estate that may have 
a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the town if held in open session, and to 
reconvene in open session for purpose of adjournment." 
The February 28 meeting was held as planned. The Board approved a unanimous vote by 
roll call to convene in executive session "to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining 
negotiations with the DPW union and to reconvene in open session only for the purposes of 
adjournment." Because the Board has not publicly released the minutes of this executive 
session, we do not recount their content in detail here. However, we note that the Board 
discussed the DPW contract. At its next meeting on March 21, the Board approved the DPW 
contract in open session. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post 
notice of each meeting and include in that notice a "listings of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies must list 
topics for discussion with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to 
be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). Executive session topics must be 
described, both in the meeting notice and in an announcement during open session, in as much 
detail as possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. 
See District Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. Of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 ("[a] precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting 
law because that is the only notification given to the public that the school committee would 
conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so 
was proper or improper."); see G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b), 21(b)(3); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We 
generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public 
could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See 
OML 2015-35.3 
The complaints allege that the Board's meeting notices for February 7, February 21, and 
February 28 were not sufficiently detailed because they did not adequately describe the topics to 
be discussed in executive session. A public body may enter executive session under Purpose 2 
"[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to 
conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. 
c. 3OA, § 21(a)(2). Another purpose. Purpose 3, allows a public body to enter into executive 
session to "discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting 
may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the 
chair so declares." G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(a)(3). When convening in executive session pursuant to 
Purpose 2 or Purpose 3, a public body must identify the nonunion personnel or collective 
bargaining unit with whom it will be negotiating, if doing so will not compromise the purpose 
for secrecy. See OML 2013-151; OML 2016-43; OML 2017-53. 
Both the notices for February 7 and February 28 identified the nonunion personnel and 
collective bargaining units to be discussed—DPW and Dispatchers. In addition, prior to 
convening in executive session on both February 7 and February 28, the Board clarified the 
reasons for entering executive session and identified the specific nonunion personnel and 
collective bargaining units. Specifically, the Board stated that it was convening in executive 
session on February 7 to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining negotiations with 
the DPW and Dispatchers unions; and on February 28, the Board stated that it was convening in 
executive session to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining negotiations with the 
DPW union. During the February 7 meeting, the Board discussed strategy regarding contract 
negotiations with both the DPW and Dispatchers. During the February 28 meeting, the Board 
discussed the DPW contract. The discussions on February 7 and February 28 fit squarely within 
the ambits of either Purpose 2 or Purpose 3. G.L. c. 3 OA, §§ 21(a)(2), (3). Accordingly, we find 
that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
With respect to the February 21 notice, we find no violation regarding the sufficiency of 
the executive session topic listed on that notice because the Board did not convene in executive 
session. When a public body does not actually deliberate on a noticed topic, the public body 
cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to that topic, even if it would have been 
insufficiently detailed had the public body proceeded with its deliberation. See OML 2015-63; 
OML 2014-81. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
KerryArme Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Robert Belbin 
Carver Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 