===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 28, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 95 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Jim Burns 
Chair, Harvard Conservation Commission 
15 Elm Street  
Harvard, MA 01451 
  
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Burns: 
 
This office received a complaint from Deborah Skauen-Hinchliffe on May 7,
1 alleging 
that the Harvard Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on or about 
April 7, and Eve Wittenberg responded on behalf of the Commission by letter dated April 24. 
The complaint alleges that the Commission entered executive session for an improper purpose at 
a meeting it held on April 3. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, 
the Commission’s response, and the request for further review. We also reviewed the notice of 
the April 3 meeting and viewed a recording of the April 3 open session.
2  Finally, we reviewed in 
camera the executive session minutes of the April 3 meeting. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Commission posted notice of a meeting to take 
place on April 3 that included as a topic: 
 
Executive Session pursuant to Massachusetts General Law Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(6) 
to consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property because a public 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 We accessed the recording at https://vimeo.com/harvardmediacooperative.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
discussion of this matter could have detrimental effects on the negotiating position only 
to return to the open session of the public meeting  
 
When the Commission reached the executive session topic,3 the chair announced that the 
purpose of the executive session was to discuss a grant available to cover administrative costs 
associated with the purchase of property.  The properties to which the grant might be applied 
were not referenced.  Instead, the chair indicated that the properties were on a list which the 
Open Space Committee prioritized for future acquisition. She stated that if the Commission 
wished to discuss specific properties, it would need to enter executive session. According to the 
chair, “the potential sellers have an interest in not revealing their desire to sell so there’s 
sensitivity around the acquisitions and we want to keep that part in executive session.” The chair 
did not state that discussing the matter in open session may have a detrimental effect on the 
negotiating position of the Commission, nor that the Commission had a negotiating position to 
protect. Following the announcement, the Commission voted to enter executive session.  
 
During the executive session, Conservation Agent Liz Allard explained to the 
Commission that owners of a certain property had told her that they were interested in preserving 
the property in some manner.  Ms. Allard learned of a grant that could be used to secure an 
appraisal of this property, the next step for the owners as they consider their options. The 
Commission discussed the possibility of applying for the grant for this appraisal, while the Open 
Space Committee, meanwhile, would apply for a second grant to fund a site plan on property that 
it was working to preserve. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body must be conducted in 
an open s
ession unless a closed-door executive session is convened for one of ten permissible 
purposes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, a public body may 
meet in executive session “[t]o consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if 
the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position 
of the public body” (“Purpose 6”).  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6). When meeting in executive session, 
a public body may only address subjects related to the narrow executive session purpose the 
public body cited when entering executive session. See Dist. Att’y for N.W. Dist. V. Selectmen 
of Sunderland, 11 Mass. App. Ct. 663, 666 (1981). Purpose 6, narrowly construed, permits a 
public body to meet in executive session to protect its negotiating position when seeking to 
purchase, exchange, or lease real estate, or to discuss the value of real estate where it has a 
negotiating position relative to that property. See, G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6); Allen v. Board of 
Selectmen of Belmont, 58 Mass. App. Ct. 715, 719-721 (2003); OML 2019-143; OML 2016-
50.4 Purpose 6 is intended to preserve confidentiality in negotiating the value of the property to 
be purchased. See Id.; OML 2016-50; OML 2019-10. The public body bears the burden of 
demonstrating applicability of the claimed executive session purpose. See Dist. Att’y for the N. 
Dist. v. School Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 566 (2009).  
 
 
3 The executive session was reached at approximately 14:50 in the recording. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website,  https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Discussions under Purpose 6 must relate directly to the purchase, exchange, lease, or 
value
 of real property where confidentiality is necessary to protect a public body’s negotiating 
position. See OML 2022-119; OML 2021-62. The proper application of Purpose 6 is to protect a 
public body’s negotiating position vis-a-vis other parties to a transaction, not to escape the 
inconvenience of public scrutiny or opposition. See OML 2023-241; OML 2023-81. General 
discussions regarding real property or the use of real property, where there is no negotiating 
position to protect, do not fall within Purpose 6. See OML 2023-81; OML 2016-93; OML 2012-
98 (“Potential uses for land and whether or not to go ahead with a project are not proper 
discussions under Purpose 6.”). 
 
Aft
er review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
entered executive session, purportedly under Purpose 6, without declaring that an open session 
may have a detrimental effect on its negotiating position, and when it discussed matters other 
than the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property while in executive session. 
 
First, when announcing the purpose of the executive session, the chair did not state that 
an open session may have a detrimental effect on the Commission’s negotiating position.  
Nothing that was stated immediately prior to entering executive session suggested that the 
Commission even had a negotiating position to protect. Instead, the chair stated that “the 
potential sellers have an interest in not revealing their desire to sell so there’s sensitivity around 
the acquisitions and we want to keep that part in executive session.” Discussions at later 
meetings are consistent with this flawed reasoning. In reviewing the Open Meeting Law 
complaint at its April 17 meeting, the Commission discussed its position that “if the property 
owners come to the Commission to discuss their specific property, the conversation is 
confidential and therefore these details would need to be discussed in Executive Session.” 
Similarly, when reviewing a public records request for the April 3 executive session minutes at 
its May 8 meeting, the Commission decided not to release those minutes because release would 
“jeopardize the Commission’s position regarding future land acquisition” and because release of 
the executive session minutes “may hinder progress and possibly upset any landowners whose 
properties are being considered for possible acquisition.”  Because the Commission failed to 
declare that an open session discussion may have a detrimental effect on its negotiating position 
(nor does it appear such a statement would be accurate regardless), the Commission violated the 
Open Meeting Law. 
 
Furthermore, the executive session discussion itself did not fall within the confines of 
executive session Purpose 6.  The Commission did not discuss the purchase, exchange, lease or 
value of land. Instead, it discussed a grant that may be available for the Commission to secure an 
appraisal for one property, and for the Open Space Committee to secure a site plan for another 
property. The Commission was not engaged in negotiations with the property owners.  If 
anything, it appears that the Commission was assisting the property owners in their efforts to 
preserve their property.   
 
Purpose 6 is to be narrowly construed.  See OML 2019-89 (discussion of community host 
agreement falls outside scope of Purpose 6).  Discussion of a grant and sensitivity to property 
owners’ desire for secrecy do not fall within the narrow permissible scope of a Purpose 6 
discussion. The Commission did not discuss the value or acquisition of the subject properties.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Rather, the discussion centered on a newly discovered grant and how it could be used to secure 
an appraisal and site plan of the properties.   
 
We acknowledge that there may be legitimate reasons that a property owner wishes to 
guard against public disclosure of their evolving plans for their property.  A public body may 
also prefer to discuss such plans behind closed doors so as to not compromise its lines of 
communication with property owners.  However, the Open Meeting Law explicitly limits 
Purpose 6 to those occasions when the public body is considering the “purchase, exchange, lease 
or value” of a specific piece of property and only when “the chair declares that an open meeting 
may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body.” In this instance, 
the Commission entered executive session not to protect its negotiating position as a public body 
but rather discuss the best use of a grant and to respect the owners’ wishes for confidentiality.  
As such, the Commission entered executive session for an improper purpose. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Ope n Meeting 
Law when it entered executive session for an improper purpose on April 3. We order the Board’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law. In addition, we order the 
Commission to release to the public the minutes of the April 3 executive session, in their entirety 
and without redactions, and to certify that it has done so within 30 days of the date of this 
letter.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f) (“the minutes of any executive session ... may be withheld from 
disclosure to the public in their entirety ... as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes 
of the executive session, but no longer; provided, however, that the executive session was held in 
compliance with section 21.”).  
 
We now co
nsider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Commission 
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
Assisted by Dariana Noyola, Legal Intern  
 
cc: Rose Miranda, Town Clerk  (via email: rmiranda@harvard.ma.us)  
 Liz Allard, Chair (lallard@harvard-ma.gov)  
Deborah Skauen -Hinchliffe, (via email: )  

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 