===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
June 14, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 115 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Joseph Emerson, Esq.  
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Emerson: 
This office received a complaint from Cleonie Mainvielle on February 15, 2022, alleging 
that the Bridgewater-Raynham Regional School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on 
January 10, 2022, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated January 28, 
2022. In her complaint, Ms. Mainvielle alleges that 1) the Committee discussed an improper 
topic during a December 29, 2021, executive session, and 2) the Committee’s notice for a 
December 29, 2021, meeting was insufficiently specific.  
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to 
the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed the notice of 
the Committee’s December 29 meeting and a public letter in which the Committee addressed the 
complaints made against the Superintendent.  
DISCUSSION 
1. The Committee properly discussed complaints against the Superintendent and the 
Committee’s response to those complaints during a December 29 executive session.  
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much  of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. One such statutory purpose for executive session is to discuss 
“the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or 
charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”). 
 Ms. Mainvielle alleges that the Committee’s discussion of complaints against the 
Superintendent during the December 29 executive session should not also have included a 
discussion of the Committee’s response to the complaints.1 We disagree. We have stated that a 
public body may discuss what action it plans to take in response to a complaint during a Purpose 
1 executive session. See OML 2021-188; OML 2021-143.2 For example, we found that a public 
body permissibly discussed the contents of a letter of expectations for a public official about 
whom the public body was reviewing complaints. See OML 2022-1.  
 Here, the Committee discussed various complaints about whether the Superintendent was 
suitable to remain in his position in light of rumors circulating in the school community about the 
Superintendent’s personal life. In response to the complaints, the Committee discussed issuing a 
public letter in support of the Superintendent and clarifying that the Committee would not 
investigate unsubstantiated allegations.3 We find that discussion of the public letter was part of 
the Committee’s discussion of how to respond to the complaints. Therefore, we find that the 
Committee’s discussions during the December 29 executive session were proper under Purpose 1 
and the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
2. The notice for the Committee’s December 29 meeting was sufficiently specific.  
 Ms. Mainvielle alleges that the Committee’s notice did not describe the anticipated 
December 29 executive session with sufficient detail. Executive session topics must be 
described, both in the meeting notice and in an announcement during open session, in as much 
detail as possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). In addition, before entering executive session, a public body’s chair 
must state the purpose for the executive session, including all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 
(“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary under the 
open meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public that the school Board 
would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for 
doing so was proper or improper.”). This level of detail about the executive session topic should 
also be included in the meeting notice. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2018-69. 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
3 To the extent that the complaint alleges that the Committee deliberated outside of a posted meeting when writing 
this public letter, we find no evidence of a violation of the Open Meeting Law. A “deliberation” is defined as “an 
oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a 
public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (emphasis added). The Committee 
explains that the Chair alone drafted the public letter, which was issued on December 31, based on the feedback 
received from the Committee members during the December 29 executive session. As only one member drafted the 
letter, based on the Committee’s discussion during a posted meeting, we find no evidence of deliberation outside of 
a meeting. See OML 2018-141.  
===PAGE 3===
Here, the Committee provided the required level of specificity in its meeting notice
regarding the December 29 executive session. The notice specified that the Committee would
first convene in open session and then vote to enter into executive session "[t]o discuss
complaints or charges brought against the superintendent, a public officer, employee, stati
member or individual." As the Committee identified the individual to be discussed-the
Superintendent—and also specified it would discuss complaints or charges, we find that the
Committee's notice was sufficient in this respect.
In addition, the notice's clearly refenced the statutory language of Purpose 1, and
therefore sufficiently advised the public under which purpose the Committee intended to
convene its executive session. See OML 2021-24 ("While a public body is not required to
provide the specific statutory citation of the executive session it plans to convene under, the
public body must at least provide a sufficient description of the executive session purpose.").
Therefore, we find that the Committee's notice was sufficiently specific, and did not violate the
Open Meeting Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 it you have any
questions.
CC:
Sincerely,
Sand Mak
Sarah Monahan
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
Cleonie Mainvielle (via e-mail
Bridgewater-Raynham Regional School District Committee c/o Chair Rachel King
(via e-mail:
3
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 