===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
March 1, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 24 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Daniel P. Garvey, Esq. 
City of Chicopee Law Department  
dgarvey@chicopeema.gov 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Garvey: 
 
This office received a complaint from Lisa Bienvenue on January 24, 2023, alleging that 
the Chicopee City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about November 15, 2022,
1 and, 
after an extension of time granted by this office, you responded on behalf of the Council by letter 
dated December 19. The complaint alleges that the Council posted an insufficiently specific 
notice for its November 15 meeting. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Council’s response, the request for further review, the notice and minutes for a November 7 
meeting of the Council’s Ordinance Committee, the notice for the Council’s November 15 
meeting, and the minutes and video recording of the Council’s November 15 meeting.
2  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On November 2, the Council’s Ordinance Committee 
(the “Committee”) posted notice for a meeting to be held on November 7. The notice included 
the topic “Chapter 7 Ordinance Revisions” under which were listed various city positions—
including, in “Group 1,” the Mayor, President of the Council, City Councilors, Vice Chair of the 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the Council’s November 15 meeting can be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0VeKHJLtO9I. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
School Committee, and School Committee members—and proposed salary increases associated 
with each position. During the Committee’s November 7 meeting the Committee discussed 
increasing the salaries of the positions under Group 1 as well as whether and how to implement 
an automatic salary increase for those positions. Ultimately, the Committee voted to amend 
Chapter 7 of the City’s ordinances to increase the salaries of the positions under Group 1. The 
Committee also voted that Group 1 employees be entitled to receive longevity pay and that the 
salaries of the Mayor, Treasurer, Collector, Clerk, Assessor, President of the City Council, City 
Councilors, Vice Chairman of the School Committee, and School Committee members be 
adjusted every three years based on the salary increases negotiated under the Administrative 
Employees Collective Bargaining Agreement.  
 
 On November 10 the Council posted notice for a meeting to be held on November 15. 
Included on the notice was the topic “A favorable Ordinance Committee report: Chapter 7 
Ordinance Revisions.” The notice included no additional information regarding this topic. 
 
The Council met on November 15 as scheduled. During the notice topic “A favorable 
Ordinance Committee report: Chapter 7 Ordinance Revisions,” Councilor James Tillotson 
moved to approve the proposed salary increases for City Councilors and School Committee 
members, effective January 1, 2024. Thereafter, the Council discussed in detail whether to 
approve the salary increases, ultimately voting to approve the increases.
3 
 
Next, Councilor Tillotson moved that the Council approve a plan whereby salaries for the 
Mayor, Treasurer, Collector, Clerk, Assessor, President of the City Council, City Councilors, 
Vice Chairman of the School Committee, and School Committee members would be adjusted 
every three years based on the salary increases negotiated under the Administrative Employees 
Collective Bargaining Agreement. After some remarks from Councilor Tillotson raising his 
concerns with this approach, Councilor Gary Labrie moved to send the issue back to the 
Committee for a public hearing. Thereafter, the Council discussed in detail how to approach 
raising the salaries at issue going forward. The Council ultimately voted to send the issue back to 
the Committee for further consideration.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the s
 ecrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). To that end, a public body must post notice of every 
meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(b). Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed at the meeting.” Id. The listing of topics must have sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public 
 
3 We note that the minutes of the Council’s November 15 meeting fail to record votes by roll call. When one or more 
members of a public body participates in a meeting remotely, all votes must be taken by roll ca ll. 940 CMR 
29.10(7)(c). Although the Council took roll call votes during the meeting, the votes are not recorded by roll call in 
the minutes. See OML 2021-128 (“Even unanimous votes need to be recorded by roll call in the minutes.”).  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See 
OML 2019-77; OML 2015-35.4  
 
The complaint alleges that the notice topic, “A favorable Ordinance Committee report: 
Chapter 7 Ordinance Revisions,” was insufficiently specific to reasonably inform the public that 
the Council would discuss salary increases for City Councilors and other City officials. The 
Council acknowledges that this notice topic was insufficient to inform a reasonable member of 
the public of the discussions to be held.  
 
Although the Council acknowledges this deficiency, it has taken no steps to remedy the 
violation. Instead, the Council explains in its response that: 
 
We have met with the Auditing Department, City Council staff, the Mayor’s Office, 
and the Clerk’s Office to review the importance of describing agenda items in a 
way which allows a reasonable person to understand the item to be discussed 
without having to seek information beyond the agenda itself.
   
 
We are confident that these discussions with our various departments will result in 
future descriptions properly referencing all agenda items to be discussed.   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a meeting notice lists topics with sufficient 
specificity so that the public can make an informed decision whether to attend the 
meeting in order to observe the discussion regarding a topic of interest. The public was 
denied this notice and opportunity with respect to the topic at issue here. Therefore, we 
find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged.  
 
Additionally, although we would find the notice topic insufficient regardless, we 
note that the website link that the City describes as being the location of “[t]he complete 
City Charter and current ordinances” does not include Chapter 7 of the City’s ordinances. 
Therefore, even if a member of the public had sought information beyond the notice, it 
appears that they may not have been able to easily access information regarding Chapter 
7.
5  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting insufficient notice that it would discuss salary increases for City Councilors and other 
City officials. We order the Council’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law and caution that future similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
Law. Additionally, because the public was denied notice of the planned discussions and 
decisions, which have not yet taken effect, we order nullification of the Council’s November 15 
votes regarding salary increases. Specifically, we nullify the Council’s vote approving salary 
increases as well as the Council’s vote to send the issue of automatic salary increases back to the 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 See https://www.chicopeema.gov/324/Common-Ordinances (visited Jan. 26 and Feb. 2, 2023). 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Committee for further consi deration. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c)(3). Should the Council choose to 
discuss and vote on salary increases for City Councilors and other City officials again, we 
remind the Council that it must first post adequate notice that it will discuss this topic.   
 
We now c
onsider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Frank Laflamme, President, Chicopee City Council ( via email: 
flaflamme@chicopeema.gov) 
Carla Rovelli-Grace, Clerk, Chicopee City Council (via email: cgrace@chicopeema.gov) 
Agnes Czarniecki, Administrative Assistant, Chicopee City Council (via email: 
aczarniecki@chicopeema.gov) 
Keith Rattell, Chicopee City Clerk (via email: krattell@chicopeema.gov) 
Lisa Bienvenue (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
