===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
 
February  6, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 13 
 
VIA E-MAIL 
 
Alexander M. Castro, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa LLC 
alex@mtclawyers.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Castro: 
This office received two complaints from Stephen Morgan on July 27 and August 5, 
2022, alleging that the Ashland Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The first complaint was originally filed with the Board on June 12 and 
alleges that the notice for the Board’s March 2 meeting was insufficiently specific where 
multiple votes were taken during the executive session but only one was included on the meeting 
notice; that the Board lacked a proper purpose for convening in executive session; and that the 
minutes for the Board’s March 2 executive session failed to include a list of documents used.  
The second complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 6 and you responded, on 
behalf of the Board, on August 5, pursuant to an extension of time granted by this office.  The 
second complaint alleges that the Board did not properly respond to the first complaint.  
 
In resolving the complaints, we reviewed the original complaints, the response to the 
second complaint, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review.  We also 
reviewed correspondence between the Complainant and the Town Clerk.  Finally, we reviewed 
the notice and minutes for the Board’s March 2 meeting.  We find that the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law by initially approving meeting minutes that did not include a list of 
documents used during the meeting and by failing to properly respond to the first complaint. 
 
  
 
1 Except where indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2022. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board posted notice for a meeting to take place on 
March 2 at 6:45 p.m.2  The first topic on the notice was “Executive Session Pursuant to G.L. c. 
30A sec 21(a)(2) to ratify the Memorandum of Agreement between the Town of Ashland and the 
Police Union.”  The Board convened its meeting as scheduled.  The Board voted by roll call to 
enter executive session.  During the executive session, the Town Manager reported that an 
agreement had been reached with the Ashland Police Union.  He explained the pay adjustment 
provisions and other benefit changes.  The Board then voted by roll call to approve the 
Memorandum of Agreement.  Thereafter, the Board voted by roll call to adjourn. 
 
The Complainant filed the first Open Meeting Law complaint on June 12.  On June 13, 
the Board’s executive assistant acknowledged to the Complainant by email that the 
Memorandum of Agreement had inadvertently been omitted as a document used from the March 
2 executive session meeting minutes; she represented that the minutes had been updated and 
submitted to the Town Clerk for posting.  The executive assistant also explained that only one 
vote had taken place during the meeting regarding the agreement; the other votes were to enter 
executive session and to adjourn.  Finally, the executive assistant explained that the executive 
session was appropriate because the agreement still required the Board’s approval.  On June 14, 
the Town Clerk reached out to the Complainant to inquire whether he considered the issues 
raised in the complaint resolved; she received no response.  On June 30, the Board’s executive 
assistant also reached out to the Complainant to inquire whether he needed anything further; she 
received no response.  The Complainant then filed the second Open Meeting Law complaint, 
alleging that the Board did not properly respond to the first complaint. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board Vi
 olated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Include a List of 
Documents Used in the March 2 Executive Session Meeting Minutes but Did Not 
Violate the Law in the Other Ways Alleged. 
 
Specificity of Meeting Notice 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body
 post notice of every meeting which 
“shall contain ... a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
 
2 The Board posted two separate notices for meetings to take place on March 2 at 6:45 p.m.:  a notice for the full 
meeting, the first listed topic of which was the executive session, as well as a second notice for an executive session  
that included only one topic, the same executive topic as the first notice.  The posting of a separate meeting notice 
for an executive session that is already included on the other meeting notice is likely confusing to the public ; there is 
no need to post a separate meeting notice for a single topic that is already encompassed in a notice for the full 
meeting.  Moreover, the second notice, which included only an executive session, contained no indication to the 
public that the Board would first convene in open session.  When the only business to be discussed during an open 
session is the procedural requirements for entering executive session, listing “open session” on the meeting notice is 
the only means by which members of the public are informed that a public body will, in fact, hold an open meeting 
that they are permitted to attend.  See OML 2016-149 (Ashland Select Board); OML 2015-105; OML 2013-9.  
Without such notice, members of the public are essentially denied the opportunit y to attend and learn the reasons for 
the executive session.  See OML 2016-149; OML 2013-195.   
===PAGE 3===
3 
meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  These topics must be listed with “sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 
940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body's discussion.  See OML 2019-70.
3  A public body need not list each and every 
detail about a topic in order to comply with the law's requirements.  See OML 2019-134.  Nor 
does the Open Meeting Law require a public body to anticipate the course of deliberation or the 
outcome of a discussion, only that it identify the anticipated discussion topic with sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  See G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2019-102; OML 2017-186; OML 2014-38. 
 
The c
omplaint alleges that the March 2 meeting notice was “not complete or unclear” 
where multiple votes were taken during the executive session yet only one was listed on the 
meeting notice.  We disagree.  Notwithstanding the Board’s use of the terms “Memorandum of 
Agreement,” “contract,” and “MOU” interchangeably in the meeting minutes, we nonetheless 
find the minutes accurate and clear that the first vote was a vote to enter executive session,
4 the 
second vote was a vote to approve the Memorandum of Agreement, and the third vote was a vote 
to adjourn.  Therefore, the meeting notice was sufficiently specific to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed in the executive session, and the Board did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law in this regard. 
 
Purpose for Entering Executive Session 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open ses
sion, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  A public body may enter an 
executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law 
provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of members of the body 
have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and 
entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether the open session will 
reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 
2014-94.  One permissible purpose for executive session is to “conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 
2”).  Approval of a collective bargaining agreement may take place in executive session pursuant 
to Purpose 2; no open session ratification is needed.  See OML 2015-52; OML 2013-84. 
 
Here, the Board entered executive session on March 2 to approve a Memorandum of 
Agreement.  Although the Town and the Police Union had reached agreement on terms, the 
Memorandum of Agreement still required approval by the Board.  The Board permissibly voted 
to approve the Memorandum of Agreement in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2 and did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, https://www mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
4 We advise the Board that the motion and vote to enter executive session should have been captured in the open 
session meeting minutes, as the vote to enter executive session takes place in open session.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
List of Documents Used 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “creat
 e and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L c. 30A, § 22(a) (emphasis added).  A document is “used” 
at a meeting when, at a minimum, it is physically present, verbally identified, and its contents are 
discussed.  See OML 2017-169.  Here, the Board concedes, and we find, that the Board initially 
approved meeting minutes that failed to list the Memorandum of Agreement with the Police 
Union that it used during the Board’s March 2 meeting, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  
In response to the complaint, the minutes were promptly updated. 
 
II. The Board F
 ailed to Respond to an Open Meeting Law Complaint. 
 
The second complaint alleges that the Board faile
 d to timely respond to the first 
complaint.  The Open Meeting Law requires that, unless an extension has been granted by the 
Attorney General, within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, a 
public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; 
and send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. 
c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  Thus, a public body must meet to review the complaint and 
formulate a response, or meet to delegate that authority, and respond to the complaint within 14 
business days.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); see also OML 2017-69; OML 2012-90.
  A public body 
may review a complaint during a meeting and then authorize a designated individual to prepare 
and send the response, or an individual may receive the complaint and draft a response for the 
public body to review at a meeting, but the public body may not remove itself entirely from the 
process.  See OML 2020-164.  In addition, the public body must send a copy of the complaint 
and its response to the Attorney General.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).   
 
Here, the Board’s executive assistant responded to the Complainant the day after he filed 
the first Open Meeting Law complaint with explanations and responses to each issue raised in 
the complaint.  However, that response did not fulfill the Board’s obligations under the Open 
Meeting Law, as the Board had not reviewed the first complaint during a meeting prior to that 
response.  Furthermore, the response was not sent to the Attorney General.  We acknowledge 
that on two occasions the Board or Town staff reached out to the Complainant to inquire whether 
a further response was required and the Complainant did not respond; however, upon receipt of a 
properly filed Open Meeting Law complaint that had not been withdrawn by the Complainant, 
the Board was obligated to respond in the manner required by the Open Meeting Law.  
Therefore, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to properly respond to the first 
Open Meeting Law complaint. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include a list of documents used in the March 2 executive session meeting minutes, 
although the minutes were corrected before the complaint was filed with this office.  In addition, 
===PAGE 5===
5 
the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to respond to an Open Meeting Law 
complaint.  We order immediate and future compliance with the Law’s requirements and caution 
that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  As the 
minutes have been revised to include the list of documents, we order no further remedial action. 
   
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
  
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Stephen Morgan (via email: ) 
 Ashland Select Board (via email: selectboard@ashlandmass.com) 
 Cindy Livingstone, Town Clerk (via email: clivingstone@ashlandmass.com) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
