===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
February 9, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 13 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Katherine Feodoroff 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite 1F 
Millis, MA 02054 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan on July 3, 2020, alleging that the 
Ashland Affordable Housing Trust (the “Trust”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Trust on May 22, and you responded on 
behalf of the Trust by letter dated July 20.1, 2 In his complaint, Mr. Morgan alleges that the 
Trust’s notice and minutes for its April 29 meeting were insufficiently detailed. We resolve this 
complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Trust 
violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged.  
 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting and 
include in that notice a “listings of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed 
at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). 
Although it is good practice for a notice to specify that a vote will be taken when a vote is indeed 
anticipated in advance, the Open Meeting Law does not require this. See OML 2019-36. It is 
reasonably foreseeable that a public body may take action and hold a vote following discussion 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 In a prior determination, we found that the Trust violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely respond to 
this complaint. See OML 2020-145. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
of a topic listed on a meeting notice; the Open Meeting Law does not require that the notice 
separately indicate the possibility of a vote. See OML 2015-66; OML 2012-75.3 
 We find that the Trust’s notice for its April 29 meeting was insufficiently detailed in 
several respects. For example, the item “Corner Spot - Cherry Street,” although it provides the 
location of the property to be discussed, does not provide any information about the anticipated 
nature of the discussion. See OML 2020-55. In addition, the item “CHAPA/MHP Meeting – 
Emergency Assistance” uses acronyms that may not be readily understandable to the public. The 
Attorney General discourages the use of acronyms on meeting notices where uncommon 
acronyms may be confusing to the public. See OML 2015-154; OML 2015-116. We find that the 
acronyms for the Citizens’ Housing and Planning Association and Massachusetts Housing 
Partnership were too obscure to reasonably inform the public of the Trust’s planned discussion. 
Finally, we find that the item “Correspondence with citizen” was insufficiently detailed because 
it does not advise the public of the anticipated issue to be discussed. Because these three items on 
the notice for the April 29 meeting were insufficiently detailed, we find that the Trust violated 
the Open Meeting Law.4 
 The complaint also alleges that the Trust approved minutes for its April 29 meeting 
which were insufficiently detailed. The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create 
and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the 
date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each 
subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the 
actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When 
reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial 
compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2017-104; OML 2013-64. By substantial 
compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a 
member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear 
understanding of what occurred. See OML 2019-145; OML 2012-106. Although a transcript of 
the discussions is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion 
presented, minutes must include a substantive summary of the discussion on each topic. See 
OML 2018-8; OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55.  
 In reviewing the Trust’s April 29 meeting minutes, we find that the summaries of most 
topics are sufficiently detailed. The Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes include 
more than a statement that a public body held a discussion about a specified topic; the Law 
requires that the minutes summarize the discussion that was held. See OML 2019-167; OML 
2018-8. The minutes of the April 29 meeting contain a summary of the discussion of topics such 
as 1) rental and mortgage assistance, 2) the Corner Spot contract, and 3) refinancing of an 
affordable home on John Hancock Drive. However, the minutes do not contain a summary of the 
discussion on “how to respond to town resident emails,” instead stating only that “[w]e discussed 
how to respond to town resident emails. We discussed draft letter to town resident. Letter drafted 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
4 The complainant alleges that the item “Correspondence with citizen” should have specified the name of the person 
who sent the correspondence. Although we find, for the reasons stated herein, that the meeting notice was 
insufficiently detailed regarding this topic, we decline to find here that the name of the person who sent the 
correspondence was necessary nor would have been sufficient in order for the notice to be adequately detailed.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
by Steve with additions/edits from Debra. We agreed that the letter should be emailed by 
Steve.”5 In its response, the Trust explains that this portion of the meeting included a broad 
discussion of the Trust’s policy for responding to resident emails. This section of the April 29 
minutes does not contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. We 
therefore find that this section of the April 29 minutes is insufficiently detailed, in violation of 
the Open Meeting Law.  
Finally, we must determine whether the Trust’s violations were, as the complainant 
urges, intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a 
public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 
29.02. An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate 
ignorance of the Law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates 
the Open Meeting Law. Id. We recently found, in response to a prior complaint that Mr. Morgan 
filed with the Trust, that the Trust violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently 
detailed meeting notice and approving insufficiently detailed meeting minutes. See OML 2020-
55. That determination was issued on April 29, after the notice for the meeting now at issue was 
posted. Therefore, even though the meeting notice now at issue was insufficiently detailed in 
much the same way, the Trust had not yet received the benefit of our guidance in OML 2020-55.  
We therefore decline to find the violation regarding the insufficiently detailed meeting notice to 
be intentional. In addition, the minutes of the April 29 meeting at issue in this complaint show 
significant improvement in their level of detail compared to the meeting minutes that we found 
deficient in OML 2020-55, and we therefore decline to find the violation regarding the 
sufficiency of the minutes to be intentional. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Trust violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently detailed notice for its April 29 meeting and by approving minutes for 
the same meeting that were insufficiently detailed. We order the Trust’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Trust that a subsequent determination 
by our Office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate 
the Open Meeting Law. We also order the Trust to amend the minutes of the April 29 meeting to 
include sufficient detail about the discussion surrounding how to respond to town resident 
correspondence within 60 days of receipt of this determination.  
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our Office or the 
Trust. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
 
 
5 On July 8, the Trust amended the April 29 meeting minutes by adding the name of town resident Julie Nardone to 
the section regarding residents’ emails. Although this detail is helpful, the minutes should still contain more 
substance of the discussion.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Stephen Morgan (via e-mail:  
 Ashland Affordable Housing Trust (via e-mail: 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
