===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
May 31, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 100 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Brian Riley, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110   
  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
This office received a complaint from Patricia Brown on January 10, 2022, alleging that 
the Sudbury Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 9, and you responded on behalf 
of the Board by letter dated December 1.1 In her complaint, Ms. Brown alleges 1) that the Board  
discussed a topic at an October 26 meeting which was not listed on the meeting notice, and 2) 
that the notice for the Board’s November 3 meeting was insufficiently specific.  
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed relevant portions 
of the video recordings of the Board’s October 26 and November 3 meetings. Finally, we 
reviewed the meeting notice of the Board’s October 26 and November 3 meetings. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Board permissibly discussed an unanticipated topic at an October 26 meeting.  
 The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to post notice no later than 48 hours in 
advance of any meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, and to include on the 
meeting notice “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A public body may discuss a truly unanticipated topic at a 
meeting, although the Attorney General strongly recommends that public bodies postpone 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
discussion and action on unanticipated topics that are controversial or may be of particular 
interest to the public if the topic can wait until a subsequent meeting. See OML 2020-172; OML 
2019-131; OML 2018-119.2 
 During the public comment portion of the Board’s October 26 meeting, a resident asked a 
question about the costs and scope of a town construction project, the Fairbank Community 
Center. The Town Manager and members of the Board responded to the question by providing 
their feedback regarding the Board’s approach to rising costs associated with the project. The 
Board asserts, and we find no evidence to the contrary, that the resident’s question and the 
discussion that followed were unanticipated by the Chair 48 hours in advance of the October 26 
meeting. Absent evidence to the contrary, we credit the public body's account of the events. See 
OML 2019-132; OML 2016-58. As the discussion was not anticipated by the Chair, we find that 
the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing the topic, though it was not listed 
on the meeting notice.  
2. The Board’s notice for a November 3 meeting was sufficiently specific.  
 The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, and include the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a “a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be 
sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand 
the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2022-76; OML 2015-35.  
 The Law does not require the chair of a public body to guess what will occur at a 
meeting. See OML 2022-2; OML 2018-119. Where a public body’s discussion naturally flows 
from its consideration of the posted agenda topic, the notice was sufficient to inform the public 
of the discussion that occurred. See OML 2018-14; OML 2014-44; OML 2014-38. Finally, the 
Law does not prohibit a public body from discussing topics in a different order than listed on the 
notice. See OML 2014-35. 
 Here, the notice for the Board’s November 3 meeting contained two topics related to the 
town-owned Sewataro Property, to which the Board was considering expanding public access, 
though at that time the property was used only as a children’s camp. Specifically, the two topics 
listed were, “3. Discussion on Sewataro Property resident survey. Subcommittee members Russo 
and Schineller to present[,]” and “4. Discussion on Sewataro Use Policy Document and 
discussion on other Sewataro goals.” During approximately an hour and forty minutes of 
discussion, the Board discussed the two topics in an inter-related way, starting with the feedback 
received on a proposed resident survey, and moving to what information the Board would need 
in order to decide whether to extend a property management contract with the Sewataro camp 
operator and examining the sections of a proposed Sewataro Use Policy Document, which would 
govern expanding public access to the property. Although the discussion was lengthy and the 
two items sometimes overlapped, we find that the Board’s discussion either directly pertained, or 
naturally flowed, from the two listed topics. We therefore find that the notice for the November 3 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
meeting was sufficiently specific to advise the public regarding the anticipated topics to be 
discussed at the Board’s November 3 meeting. Therefore, we find that the Board did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We 
now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination 
does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please 
feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Patricia Brown (via e-mail:  
 Sudbury Board of Selectmen c/o Town Manager Henry Hayes 
 (via e-mail:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
