===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 24, 2015 
OML 2015-176 
David Blauss, Chair 
Hanson Recreation Commission 
c/o Ronald San Angelo, Town Administrator 
542 Liberty Street 
Hanson, MA 02341 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Blauss: 
This office received a complaint from Nicole Campbell on June 17, alleging that the 
Hanson Recreation Commission (the Commission) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.:l The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on or about June 
15, and Vice Chair Maria McClellan responded directly to Ms. Campbell in a letter dated June 
27.2 We did not receive Ms. McClellan's letter until September 10, following our request for 
a copy from the Commission. In her complaint, Ms. Campbell alleges that the Commission 
convened in executive session on June 11 to discuss complaints against her, but did not 
include this anticipated topic in a meeting notice or afford her certain rights guaranteed by 
G.L. c.30A,§ 21(a)(1). 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to follow certain procedural requirements for convening in executive session on 
June 11, including the failure to afford Ms. Campbell certain rights under Purpose 1; by 
failing to list this anticipated executive session topic in the notice; and by failing to create 
minutes from this executive session. In reaching our determination, we reviewed the initial 
complaint, the Commission's response, and the complaint filed with our office, requesting 
' All dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 For the purpose of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
3 We remind the Commission that, while a public body may authorize an individual such as the Town 
Administrator or the chair to respond on the public body's behalf, the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney 
General's regulations require that the entire Board first review the Open Meeting Law complaint. See G.L. 
c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). The Commission acknowledged that it did not discuss this complaint prior 
to its response. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
further review. In addition, we reviewed the notice of and open session minutes from the 
Commission meeting held on June 11. Finally, we spoke with Chair David Blauss on 
September 30 and with Vice Chair Maria McClellan on October 20. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Hanson Recreation Department organized a town-
wide event on June 8 called "Hanson Day." This event brought together various businesses 
and organizations to celebrate the town. The next day, on June 9 at 12:20 AM, one of the 
participants sent an email to the Commission outlining issues that arose during the event and 
offered suggestions for improving future events. Three of the five members of the Board of 
Selectmen (the Board) and the Town Administrator were copied on the email. At 11:35 AM 
on that same day, the Board chair sent an email to the Town Administrator asking him to 
forward the email to the Commission to "answer the inquiries or complaints in writing within 
two weeks," pursuant to the Board's policy on complaints filed with the town. The Town 
Administrator forwarded this email to the Commission minutes later, at 11:52 AM. Because 
the Commission considered this email to be a complaint against Ms. Campbell, who is an 
employee of the Recreation Department, it chose to convene in executive session at its next 
meeting, held on June 11 at 7:30 PM, to discuss this email with her. The subject was not 
listed as a topic on the notice. 
The June 11 minutes do not identify the statutory purpose for the Commission's 
executive session, describing the executive session topic as, "Letter to Recreation 
Commission, Ron San Angelo and Board of Selectmen regarding Hanson Day 2015." The 
Commission did not provide the complainant with written notice of this executive session, nor 
did it take a roll call vote to convene in executive session. The complainant left the meeting 
soon after the executive session commenced. Accordingly, the Commission ended the session 
and reconvened in open session. The Commission did not create minutes of this executive 
session. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School 
Commission of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive 
session is convened. See G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Executive session topics must be 
described, both in the meeting notice and in the announcement during open session, in as 
much detail as possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive session 
was called. See District Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Waviand. 455 Mass. 561, 567 
("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary under the 
open meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public that the school 
Commission would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if 
the reason for doing so was proper or improper."); G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b), 21(b)(3); 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
First, because the Board's request to the Commission (via the Town Administrator) 
asking it to respond to the complaint was sent more than 48 hours before the meeting, the 
executive session should have been listed on the Commission's meeting notice. See G.L. c. 
3 OA, § 20(b) (the Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting 
"at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays," 
and that every notice must include "the date, time and place of such meeting and listings of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.") The Town 
Administrator sent the Commission the Board's directive at 11:52 AM on June 9. The 
meeting was held at 7:30 PM on June 11. Accordingly, the Commission should have either 
added this topic to the notice before 7:30 PM on June 9 or postponed its discussion until a 
properly posted future meeting. Because the anticipated topic was not added to the June 11 
notice, the Commission should not have discussed the topic at that meeting. 
Second, although the Commission did not identify, either on the notice or in the 
announcement prior to the executive session, under which statutory purpose it planned to 
convene, it intended to meet behind closed doors "[t]o discuss the reputation, character, 
physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or 
to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public 
officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 3 OA, § 21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). 
Purpose 1 affords certain rights to the individual who is the subject of the executive session 
discussion, including the right to be notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours 
prior to the proposed executive session.4 Id Here, although Ms. Campbell was present, the 
Commission did not provide her with 48 hours written notice of the meeting or advise her of 
her rights during that session. Therefore, we find that the Commission should not have 
convened in executive session on June 11. 
Third, in addition to not fulfilling the specific requirements for convening in executive 
session under Purpose 1, the Commission did not follow the general procedures for convening 
an executive session on June 11. A public body may enter executive, or closed, session 
provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of members of the body 
have voted to go into executive session, and that the vote of each member is recorded by roll 
call and entered into the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). Before entering the executive 
session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may 
be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called, 
and the chair must publicly announce whether the open session will reconvene at the 
conclusion of the executive session. Id. Here, the Commission did not sufficiently describe 
the purpose for the executive session prior to convening; it did not announce whether it would 
reconvene in open session; and it did not take its vote to convene in executive session by roll 
call. G.L. c. 30A, § 21. Accordingly, we find that the Commission violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to follow the requirements for convening in executive session. 
4 The individual must also be afforded the right to be present during deliberations that involve that individual, the 
right to speak on his or her own behalf, the right to have counsel present to advise but not participate, and the 
right to have an independent record of the meeting made at the individual's own expense. G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(1). 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Fourth, although not raised in the complaint, we find that the Commission violated the 
Open Meeting Law by failing to create minutes of its June 11 executive session. The Open 
Meeting Law requires a public body to "create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, 
including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or 
absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits 
used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the 
record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Because it did not do so here, we order the 
Commission to create and approve minutes of its June 11 executive session within 30 days of 
receipt of this decision. Further, as a result of the procedural violations described above, once 
created, the Commission may not rely upon the Open Meeting Law as the basis for 
withholding any portion of these executive session minutes. See G.L. c. 3 OA, § 22(1) 
(minutes of an executive session may be withheld from disclosure to the public as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of an executive session, provided that the 
executive session was held in compliance with the Open Meeting Law)', OML 2014-42; OML 
2014-30; OML 2014-17. The Commission may continue to withhold the minutes from the 
general public, in whole or in part, under any applicable exemptions to the Public Records 
Law or the attorney-client privilege. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). Finally, since Ms. Campbell had 
the right to create an independent record of this executive session, once they are created the 
Commission must provide Ms. Campbell with an un-redacted copy of the executive session 
minutes within 5 days of approval. See OML 2015-54. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to follow certain procedural requirements for convening in executive session 
on June 11, including the failure to afford Ms. Campbell certain rights under Purpose 1; by 
failing to list this anticipated executive session topic in the notice for that meeting; and by 
failing to create minutes from this executive session. Accordingly, we order the following 
relief: 
(1) immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law; we caution that future 
similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law; 
(2) create minutes from the June 11 executive session within 30 days of this letter and, 
once created, publicly release the minutes, as well as any documents used by the 
Commission during that executive session discussion, subject to any applicable 
exemptions to the Public Records Law or the attorney-client privilege; and 
(3) provide Ms. Campbell with an un-redacted copy of the executive session minutes 
within 5 days of their approval; and 
(4) review the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Training Videos # 4 (Executive 
Sessions) and #5 (Meeting Minutes and Records) and certify to our office within 30 
days of this letter, using the attached form, that it has complied with this order. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
4 
===PAGE 5===
the Commission, Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Nicole Campbell 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
5 
===PAGE 6===
Certification of Compliance with Order 
I hereby certify that I have read the Attorney General's determination 
(print name) 
number OML 2015-XX and, pursuant to the order therein, reviewed the Attorney General's 
Open Meeting Law Training Videos # 4 (Executive Sessions) and #5 (Meeting Minutes and 
Records) on . 
(date) 
Board Member Signature Date 
6 