===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
November 7, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 182 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Michael A. D’Ortenzio Jr. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
mdortenzio@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney D’Ortenzio: 
 
This office received a complaint from Alfonso and Maureen Longobardi on July 6, 2025, 
alleging that the Middlefield Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 9, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by email dated June 16.  The complaint alleges that (1) notice 
of the Board’s April 16 meeting was not sufficiently specific; (2) the Board did not allow public 
comment during the April 16 meeting; and (3) minutes of the April 16 meeting were not 
sufficiently detailed and failed to include a list of documents used at the meeting.
2  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
posted notice of the April 16 meeting that was not sufficiently specific, and approved minutes 
that were not sufficiently detailed and failed to include a list of documents.  We decline to review 
the allegation that the Board did not allow public comment.  In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, 
and the notice and minutes of the April 16 meeting.  We also communicated with you and with 
Maureen Longobardi via email.  
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The complaint also references Alfonso Longobardi’s removal from a meeting the Board held on March 19.  The 
allegation that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when Mr. Longobardi  was removed from the March 19 
meeting was the subject of a prior determination, OML 2025-138.   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On or about February 19, Maureen Longobardi requested 
that the agenda of the April 16 meeting include a discussion of a “possible misappropriation of 
funds inquiry.”  On April 11, the Board posted notice of the April 16 meeting, which included 
the topic “Highway Superintendent to discuss truck concerns.”  The meeting took place as 
scheduled.   
 
During the meeting, Highway Superintendent Skip Savery addressed the financing of the 
2012 International truck and the 2021 Western Star truck, including the source of funding used to 
purchase the trucks.  According to minutes of the April 16 meeting, Highway Superintendent 
Savery “also stated that the International truck is still in use despite drone pictures not 
identifying where it is/was.  The Superintendent also reported that his only concern is the snow 
removal budget for the Town of Middlefield, and not for area towns. He also stated he didn’t see 
Chapter 90 funds as his ‘wish list.’”   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. Notice of the April 16 meeting was not sufficiently specific. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the s
 ecrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s 
discussion.  See OML 2023-3; OML 2019-134; OML 2015- 35.3  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an 
informed decision whether to attend the meeting in order to observe the discussion regarding a 
topic of interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22.  It is not enough that a topic 
is accurate and meaningful to members of the public body and those who regularly follow the 
public body's business; topics should be listed with sufficient clarity to reasonably advise the 
broader public, including those unfamiliar with the regular matters before the body, of the 
matters to be discussed.  See OML 2023-79; OML 2023-67; OML 2013-55. 
 
Notice of the April 16 meeting listed as a topic “Highway Superintendent to discuss truck 
concer
ns.”  The notice did not describe the “concerns” or the trucks.  During the meeting, the 
Highway Superintendent reported on two town-owned trucks, including how their purchase was 
financed.  However, a reasonable member of the public could have understood “truck concerns” 
to relate to any number of topics, from personal use of town-owned trucks to the impact of 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
delivery traffic on local roads.  Because a member of the public could not make an informed 
decision whether to attend the meeting based on the topic listed on the notice, we find the notice 
to be insufficiently specific. 
 
To the extent that the complaint also alleges that inclusion of “old bu
 siness” and “new 
business” on the notice was not sufficiently specific, we find no violation.  When reviewing a 
meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a 
meeting notice standing alone.  See OML 2022-154; OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155.  Rather, 
we review what was actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently 
specific to make the public aware of the discussion topics.  See OML 2022-154; OML 2020-137; 
OML 2019-64.  The complainants do not point to any discussion at the meeting that was had 
under the topics “old business” or “new business.”  Inclusion of that language in the notice, in 
isolation, does not run afoul of the Open Meeting Law.  The Board has committed to follow 
recommended best practice and only use “Old Business” as a heading on future meeting notices, 
with specific topics listed below.  See OML 2015-74. 
 
II. Minutes of the April 16 meeting were not sufficiently detailed. 
 
Public bodies must “create and maintain accurate minute
 s of all meetings, including 
executive sessions.”  G.L. c. 30A § 22(a).  The minutes must set forth “the date, time and place 
[of the meeting], the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a 
list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions 
taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  Id.  When reviewing meeting minutes 
for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the 
accuracy requirement.  See OML 2024-189; OML 2018-151.  Substantial compliance means that 
the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did 
not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. 
A transcript is not required and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion 
presented.  See OML 2021-190; OML 2021-137.  
 
The minutes of the April 16 meeting, as originally approved, did not i
 nclude a summary 
of the Highway Superintendent’s comments about the financing of the trucks.  Moreover, 
references in the minutes to a drone failing to identify the location of the International truck, and 
to Chapter 90 funds not being on the Superintendent’s “wish list” do not contain enough detail so 
that a member of the public could gain a clear understanding of the discussion that occurred.  
The minutes, therefore, were insufficiently detailed.  Additionally, the minutes did not include a 
list of documents used during the meeting, as required by the Open Meeting Law.  See G.L. c. 
30A, §22(a).  Upon receipt of the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board approved revised 
minutes to include a more complete summary of Superintendent Savery’s comments about the 
truck financing and a list of documents used during the meeting.  We commend the Board for 
taking remedial action in response to the Open Meeting Law complaint.  However, the revised 
minutes still do not sufficiently summarize the Highway Superintendent’s comments about a 
drone failing to locate a truck, and about Chapter 90 funding, and should be further amended to 
include the requisite detail, to the extent that further detail was provided during the meeting. 
 
  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
III. We decline to review the allegation that the Board did not allow public comment. 
 
At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement that meetings of public bodies be 
open and a
ccessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except when meeting in executive 
session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”).  Generally, access to a 
meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present as well as to see and hear what is 
being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2020-100; OML 2018-75; OML 
2016-54.  The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow public participation 
during its meetings but rather provides that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body 
without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.”  G.L. 
c. 30A § 20(f).  The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law.  Because the allegation that the Board did not allow public comment, even if true, 
would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law in any event, we decline to review this 
allegation.
4  Similarly, to the extent that the complainants allege that the Board should have 
included their requested agenda item “possible misappropriation of funds inquiry,” nothing 
within the Open Meeting Law requires a public body to discuss a topic proposed by a member of 
the public, and we decline to review such an allegation. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
cre
ating insufficient minutes of its April 16 meeting. We order the Board’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law.    Furthermore, we order the Board, within thirty days 
of receipt of this letter, to amend the minutes of the April 16 meeting to include further detail 
regarding the “drone pictures not identifying where it is/was” and the Superintendent’s comment 
that he “didn’t see Chapter 90 funds as his ‘wish list,’” to the extent that further detail was 
provided at the meeting, and to certify to our office that it has done so. 
 
We now
 consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
 
Sincerely, 
        
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
4 Although the Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to allow public comment during meetings, we 
encourage them to allow for as much public participation as time and circumstances permit.  See OML 2025-148.   

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
 
 
cc:  Ann Marie Visconti, Chair, Middlefield Select Board (via email: 
middlefield.amv@gmail.com) 
 Suzanne Lemieux, Middlefield Town Clerk (via email: middlefield.clerk@gmail.com) 
 Alfonso and Maureen Longobardi (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
