===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 13, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 42 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Thomas A. Mullen, Esq. 
Law Offices of Thomas A. Mullen LLC 
 
tmullen@thomasamullenpc.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Mullen: 
 
This office received two complaints from Scot McCauley on November 5, 2025, alleging 
that the Wakefield Town Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.
1  The complaints were originally filed with the Council on September 7 and September 
16 and you responded to both complaints on its behalf by letter dated October 3.2  In his 
complaints, Mr. McCauley alleges that the notice of a meeting the Council held on September 8 
was insufficiently specific. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged in the complaints.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaints, the Council’s response, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We also 
reviewed the notice and minutes of the meeting of September 8. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, “[e]xcept in an 
 
1 Hereinafter, all dates refer to 2025, unless otherwise specified. 
2 The allegations of the September 7 complaint were largely subsumed by the September 16 complaint.  
Nonetheless, we remind the Council that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a 
complaint, the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; 
send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General 
a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
emergency ... a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice 
must be “printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time and 
place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting.”  Id. 
 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s 
discussion.  See OML 2024-109; OML 2023-3; OML 2019-134.
3  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an 
informed decision whether to attend the meeting to observe the discussion regarding a topic of 
interest.  See OML 2023-199; OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95.   
 
Notice of the Council’s September 8 meeting included the following topics, among 
others: 
 
Item 6 | Discussions 
. . .  
B.  Town Meeting Warrant Articles: Review Process 
. . .  
C.  Town Council Policy Review: Public Participation 
 
Item 7 | Voting Matters 
. . .  
B.   200 Quannapowitt Parkway: Grading Request 
. . .  
D.  Water Street: Execution of confirmatory deed for Parcel 17-014-00C to RD&D, LLC 
and acceptance of deed from RD&D, LLC of deed for Parcel 17-015000G 
 
As explained below, the complainant alleges that the notice of the September 8 meeting 
was insufficiently specific as to these four topics. 
 
The Council’s September 8 meeting took place as scheduled.  When the Council reached 
discussion topic 6B, “Town Meeting Warrant Articles: Review Process,” the discussion turned to 
warrant articles submitted by citizens and whether to amend the Town Charter to limit debate of 
articles during Town Meeting.  The complainant alleges that as to this topic, the notice should 
have explicitly referenced a proposal to amend the Town Charter to place greater restriction on 
the proposal of warrant articles.  We disagree.  Although the detail proposed by the complainant 
might have been beneficial, the topic as drafted was sufficiently specific.  From the notice, a 
member of the public reasonably could understand the anticipated nature of the Council’s 
discussion, to wit, a review of the process that is followed to consider warrant articles.     
 
Similarly, we find that the discussion topic 6C, “Town Council Policy Review: Public 
Participation” was sufficiently specific.  At the September 8 meeting, the Council discussed 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
policy regarding public comment at the meetings of public bodies.  A member of the public 
reasonably could understand from topic 6C in the notice that the Council might discuss a review 
of the policy concerning public participation, a phrase often used to denote public comment. 
 
Upon reaching the topic 7B, “200 Quannapowitt Parkway: Grading Request,” the 
Council discussed a request by developer 200 Quannapowitt Owner, LLC, to grade the property 
at 200 Quannapowitt Parkway, where a mixed-use development was under construction.  The 
developer sought to grade its property onto adjacent town-owned property.  The complainant 
alleges that this topic is not sufficient because it fails to reference the town-owned property onto 
which the grading would continue.  Although a close question, we find the notice to be 
sufficiently specific as to this topic.  Upon reading the notice topic, a member of the public 
reasonably could anticipate that grading on a property under development might impact adjacent 
properties.   
 
Finally, the complaint alleges that topic 7D, concerning property on Water Street, was 
insufficiently specific because the parcel number included in the topic does not exist.  We have 
found notice lacking when it failed altogether to identify a piece of property or a project to be 
discussed.  See OML 2025-135; OML 2024-67; OML 2023-128.  However, we also have 
explained that when reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient 
on its face, we do not review the notice standing alone.  See OML 2023-169; OML 2015-109; 
OML 2014-155.  Rather, we review what was actually discussed at the meeting to determine if 
the notice was sufficiently specific to make the public aware of the discussion topics.  Where a 
public body does not actually engage in any deliberation on a particular topic, it cannot violate 
the Open Meeting Law with respect to the sufficiency of the meeting notice.  See OML 2026-15; 
OML 2023-29; OML 2016-76.  The Council did not discuss topic 7D during the September 8 
meeting.  Discussion of the topic was postponed to a future meeting when the complainant 
brought the insufficient property description to the Council’s attention prior to the meeting.  
Because topic 7D was not discussed at the September 8 meeting, we find no violation as to this 
allegation. 
 
To the extent that the complaint filed with the Council on September 7 alleges that notice 
of a meeting the Council held on July 14 was not sufficiently specific, we decline to review that 
allegation.  Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the 
public body within 30 days of the alleged violation.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b).  If the alleged 
violation could not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must 
be filed within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered.  940 CMR 
29.05(3).  When an alleged violation, including discussion of an insufficiently specific notice 
topic, occurs during an open meeting, it is reasonably discoverable at the time it occurs.  See 
OML Declination 8-30-24 (New Marlborough Select Board); OML Declination 4-2-24 
(Southwick Planning Board).  The allegation concerning the July 14 meeting, raised in the 
September 7 complaint, was untimely. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the ways alleged.   
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Scot McCauley (via email: ) 
Wakefield Town Clerk (via email: bsheeran@wakefield.ma.us) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
