===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www. mass. gov/ago 
September 1, 2015 
OML 2015-127 
Ralph V. Vitacco, Chair 
Sandwich Board of Selectmen 
130 Main Street 
Sandwich, MA 02563 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Dear Chair Vitacco: 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty, dated May 11, alleging that the 
Sandwich Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 27, and the Board responded 
by letter dated May 5. In his complaint, Mr. Beaty alleges that, on two occasions, the Board 
posted meeting notices that were not sufficiently specific. 
Following our review, we find that the Board's notices generally complied with the Open 
Meeting Law's requirements, however the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
list the name of the person with whom it would be negotiating in executive session. The Board 
acknowledged this violation in response to the complaint, and has committed to including such 
information in future meeting notices. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint; the Board's response; and the request for further review filed with our office. We 
also reviewed the meeting notices for two Board meetings, held on April 9 and 16. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body that meets at 
regular intervals to discuss and act on matters of relevance to the Town of Sandwich (the 
"Town"). The Board held a meeting on April 9. The notice for this meeting contains a section 
titled "Old Business." Under this heading, the notice lists, "FY '16 Budget," "May 4, 2015 
Annual Town Meeting-Draft Warrant," and "Other." The notice also includes the heading, 
"New Business." Under this heading, the notice lists "Sandwich Hollows Food & Beverage 
Management Contract RFP" and "Other." The notice also includes an anticipated executive 
session, described simply as "Contract Negotiations." 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
ft ^5 SEUJ 
===PAGE 2===
The Board also met on April 16. The notice for this meeting contains a section titled, 
"Staff Meeting- Large-Scale Capital Planning Efforts and Discussion." Under this heading, the 
notice lists "Public Safety" and "Other Priorities." The notice also includes an anticipated 
executive session, described simply as "Contract Negotiations." 
DISCUSSION 
Except in an emergency, a public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 
hours prior to the meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). The notice must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the 
date, time and place of the meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed. Id. The listing of topics "shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise 
the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2013-122; 
OML 2011-15.2 
All meetings of a public body must be conducted in an open session, with some 
exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session 
for any of ten enumerated purposes, provided that the chair of the public body first announces in 
open session the purpose for the executive session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 3 OA, §§ 
21(a), 21(b)(3). One permissible reason to convene in executive session is, "[t]o conduct 
strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) 
("Purpose 2"). Public bodies must identify in the notice for a meeting the specific executive 
session pmpose they intend to invoke to justify an executive session, and must provide as much 
detail as possible to inform the public of the nature of the executive session discussion without 
compromising the confidentiality of the executive session. See OML 2015-63; OML 2011-9. 
Thus, with respect to Purpose 2, we have said that unless disclosure will defeat the purpose for 
the executive session, public bodies should state in their notice the name of the specific 
personnel with whom they will be negotiating. See OML 2014-145; OML 2013-97. 
Here, we find that the Board's use of the phrases "Old Business" and "New Business" in 
the notices for its April 9 and April 16 meetings did not violate the Open Meeting Law. While 
the use of such headings alone may be insufficient to give the public a true idea of what will be 
discussed, see OML 2013-168, here the Board used the phrases as headings under which more 
specific descriptions were listed. This practice does not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
Furthermore, the Committee's use of "Other" did not violate the law. The Board's response 
states that the use of the topic "Other" is intended as a placeholder for topics not reasonably 
anticipated by the chair. Public bodies may include a topic in their notices for the discussion of 
such matters. See OML 2015-115. While a public body may include this type of item on a 
meeting agenda, as a best practice we recommend that, when including such a topic, public 
bodies indicate explicitly that the time is being reserved for topics not anticipated by the chair. 
See OML 2013-13. Here, though, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
by using "Old Business;" "New Business;" or "Other" on its meeting notices. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The complaint also alleges that the Board violated the law by failing to identify the party 
with whom it would be negotiating during its executive sessions on April 9 and 16. In the 
Board's response, it states that both executive sessions were used to conduct contract 
negotiations with the Town Manager. The response also acknowledges that the agendas for both 
meetings should have listed, "Contract Negotiations- Town Manager." Because the Board has 
not argued that disclosing this information on the meeting notice would have compromised its 
negotiating position, we agree with the Board that it should have been included, and find that its 
failure to do so violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2015-63. We note with approval that 
the Board has committed to including more detail about anticipated executive sessions in the 
future. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar 
future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Because the Board 
failed to follow proper procedure in convening its April 9 and April 16 executive sessions, the 
Board may not rely upon the Open Meeting Law as the basis for continuing to withhold the 
minutes of those executive session. However, the attorney-client privilege or one or more 
exemptions under the Public Records Law may allow the Board to withhold the minutes, or any 
portion thereof, from disclosure. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f); OML 2015-10. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ronald Beaty 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 