===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 21, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 143 
 
 
VIA EMAIL  
 
Verne Leach, Chair 
Peru Select Board 
selectman@townofperuma.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Leach: 
 
This office received a complaint from Kimberly Wetherell on February 6, 2023, alleging 
that the Peru Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on December 21, 2022, and the Board 
responded to the complaint by letter dated January 3, 2023.  The complaint alleges that the Board 
approved insufficiently detailed and inaccurate minutes of its December 7 meeting. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, and the request for further review of the complaint.   In addition, we reviewed 
the minutes of the Board’s December 7 meeting and an audio recording of the Board’s December 
7 meeting provided by the complainant. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  When reviewing minutes for 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy 
requirement.  See OML 2013-64.
2  By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should 
contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
 
1 Except where indicated, all dates in this letter refer to 2022. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found on the Attorney General’s website at https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 2===
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See OML 
2012-106.  A transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or 
opinion presented.  See OML 2017-104; OML 2016-40. 
 
   The Board discussed two topics during its December 7 meeting: the appointment of one 
individual to the Board of Assessors and the approval of a contract with another individual to 
provide accounting services.  The complainant as well as another member of the public asked 
many questions and provided comments on both topics and engaged in extended back-and-forth 
with Board members regarding both topics.  The meeting lasted less than 50 minutes in total, and 
the minutes consist of nearly four single-spaced pages of summary of the discussion on the two 
topics.  The complaint asserts that the minutes “do not reflect or describe what actually was said 
by all parties” and asserts that the minutes are “sugar coated” in favor of the Board members and 
to make members of the public who spoke “appear problematic.”   
 
 After reviewing the complete audio recording of the December 7 meeting and comparing 
it t
o the approved meeting minutes, we find that the minutes of the Board December 7 meeting 
substantially comply with the Open Meeting Law’s accuracy requirement.  The Open Meeting 
Law does not require that meeting minutes be a transcript of the discussions held—although we 
note that in many instances the minutes do capture comments from Board members and members 
of the public nearly verbatim—nor does the Law require that minutes include every remark or 
opinion presented.  In prior determinations, we have not required the level of detail and precision 
that the complainant seeks.  See, e.g., OML 2019-136 (finding that minutes substantially 
complied with the Law’s accuracy requirement when member of the public spoke during a public 
comment period and the minutes captured some of the complainant’s comments but, according to 
the complainant, failed to capture at least ten points the complainant included in her remarks); 
OML 2016-40.  Although the minutes do not include every remark made by members of the 
public as well as Board members, they contain an adequate summary of the comments.  See 
OML 2016-40.   
 
We understand the complainant is concerned, in part, with the tone of the minutes in 
addit
ion to their content.  We note isolated instances where the minutes appear to editorialize the 
tone of the meeting without summarizing specific discussions, such as “Kimberly Wetherell 
continued to interrupt Selectmen Cullett by making several accusations.”  In the future we 
recommend that the Board endeavor to limit the content of its meeting minutes to statements 
summarizing discussions that took place.  Nonetheless, overall we find the minutes of the 
Board’s December 7 minutes to be accurate and quite detailed, and we find that the Board did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2015-199 (“The Open Meeting Law does not 
mandate that public bodies adopt a particular tone when conducting business.”).   
 
  
===PAGE 3===
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if
you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Carie benedon
Carrie Benedon
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Kimberly Wetherell (via e-mail:
Terry Walker, Town Administrator (via e-mail: townadmin@townofperuma.com)
Peru Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@townofperuma.com)
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.