===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 21, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 133 
 
 
Michele E. Randazzo, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By email only: mrandazzo@k-plaw.com  
        
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Randazzo: 
 
This office received a complaint from Elodia Thomas on March 20, 2023, alleging that 
the Watertown Housing Authority Board of Commissioners (the “Board”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on 
February 23, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated March 
6.  The complaint alleges that the Board failed to properly post notice of a meeting held on 
February 1. 
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in acc
 ordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complaint 
filed with our office requesting further review.  In addition, we communicated with you on 
August 14.  We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged.   
 
Here, t
he complaint alleges that the Board did not properly post notice of a meeting held 
on February 1.2  However, the Board did not meet on that day.  Rather, the Board met on 
February 21.  When a public body does not actually hold a meeting, it cannot violate the Open 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2023. 
2 We note that the only violation date listed on the complaint form, of meetings for which notice was not properly 
posted, was February 1.  As such, we limit our review to February 1 because that was the date included within the 
original complaint to the Authority and thus the allegation that the Authority had an opportunity to respond to.  See  
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3).  Complaints must allege violations with a degree of specificity, as our 
office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations.  See  OML 2013-180; OML 
2012-106.   
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Meeting Law with regard to the sufficiency and posting of its meeting notice.  See OML 2022-
102.  Because the Board did not meet on February 1, we find that the Board did not fail to 
properly post notice of this meeting, and therefore did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 
Nonetheless, we take seriously the allegations raised by the complaint, and take this 
opportuni
ty to explain the requirements for posting notice of meetings of a housing authority’s 
board of commissioners.  The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a 
public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be printed in a 
legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as 
well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Id.  The list of 
topics shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
For local public bodies, notice shall be filed with the municipal clerk and posted in a 
manne
r conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on the municipal building in which 
the clerk’s office is located.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c).  The governing board of a local housing 
authority “shall be deemed a local public body.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  Alternatively, a 
municipality may designate a website as its official notice posting location for all public bodies 
within the municipality.  940 CMR 29.03(2)(b).  The City of Watertown has adopted its website, 
https://www.watertown-ma.gov/calendar, as the official method of posting notice.   
 
Her
e, notices of Board meetings were not posted to the calendar page on the municipal 
website.  Rather, it appears that the Board posted notices to its own website at 
https://watertownha.org/board-meeting-information/.
3   
 
We acknowledge that state regulations require local housing authorities to create and 
ma
intain “a website or web page” so that individuals “have a reasonably convenient means to 
communicate with the [local housing authority] and to take steps necessary to access the [local 
housing authority’s] programs and opportunities.”  See 760 CMR 4.02.  Information to be posted 
by the local housing authority shall include: “office hours, the names, addresses, phone numbers, 
email addresses or other means of contact for the [local housing authority’s] Executive Director 
and Assistant Director (if any), all [local housing authority] board members, and senior staff; 
information for tenants on how to report maintenance problems; and copies of its Annual Plan.”  
Id.  However, as a local public body, the Board must also comply with the Open Meeting Law, 
which requires that notices be “posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all 
hours in or on the municipal building in which the clerk’s office is located,” or alternatively, on 
the municipal website if the municipality has adopted the municipal website as the official 
method of posting notice.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c); 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b).  The posting location for 
the City of Watertown is the municipal website.  Although public bodies are welcome to post 
notice of their meetings in multiple locations if they choose, a local public body has one official 
notice posting location for purposes of complying with the Open Meeting Law.  See 940 CMR 
 
3 The notices posted to the Board’s website were for meetings held between March and July 2023.  Specifically, the 
notices posted were for meetings held on March 13, April 10, May 8, June 12, and July 11.  Although a public body 
is required to post notice 48 hours prior to a meeting, the Open Meeting Law does not require that the notice remain 
posted to the website after the meeting has occurred.  See OML 2023-63 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
29.03(2)(b)(3) & (c); OML 2021-94; OML 2020-20.4  Because the Board is considered a local 
public body and the City of Watertown has adopted its website as the official posting location for 
all public bodies within the municipality, the Board must post notice of its meetings to 
https://www.watertown-ma.gov/calendar.  The City website may include a link to the specific 
page on the Board’s website where it also posts its meetings notices.   
 
With respect to the concerns raised in the complaint that the Board does not post meeting 
minutes, the Open Meeting Law does not require that public bodies post their minutes to a 
website or that minutes be submitted to the Town Clerk, but rather that meeting minutes be made 
available within 10 days of a request.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); OML 2013-103.
5  We also take 
this opportunity to remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to create 
and approve meeting minutes, whether for open or executive session, in a timely manner, which 
means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless 
the public body can show good cause for further delay.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); 940 CMR 29.11; 
see OML 2018-48.  Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at 
the next meeting.  See OML 2018-67; OML 2017-133.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Elodia Thomas – By email only:  
Watertown Housing Authority Board of Commissioners c/o Michael Lara, Executive 
Director – By email only: MLara@watertownha.org  
 Watertown Town Clerk – By email only: jmurphy@watertown-ma.gov 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: www mass.gov/the -open-
meeting-law. 
5 The Supervisor of Records within the Office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth has issued regulations under 
the Public Records Law requiring that a municipal public records access officer, “to the extent feasible, post 
commonly available public record documents on a website maintained by the municipality.”  See  950 CMR 
32.04(5)(g).   
