===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
January 23, 2020
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
OML 2020 - 5
John Brandt
Chairman, Fall River Conservation Commission 
One Government Center 
Room 535
Fall River, MA 02722
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Mr. Brandt:
On August 231 this office received two complaints filed by Collin Dias, alleging that the 
Fall River Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) and one of its members, Gualter 
Amarelo, violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were 
originally filed with the Commission on July 18 and 19. On July 25, you sent two emails to Mr. 
Dias in response to his complaints.
We resolve these complaints by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 
29.07(2)(a). In his complaints, Mr. Dias alleges 1) that Commission member Gualter Amarelo 
did not complete the Certificate of Receipt of Open Meeting Law Materials as required by 
Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 30A, Section 20(h), and 2) that the Commission did not 
take attendance at its July 8 meeting.
After review of the appointment document for Mr. Amarelo and his signed Certificate of 
Receipt of Open Meeting Law Materials, we find that Mr. Amarelo did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged. Mr. Amarelo was appointed to the Commission effective May 29 and 
took his oath of office on June 11. Mr. Amarelo’s Certificate of Receipt of Open Meeting Law 
Materials reflects that he signed the certification on June 1, well within two weeks of being 
appointed to the Commission.
With regard to Mr. Dias’ second allegation that the Commission failed to take attendance 
at its July 8 meeting, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law. The 
Law does not require that a public body formally take attendance at its meetings. The Law 
requires that a public body’s meeting minutes include a list of the members present or absent at a
1 All dates are in 2019, unless otherwise stated.

===PAGE 2===
meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). After review of the Commission’s July 8 meeting minutes, we 
find that the minutes include a list of the members present at that meeting. Therefore, we find 
that neither the Commission nor Mr. Amarelo violated the Open Meeting Law in the ways 
alleged.
Although we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law, we do 
note that the Commission did not respond to either complaint as required by the Open Meeting 
Law. After receiving an Open Meeting Law complaint, a public body must, within 14 business 
days, meet to review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send a 
response to the complainant. See with 940 CMR 29.05(5). The public body must also provide the 
Attorney General with a copy of the complaint, the response, and a description of any remedial 
action taken. Id.; G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). We remind the Commission of its obligation to comply 
with all provisions of the Open Meeting Law, including the obligation to timely respond to Open 
Meeting Law complaints.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions.
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Collin Dias
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
2
