===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 2, 2022 
       
       OML 2022 – 103 
 
VIA E-MAIL 
 
Howard L. Greenspan, Esq. 
200 Broadway, Suite 304 
Lynnfield, MA 01940 
 
 
 RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Greenspan: 
 
This office received a complaint from Scott Lake on October 22, 2021, alleging that the 
Dartmouth Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A,  §§ 18-25.1  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 13, and you responded to the 
complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated October 1.  The complaint alleges that the 
Board failed to follow proper procedures for convening in executive session on August 23, 
during which it discussed a disciplinary hearing involving Mr. Lake. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to first convene in open session on August 23 prior to moving into executive session.  We 
decline to review other allegations raised in the complaint for the reasons discussed below.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaints, the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, as well as additional 
correspondence from the complainant received on November 15.  We also reviewed the notice 
for the Board’s August 23 meeting.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On August 19, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be 
held on August 23 at 6:00 P.M.  The notice included the following information: 
 
6:30 p.m.   Open Meeting via Remote Access  
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021, unless otherwise noted. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
YouTube Link- [ ]  
6:00 p.m. Executive Session pursuant to M.G.L. Ch. 30A, Sec. 21 (See 
attached agenda)  
6:30 p.m. Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag  
Moment of Silence  
Signing of the Warrant 
 
Beneath, the meeting notice included a listing of open session topics.  Posted with the meeting 
notice was a memorandum from the Town Administrator to the Select Board Members, which 
stated as follows: 
 
SUBJECT: Executive Session pursuant to M.G.L. Ch. 30A, Sec. 21, August 
23, 2021, @ 6:00 PM  
 
The Board will discuss the following: 
• Hearing - Sergeant Scott Lake - to discuss the discipline or 
dismissal, complaints or charges brought against a public 
officer, employee, staff member or individual pursuant to 
Chapter 30A, Section 2l(a)(1). 
 
The August 23 meeting was held as planned.  The Board convened its meeting in 
executive session at 6:00 P.M., which Mr. Lake attended with his attorney.  During the executive 
session, the Board voted to appoint a hearing officer to preside over disciplinary proceedings 
against Mr. Lake.  After the executive session, the Board convened its meeting in open session at 
6:30 P.M., and discussed the topics as listed on the meeting agenda.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
As a preliminary matter, we decline to review allegations in the complaint that, if true, 
would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML Declination 1-25-16 
(Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners).2  The Division of Open Government’s 
statutory authority concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint alleges that the Board committed various violations of the Civil Service Law, 
General Laws Chapter 31, sections 41 and 41A, during meetings held on October 5, 2020, and 
August 23, 2021, including that the Board did not provide Mr. Lake with written notice of the 
contemplated disciplinary action and that the Board did not appoint a disinterested hearing 
officer.  Because these allegations, if true, would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting 
Law, we decline to review them. 
 
Next, we address the allegation that the Board failed to convene in open session on 
August 23 prior to enter executive session.  The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate 
much of the secrecy surrounding deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  
Ghiglione v. School Board of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The law requires that all 
meetings of a public body be conducted in an open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, 
 
2 All previous determinations and declinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General's 
website: https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
§§ 20(a), 21(a).  A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten 
purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open 
session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the 
vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has 
publicly announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive 
session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.3   
 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to follow the proper procedures prior to 
entering executive session on August 23 when it did not first convene its meeting in open 
session.  Prior to entering executive session, a public body must convene in open session, the 
chair must state the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called, and a majority of 
the members of the public body must vote to enter into executive session.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
21(b) (1)-(3).  The public has a right to witness these procedural steps in order to observe the 
vote and learn the purpose for the executive session.  See OML 2013-195.  Relatedly, we note 
that when the first or only topic for a meeting is an executive session, the notice must make clear 
that the meeting will begin with a brief open session that the public may attend.  See OML 2019-
160; OML 2013-9; OML 2012-68.  The Board acknowledges that it did not convene its meeting 
in open session and perform these procedural steps in an open session that the public could 
access, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to convene in an open session that the public could attend prior to entering executive 
session on August 23.  We order immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, 
and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
law.  We decline to invalidate the action taken during the August 23 executive session, where the 
complainant, who was the subject of the executive session discussion, received advance 
notification of the purpose of the executive session and attended the executive session with his 
attorney. 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law declinations and determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: David O. Scott, Esq. (via email:  
Dartmouth Select Board (via email to Shawn MacInnes, Town Administrator: 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
