===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
October  12, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 186 
 
 
Gary Howayeck, Esq. 
Office of the Corporation Counsel 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
 
By email only: ghowayeck@fallriverma.org 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Howayeck: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on June 29, 2022, alleging that the 
Fall River City Council Committee on Finance (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on June 6, 
and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated June 22.  The 
complaint alleges that the Committee failed to timely approve the minutes of a meeting held on 
April 26.   
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, and the 
complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We also corresponded with counsel 
for the Committee and reviewed correspondence from the city clerk regarding the meeting 
minutes.  We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged.   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The meeting minutes must be reviewed 
and approved in a timely manner.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  “Timely manner” means “within the 
next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2022. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
show good cause for further delay.”  See 940 CMR 29.11; OML 2018-48.2  Whenever possible, 
we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting.  See OML 2018-67; 
OML 2017-133.  
 
The Committee approved the minutes of it’s April 26 meeting during a meeting held on 
June 6.  Following the Committee’s April 26 meeting, the Committee held meetings on May 10, 
May 24, May 31, and June 6.  Therefore, the later of the Committee’s next three meetings or 30 
days was May 31.  However, the Committee asserts that it had good cause for the very brief 
delay in approval until June 6.  We understand that a staff member who had attended the April 
26 meeting and was tasked with preparing the minutes had nearly completed the minutes prior to 
the May 31 meeting, but then was unexpectedly out of work with the Covid-19 virus and the 
minutes were not completed in time for approval on May 31.  Although another staff member 
subsequently completed the minutes for approval at a meeting six days later, that staff member 
had not been at the April 26 meeting and had to watch the meeting video to do so.   
 
In general, staffing shortages of the type that all governmental bodies with limited 
resources experience, or periodic staff vacancies, do not constitute good cause for failing to 
approve minutes in a timely manner, as it is the responsibility of the public body and its members 
to take steps to ensure that staff have adequate assistance to complete the minutes in a timely 
manner, including having members of the public body assist in the creation of minutes if 
necessary.  See OML 2021-177; OML 2018-105; OML 2015-86.  Ultimately, the responsibility 
for complying with the Open Meeting Law’s requirement that meeting minutes be created and 
approved in a timely manner rests with public bodies and members of such bodies, not with 
individual public employees, such as administrative staff.  See OML 2018-105.  Here, however, 
where a specific employee was tasked with preparing the minutes and had nearly completed the 
minutes but then was unexpectedly and temporarily out of work due to illness before the minutes 
could be completed, we find good cause for the very short delay in approval of the minutes of the 
April 26 meeting and find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law.
3 
 
  
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
3 In its initial response to the complaint, the Committee asserted that the June 6 meeting when the minutes were 
approved was only its second meeting following the April 26 meeting.  This is not accurate.  The Committee, which 
is a committee of the whole of the City Council, also held meetings on May 10 and May 24, although those 
Committee meetings were posted jointly with and held during meetings of the City Council.  We remind the 
Committee that those meetings are considered meetings of the Committee for purposes of calculating the deadline 
for approval of meeting minutes. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins – By email only:  
Fall River City Council Committee on Finance – By email only: 
city_council@fallriverma.org 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
