===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
October 16, 2017 
OML 2017-159 
Ellen Grieco, Chair 
Wayland School Committee 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Grieco; 
This office received a complaint from George Harris on September 6 alleging that the 
Wayland School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 
18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on July 18; and you responded, 
on behalf of the Committee, on July 28. The complaint alleges that the Committee failed to 
timely respond to a request for executive session minutes. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to properly respond to a request for meeting minutes. We find the Committee's failure to 
respond to a request for minutes to be an intentional violation of the law, and we refer the matter 
to a hearing pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07(3). In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint, the Committee's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our 
office requesting further review. In addition, we reviewed correspondence between the parties 
concerning the complainant's request for minutes; and the open session minutes from the 
Committee meeting held on July 24. 
We find the facts as follows. On June 26, the complainant, in two separate emails to 
Chair Ellen Grieco,2 requested from the Committee "the executive session minutes of all 
deliberations of the Wayland School Committee during 2017 pertaining or relating to the 
selection of and contract negotiations with . . . the Superintendent of the Wayland Public 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
Schools" and "the minutes of the May 22, 2017 executive session topic 8(d) pertaining to non-
union personnel." 
The Committee did not respond to these requests. On July 18, the complainant filed an 
Open Meeting Law complaint regarding the Committee's failure to respond to his requests for 
executive session minutes. 
During its July 24 meeting, the Committee discussed the Open Meeting Law complaint 
and acknowledged that it had failed to make a timely response to the request for executive 
session minutes. The Committee then approved for public release executive session minutes 
from its meetings held on March 31, April 24, May 8, May 22, June 5, June 12, and June 19. 
On July 25, the Committee provided the complainant with copies of executive session 
minutes that were responsive to his request for minutes pertaining to the selection of, and 
contract negotiations with, the Wayland School Superintendent. On or about July 26, the 
Committee provided the complainant with a copy of the executive session minutes from its May 
22 meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting 
minutes must be reviewed and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). Executive 
session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public "as long as publication may 
defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer." G.L. c. 3 OA, § 22(f). When 
the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents or 
exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or an 
exemption to the public records law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, from 
disclosure. See id. Public bodies have an obligation to review the minutes of executive sessions 
at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of minutes is warranted, and to 
announce that determination at the next meeting following its review. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1); 
see OML 2013-56; OML 2015-94.3 
Upon request by any person to inspect or copy the minutes of an executive session or any 
portion thereof, the body must respond to the request within 10 days following receipt and 
release any such minutes where publication would not defeat the lawful purposes of the 
executive session; provided, however, that if the body has not performed a review, the public 
body must perform the review and release the non-exempt minutes, or any portion thereof, not 
later than the body's next meeting or 30 days, whichever first occurs. See G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(g) 
(2). 
The complainant alleges that the Committee failed to respond to his requests for minutes. 
The Board was obligated to respond to the complainant within 10 days of his June 26 requests. 
However, the Committee did not respond until July 25 and July 26, when it provided him with a 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
copy of the approved minutes. The Committee should have informed the complainant within 10 
days of his request that it was conducting a review of the executive session minutes. See OML 
2016-135; OML 2013-99. While we commend the Committee for taking remedial action in 
response to the complaint by promptly reviewing and approving minutes for release at its next 
meeting, we nevertheless find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
properly respond to a request for minutes. 
The Committee was advised twice last year by the Attorney General that it must respond 
to requests for executive session minutes within 10 days. See OML 2016-80; OML 2016-36. 
Accordingly, because the Committee had previously been advised that this conduct violated the 
Open Meeting Law, we find that this violation is intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; 940 CMR 
29.02; OML 2013-63. We refer this matter for a hearing pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07(3) and 
recommend that the Committee be assessed a fine of $500 pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c) 
("Upon the finding of a violation, the attorney general may issue an order to . . . impose a civil 
penalty upon the public body of not more than $1,000 for each intentional violation"). We 
recommend the lesser fine of $500, rather than a $1,000 fine, because the Committee 
acknowledged that it failed to properly respond to the request for minutes and took immediate 
corrective action by promptly reviewing and approving the minutes for release. We invite the 
Committee to contact this office to discuss the hearing process. 
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to respond to a 
request for executive session minutes within 10 days. We find that the Committee's failure to 
timely provide minutes was intentional. We therefore refer this matter for a hearing pursuant to 
940 CMR 29.07(3). We recommend the imposition of a civil penalty of $500 and an order of 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 23(c)(1), (3), 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
CONCLUSION 
(4). 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: George H. Harris, Esq. 
Mark Lanza, Esq. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 