===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 25,2018 
OML 2018-90 
Jason Talerman, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054 
RE: Open Meeting Law Comnlaint 
Dear Attorney Talerman: 
This office received a complaint from Jessica Kramer on February 6, 2018, alleging 
that the Kingston Capital Planning Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or 
about December 8, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, in a 
letter dated December 27.1 In her complaint, Ms, Kramer alleges that the Committee 
improperly deliberated following the adjournment of its November 9 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in 
the manner alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We reviewed the notice and meeting minutes of the Committee's November 9 
meeting. We also reviewed a summary account of the meeting and audio-recordings of the 
Committee's January 1 and January 16, 2018 meetings, which the complainant provided to us. 
Finally, we spoke individually by telephone with all of the Committee members in May: 
Chair Andrew Risio; Peter Boncek; Richard Arruda; Dana Atanian; and the complainant. 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a five-member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum. The Committee is responsible for approving capital 
improvements in Town. Historically, the Committee has not met year-round, but rather held 
meetings in the fall leading up to Town Meeting. In 2017, the November 9 meeting was the 
Committee's first meeting since April. Thus, the Committee planned to review the meeting 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise specified. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
minutes from April, review the budget books, discuss the upcoming calendar, and select a 
new chair. 
During the November 9 meeting, the Committee selected Andrew Risio as chair. 
Chair Risio then raised an issue about two articles on the warrant for Town Meeting, which 
was scheduled for November 14. Chair Risio expressed his concern that the Committee had 
not voted on the two articles. A member of the public, Mary McKinnon, stated that the topic 
was anticipated by the previous chair, but not listed on the notice, and therefore the 
Committee could not discuss it. Mr. Boncek then distributed copies of Article 8 of the Town 
bylaws to demonstrate that the Committee should have voted on the two articles ahead of 
Town Meeting. Ken Stevens, the Town Treasurer and a non-voting ex-officio Committee 
member, also pointed out that the topic was not listed on the notice and thus the Committee 
could not discuss it. Chair Risio later returned to the topic, asking whether a Committee 
meeting could be held ahead of Town Meeting, which was scheduled for the following week, 
to which Ms. Boncek replied that, due to a holiday, there was not enough time to post notice 
of a meeting. Chair Risio stated that the Committee could not take an official position on the 
two articles at Town Meeting, but the Committee should discuss at its next meeting how to 
ensure this issue does not occur next year. The Committee then adjourned the meeting. 
There is some discrepancy among Committee members about what happened next. 
The entire Committee remained in their seats, as did Ken Stevens. No one else was in the 
audience, including Ms. McKinnon who had already left. The complainant and Mr. Boncek 
contend that Ms. McKinnon had informed the Committee earlier during the meeting that it 
could meet as "private citizens" to discuss the warrant article issue. Chair Risio recalls that he 
may have initiated the discussion after the meeting had adjourned to ask his Committee 
members whether they had a right or obligation to bring up the issue as "private citizens" as it 
was clear the Committee as a whole could not formally do so. Either way, the Committee 
agrees that everyone stayed in the meeting room for approximately 20 minutes after the 
meeting had adjourned to discuss the Committee's jurisdiction, the Town bylaws and whether 
adherence to the bylaws should be raised at Town Meeting. During most of this time, it 
appears that the members engaged in a discussion on this topic with the members sitting 
closest to them, while at times they engaged in a discussion together as a Committee. For 
example, the complainant and Chair Risio chatted together, while Mr. Boncek discussed the 
issue with Mr. Arruda and Mr. Atanian. At times. Chair Risio and the complainant joined in 
the conversation of Mr. Boncek, Mr. Arruda and Mr. Atanian. Approximately 10 minutes 
into the discussion, Mr. Boncek closed the meeting room door due to noise coming from 
down the hall. The complainant turned to Mr. Arruda and asked whether this discussion 
violated the Open Meeting Law, to which he replied that he did not know but expressed his 
belief that they were meeting as private citizens. After a few more minutes, the Committee 
members concluded their discussion and left the room. 
In its response to this complaint, the Committee pledged to create meeting minutes 
from this post-adjournment discussion. Although Chair Risio presented a draft version to the 
Committee twice, on January 2, 2018 and again on January 16, 2018, the Committee did not 
approve them because of disagreement over whether approval was necessary. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School 
Commission of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive 
session is convened. See G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. 
c. 3OA, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include 
the distribution of other procedural meeting (sic) or the distribution of reports or documents 
that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. 
For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority of the members 
of the public body. Id. 
The complaint alleges that the Committee continued to deliberate following the 
adjournment of its November 9 meeting. The Committee concedes that all of its members 
stayed in the meeting room for approximately 20 minutes after adjournment. While the 
individual Committee members' accounts vary, we find that the Committee as a whole 
engaged in a discussion about two upcoming Town Meeting warrant articles; a topic that the 
Committee was concerned about discussing during the meeting because it had not been listed 
on the notice. The Committee's discussion focused on its concern that it had not been asked 
to weigh in on the two articles prior to Town Meeting, as required by the Town's bylaws. 
The Committee discussed whether individual members could or should raise the issue at 
Town Meeting and how to avoid this situation in the future. Even when the Committee 
members engaged in individual conversations with the members sitting closest to them, other 
members were in ear shot of those conversations and chimed in during certain points in the 
discussion. Accordingly, we find that at least a quorum of the Committee discussed the topic 
following the meeting's adjournment in violation of the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 18; OML 2017-91.2 
Most concerning, however, is that the Committee's post-adjournment discussion took 
place even after it had repeatedly stopped a discussion of the same topic during the meeting 
because the topic had not been listed on the meeting notice. The Open Meeting Law requires 
a public body to post notice of a meeting at least 48 hours in advance of a meeting that 
includes "the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). As the 
Committee was made aware several times during the meeting, a public body cannot discuss a 
topic that is not listed on the notice which is anticipated by the chair at least 48 hours before 
the meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. See OML 2017-117. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www. mass. go v/ago/op enmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Notwithstanding the Committee's improper actions, it did not restrict public access to 
the room, although no members of the public were present for the end of the meeting.3 See 
OML 2017-85. Additionally, the Commission took remedial action on its own initiative by 
disclosing the discussion and acknowledging a violation in its response to this complaint. 
Accordingly, we decline to find an intentional violation because the violation does not appear 
to be a deliberate attempt to hide the Committee's discussions from the public. See OML 
2017-40; OML 2016-169. The Open Meeting Law does not contain any provision requiring 
that a formal statement be made to begin or conclude a meeting. See OML 2018-37. 
However, where a public body takes steps to close a meeting, such as a vote to adjourn, the 
public body should not continue to deliberate after those steps are completed. See OML 
2016-140. We also take this opportunity to remind the Committee that a quorum may not 
meet as "private citizens" to discuss Committee business. See OML 2013-194. Although the 
Committee discussed whether to approve minutes of this post-adjournment discussion, it 
ultimately decided not to do so. We therefore order the Commission to revise its November 9 
meeting minutes to include this discussion. The minutes should make clear that the 
discussion was held after the Committee had adjourned the meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law by deliberating following the adjournment of its November 9 meeting. We order the 
Committee's immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution 
that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
Additionally, we order the Committee to revise its November 9 meeting minutes in 
accordance with the guidance above. Finally, we order the Committee to review the Attorney 
General's Open Meeting Law Training Video #1 (Introduction and Definitions)4 and certify in 
writing to this office, within thirty (30) days of the date of this letter, that its members have 
reviewed this determination and the video. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 We note that Ken Stevens, a non-voting ex-officio Committee member, remained in the room for this 
discussion. 
4 Available at https://www.mass.gov/service-details/open-meeting-law-trammg-videos. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
cc: Jessica Kramer 
Kingston Capital Planning Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
5 