===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 26, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 254 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Daryle Lamonica  
Chair, Georgetown Board of Selectmen 
DLamonica@georgetownma.gov  
 
Chris Candia 
Chair, Georgetown Conservation Commission  
CCandia@georgetownma.gov 
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chairs Lamonica and Candia: 
 
This office received a complaint from Michael Donahue on August 20, 2024,
1 alleging 
that the Georgetown Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) and the Georgetown Conservation 
Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaint was originally filed with the bodies on or about April 1. Neither body responded to the 
complaint until after our office reached out inquiring about a response.2 Thereafter, we received 
a response from the Commission on September 16 and from the Board on September 24. The 
complaint alleges that Board Chair Amy Smith3 and Commission Member Chris Candia violated 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 Public bodies are required to review and respond to Open Meeting Law complaints within 14 business days. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). In a determination issued on December 20, 2024, we found that the 
Commission’s repeated failures to respond to Open Meeting Law complaints despite prior reminders and warnings 
constituted intentional violations of the Open Meeting Law. OML 2024-253. In OML 2024-253 our office 
recommended the imposition of a civil penalty of $400. We likewise remind the Board of its obligation to timely 
review and respond to all properly filed Open Meeting Law complaints. 
3 Amy Smith no longer serves on the Board. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
the Open Meeting Law during the Board’s March 11 meeting when Ms. Candia raised, and the 
Board briefly discussed, a matter that had not been included on the meeting notice.4  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board and the Commission did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting 
Law complaint, the Board’s and the Committee’s responses, the request for further review, the 
notice for the March 11 meeting, and a video recording of the meeting.5 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
March 11. The notice did not include a topic related to the Commission. The Commission is a 
seven-member public body; therefore, four members constitute a quorum. In attendance at the 
Board’s March 11 meeting were Chris Candia and Ida Wye, both members of the Commission. 
Also present at the meeting in her capacity as a member of the Board was Rachel Bancroft who 
also serves on the Commission.  
 
Toward the end of the March 11 meeting, Ms. Candia requested and was granted 
permission to address the Board. Ms. Candia then discussed a 2018 report regarding allegations 
that had been made against the previous Conservation Agent. Ms. Candia noted that the 
Commission continues to be viewed in a poor light in town and explained that this is hurtful to 
members of the Commission. Ms. Candia also explained that she wanted more support for the 
Commission from other public bodies in town. After some back and forth regarding the above 
matters, a member of the Board expressed discomfort with continuing the discussion where the 
topic had not been included on the meeting notice. Ultimately, Ms. Candia agreed that in the 
future if she wanted to discuss issues related to the Commission, she would ask to be included on 
the notice.      
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that me
 etings of a public body be properly noticed and 
that they be open to the public, unless a lawful executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body 
with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law defines 
“deliberation” broadly as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction.” Id. For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is “a simple majority of the 
members of the public body.” Id.  
 
 
4 The complaint also makes assertions with respect to a request made for various records, including draft executive 
session minutes, regarding a complaint that the Complainant believes was discussed in executive session on 
February 26. Because this portion of the complaint does not clearly allege a violation of the Open Meeting Law, we 
decline to address it. See OML 2024-94; OML 2021-186, n.1. However, we remind the Board of its obligations 
under the Open Meeting Law to timely respond to requests for meeting minutes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22. 
5 A recording of the Board’s March 11 meeting may be found at http://gctv.georgetownma.gov/show/7807. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to post notice at least 48 hours in advance 
of any meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The 
Open Meeting Law further requires that meeting notices include, among other things, a list of the 
topics that the chair, and any other individual responsible for creating the notice, reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2020-152.
6 A public 
body may discuss, and even vote on, a truly unanticipated topic that has arisen within 48 hours of 
a meeting. See OML 2020-172. However, the Attorney General strongly recommends that public 
bodies postpone discussion and action on unanticipated topics that are controversial or may be of 
particular interest to the public if the topic can wait until a subsequent meeting. See OML 2019-
131. 
 
To the
 extent the complaint alleges that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law 
by improperly deliberating during the Board’s March 11 meeting, we find that the Commission 
did not. Based on the facts before us, including the facts as alleged in the complaint, it is clear 
that a quorum of the Commission was not present at the March 11 meeting. Therefore, the 
Commission could not have improperly deliberated during the meeting. Additionally, we find 
that the Board also did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. After reviewing the video 
recording of the March 11 meeting and the responses from the Board and the Commission, it is 
clear that the Board had not anticipated that Ms. Candia would discuss the Commission during 
the March 11 meeting.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board and the Commission did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this 
determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may 
be pending with the Board, the Commission, or our office. Please feel free to contact our office 
at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
cc: Kerri McManus, Town Clerk (via email: KMcManus@georgetownma.gov)  
Michael Donahue (via email: ) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
