===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
February 4, 2021 
          
       OML 2021 -  8  
 
 
Matthew Feher, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By e-mail only:  
 
 RE:        Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Feher: 
 
 This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on September 18, 2020, alleging 
that the Swansea Redevelopment Authority Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, as modified by Governor Charles Baker’s March 12 order 
temporarily suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting Law.1 The complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on August 11, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by 
letter dated August 25.2 The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it held a meeting on August 10 and did not provide the public with real-time access.   
 
 Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged.  
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the request for further review filed with our office. In addition, we reviewed the 
notice and minutes of the August 10 meeting. 
 
FACTS 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 
2 We take this opportunity to remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of 
receipt of a complaint, a public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if 
appropriate; send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the 
Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 
CMR 29.05(5). See OML Declination 8-7-2019 (Pepperell Board of Selectmen). Here, the Board did not respond to 
the complaint until June 24, although its response was due June 19. We remind the Board of its obligations under the 
Law.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
We find the facts as follows. On March 10, Governor Baker declared a state of 
emergency in response to the public health emergency created by the outbreak of the 2019 novel 
Coronavirus (“COVID-19”). See Exec. Order No. 591 (Mar. 10, 2020). On March 12, Governor 
Baker issued an executive order temporarily suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting 
Law during the state of emergency. See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open 
Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”). The Executive Order 
temporarily suspends the requirements under the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s 
Open Meeting Law regulations that 1) a quorum of a public body, including the chair, be 
physically present at the meeting location; and 2) meetings be held in locations that are 
physically accessible to the public. The Executive Order relieves a public body from the 
requirement to hold its meetings in locations that are physically accessible to the public only if 
the public body provides adequate, alternative means of public access.  
 
On August 6, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on August 10 at 5:15 P.M. 
The notice included the location of the meeting as “School Administration Building, 1 Gardner’s 
Neck Road, Swansea, MA.” Below, the notice stated “Due to COVID-19, this meeting will be 
closed to the public.  A full audio recording will be made available on the municipal website 
https://town.swansea.ma.us/selectmens-office/pages/redvelopment-authority-meetings, as soon 
as possible at the conclusion of the meeting.” The notice then listed the specific topics to be 
discussed. On August 7, the complainant emailed the administrative assistant in the Selectmen’s 
Office, asking “Where is the access to the redevelopment authority meeting or is the public 
allowed to attend in person?”  The administrative assistant responded, “The Redevelopment 
Authority is closed to the public.  An audio recording will be provided on the town website at the 
conclusion of the meeting.” 
 
The August 10 meeting was held as planned.  The public was not permitted to attend the 
meeting in person, nor was real-time remote access provided.  The meeting was recorded and a 
recording was posted on the municipal website afterwards.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the  
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of  
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement  
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public. G.L. c. 30A, §20(a) (except  
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”). 
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as  
well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 
2020-100; OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54.3 
 
The Executive Order suspended the requirement that meetings be physically accessible to 
members of the public, but only if a public body provides adequate, alternative means for the 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
public to access its meetings. The Executive Order provides that “[a]dequate, alternative means 
of public access shall mean measures that provide transparency and permit timely and effective 
public access to the deliberations of the public body . . . [enabling] the public to clearly follow 
the proceedings of the public body while those activities are occurring.” Executive Order at ¶ 1 
(emphasis added). These measures include “providing public access through telephone, internet 
or satellite enabled audio or video conferencing or any other technology.” Id. The Executive 
Order includes an exception to the requirement to provide real-time access to a public body’s 
proceedings, but only in cases where, due to economic hardship and despite best efforts, a public 
body is unable to provide real-time access. Id.; OML 2020-67. In these cases, the Executive 
Order states that “a public body may instead post on its municipal website a full and complete 
transcript, recording, or other comprehensive record of the proceedings as soon as practicable 
upon the conclusion of the proceedings.” Id.  
  
The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it did not 
provide the public with real-time access to its August 10 meeting. The Board responds that the 
Board “was unable, despite best efforts to have the meeting live streamed but … was fully 
transparent in posting an audio recording on the Authority’s website, as of the following day.” 
However, the Board does not assert that its inability to provide real-time access to the meeting 
was due to economic hardship, nor does the Board identify any efforts that were made to provide 
real-time access to its meeting.  We note that prior to and around the time of the August 10 
meeting, other public bodies in Swansea were providing real-time access to their remote 
meetings by broadcasting meetings live on local cable access television, on Facebook, and on the 
local cable access website. 
 
Therefore, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to provide 
real-time access to the August 10 meeting without showing that the inability to provide real-time 
access to the meeting was despite best efforts and due to economic hardship.  
 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution 
that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (by email:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
