===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
February 9, 2012 
2012 OML - 9 
Roger Ferris 
Town Counsel 
Town of North Attleboro 
7 Peck Street, P.O. Box 155 
North Attleboro, MA 01703 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint — North Attleboro Board of Selectmen 
Dear Attorney Ferris: 
This office received three Open Meeting Law complaints referred to us by the Bristol 
County District Attorney's Office in a letter dated February 15, 2011. The complaints were filed 
by Ms. Valerie A. Hickey, Mr. Michael J. Coyle, and Mr. Christopher LeBlanc against the North 
Attleboro Board of Selectmen (the "Board") regarding meetings that took place on November 
19, 2009 and December 1, 2009. The complaint was originally received by the Bristol County 
District Attorney's Office on or around December 11, 2009. 
On July 1, 2010, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, replaced the municipal Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 39, §§ 23A-C, and gave our office responsibility for enforcing the Open Meeting Law at all 
levels of government. Because the violations alleged in the complaints occurred before that date, 
however, we applied the law as it existed at the time the complaints were filed. 
After reviewing the complaints, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law during the two meetings specified in the complaints. However, we find that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post notice for its subcommittee meetings during its 
investigation of the Fire Commission. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
December 11, 2009 written complaints from Valerie A. Hickey, Michael J. Coyle, and 
Christopher LeBlanc; meeting minutes from the North Attleboro Board of Selectmen's meetings 
from November 19, 2009, August 6, 2009, and August 27, 2009; correspondence dated January 
4, 2010 from you to Assistant District Attorney ("ADA") William Connolly in response to the 
Open Meeting Law complaint; correspondence dated March 2, 2010 from Town Counsel Ferris 
to ADA Connolly; Fire Department Liaison Report dated October 27, 2009; and DVD recordings 
of North Attleboro Board of Selectmen's meetings on October 27, 2009, and November 19, 
1 
===PAGE 2===
2009. Finally, we interviewed Selectmen Michael Thompson and Mark Williamson by 
telephone on September 9, 2011. 
FACTS 
On August 6, 2009, the Board of Selectmen voted to create a subcommittee, called the 
Review Team, in response to a series of written complaints against the Fire Commissioners. The 
complaints related to a number of issues regarding the Commissioners and the Fire Department, 
and specifically the Fire Commissioners' investigation of complaints against the Fire Chief. The 
Review Team consisted of Board members Michael Thompson and Mark Williamson, both of 
whom were appointed by the Board as liaisons to the Fire Department in April 2009. On August 
13, 2009, the Board authorized the Review Team to hire a consultant with expertise in fire 
department administration to assist them in their investigation. According to Selectman 
Williamson, Town Counsel provided them with the name of a consultant, retired Fire Chief 
Edward Murphy. On August 27, 2009, the Board voted to hire retired Chief Murphy as a 
consultant to the Review Team. 
With a consultant in place, the Review Team conducted interviews beginning in 
September 2009 and concluding in October 2009. The Review Team claims that they instructed 
Town Hall to post each interview as an open meeting of the Review Team. However, notice was 
never posted. The Board claims this was a "clerical oversight." The Review Team did record 
each interview, and released the minutes, tape recordings, transcriptions and written findings on 
November 19, 2009. 
On October 27, 2009, the Review Team presented its findings to the full Board of 
Selectmen. According to both Selectmen Thompson and Williamson, the Review Team 
disbanded following release of its report at the October 27th meeting. On November 19, 2009, 
the Board voted to terminate the three appointed members of the Board of Fire Commissioners — 
who are also the complainants in this matter. The complaints allege that the Board members also 
voted to appoint themselves as the new fire commissioners. The Board disputes this claim. The 
video recording of the Board's November 19, 2009 meeting shows that Selectman Williamson 
made a motion, stating: 
I ask for the support from this Board that you allow Mr. Thompson and I to schedule a 
meeting as soon as possible with the fire chief for the purpose of reviewing current and 
outstanding business that would need to come before this board. 
It is my understanding that as an interim measure, this board will need to serve as the fire 
commissioners until such time as the vacancies have been filled. So I would ask for 
support from this Board to allow Mr. Thompson and I to meet with the Fire Chief and 
then report back to this Board as to business that needs to be considered by this board 
relative to the fire department. 
The motion passed unanimously. Although the Review Team officially dissolved on 
October 27, 2009, Selectmen Thompson and Williamson continued to serve as Board liaisons to 
the Fire Department (with one as a primary and the other as an alternate). On November 23, 
2009, Selectmen Thompson and Williamson met with Town Administrator Mark Fisher and Fire 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Chief Peter Lamb. The Board asserts that Selectmen Thompson and Williamson were acting in 
their capacity as Board liaisons to the Fire Department when meeting with the Town 
Administrator and the Fire Chief. According to the two selectmen, the purpose of this meeting 
was to reach out to the Fire Chief to determine if any items required action by the Fire 
Commissioners, as they had all been removed. For example, the Fire Commissioners regularly 
review abatement appeals for people billed for ambulance services. The Fire Chief mentioned 
some items that might come up, but did not identify any that required immediate action. 
Following this meeting, the two Selectmen reported back to the Board. 
On December 1, 2009, Selectmen Thompson and Williamson met with a number of 
individuals in the Fire Department, some of whom were the original complainants against the 
Fire Commissioners. Again, the Board asserts that Selectmen Thompson and Williamson 
conducted this meeting in their capacity as liaisons to the Fire Department. According to 
Selectmen Williamson, the purpose of this meeting was to review the Board's fmdings with 
members of the Fire Department and assess the Department's morale. Following this meeting, 
the two Selectmen reported back to the Board. 
Selectmen Thompson and Williamson assert that there were no communications outside 
of posted meetings between a quorum of the Board during or following the investigation. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law, as it existed in 2009, defined, in part, a "governmental body" 
subject to the law as "every board, commission, committee or subcommittee of any district, city, 
region or town, however elected, appointed or otherwise constituted." G.L. c. 39, § 23A 
(repealed by Chapter 28 of the Acts of 2009, Section 20). A "deliberation" was defined as "a 
verbal exchange between a quorum of members of a governmental body attempting to arrive at a 
decision on any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. A "meeting" was defined as "any 
corporal convening and deliberation of a governmental body for which a quorum is required in 
order to make a decision at which any public business or public policy matter over which the 
governmental body has supervision, control, jurisdiction or advisory power is discussed or 
considered; but shall not include any on-site inspection of any project or program." Icl. The law 
further required that 	 meetings of a governmental body shall be open to the public and any 
person shall be permitted to attend any meeting except as otherwise provided by this section. No 
quorum of a governmental body shall meet in private for the purpose of deciding on or 
deliberating toward a decision on any matter except as provided by this section." G.L. c. 39, § 
23B (repealed by Chapter 28 of the Acts of 2009, Section 20). The law also required that a 
public body post notice of its meetings with the municipal clerk at least 48 hours prior to the 
meeting, excluding Sundays and legal holidays. Id. 
1. The Board Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law During its November 23, 2009 and 
December 1, 2009 Meetings.  
The complainants allege that the Review Team is a subcommittee subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, and that the Review Team met on November 23, 2009 and December 1, 2009 
without posting notice or opening the meetings to the public. The Board acknowledges that the 
Review Team was a subcommittee of the Board, and thus a public body subject to the Open 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Meeting Law, but asserts that the Review Team dissolved after the Board's October 27, 2009 
meeting. The Board states that Selectmen Thompson and Williamson were meeting in their 
capacity as Board liaisons to the Fire Department on November 23, 2009 and December 1, 2009. 
Those meetings, according to the Board, were not meetings of any subcommittee or public body. 
While the Board asserts that Selectmen Thompson and Williamson were acting as 
liaisons to the Fire Department and were not a subcommittee during the two meetings in 
question, the distinction is not entirely clear. Regardless of whether the two Selectmen 
constituted a subcommittee of the Board or whether they were merely acting as liaisons to the 
Fire Department, it appears these two Board members did not "deliberate" at either the 
November 23, 2009 or December 1, 2009 meetings. As noted earlier, "deliberation" was defined 
under the prior version of the law as "a verbal exchange between a quorum of members of a 
governmental body attempting to arrive at a decision on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." G.L. c. 39, § 23A. At the November 23, 2009 meeting with the Town 
Administrator and the Fire Department Chief, Selectmen Thompson and Williamson sought to 
determine if any items previously handled by the Fire Commissioners required action by the 
Board. The two selectmen did not engage in any decision-making; they merely gathered 
information to report back to the full Board. Thus, there was no "attempt to arrive at a decision 
on any public business," and no violation of the Open Meeting Law. Id. 
The December 1, 2009 meeting was conducted in a similar manner. Selectmen 
Thompson and Williamson met with the members of the Fire Department to discuss the Board's 
recent investigation and removal of the Fire Commissioners, and report back to the Board the 
concerns of the members of the Department. Once again, there was no "attempt to arrive at a 
decision on any public business," and thus no deliberation and no Open Meeting Law violation. 
G.L. c. 39, § 23A. 
2. The Review Team Violated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Post Notice for its 
Meetings.  
The Open Meeting Law, as it existed in 2009, required that a public body post notice of its 
meetings with the municipal clerk at least 48 hours prior to the meeting, excluding Sundays and 
legal holidays. G.L. c. 39A, § 23B. The Review Team claims that they instructed Town Hall to 
post each of their interview meetings as an open meeting of the Review Team. However, notice 
was never posted. The Board claims this was a "clerical oversight." Even if it was a clerical 
oversight, holding meetings that were not properly posted violated the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by sending two 
representatives to meet with members of the Fire Department on November 23, 2009 and 
December 1, 2009. We find that the Board's Review Team did violate the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to post notice for its interview meetings. We also note for future reference that, under 
the current version of the Open Meeting Law, a multiple-member subset of the Board charged 
with gathering information and advising the Board may be considered a subcommittee subject to 
4 
===PAGE 5===
the Open Meeting Law.' Because this violation occurred prior to July 1, 2010, before the 
Attorney General assumed authority to enforce the Open Meeting Law at the municipal level, we 
do not have the authority to order the Board to undertake remedial action. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during this investigation, and 
now consider this matter closed. 
Sincerely, 
nathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-964-2045 
cc: 	 Valerie A. Hickey 
Michael J. Coyle 
Christopher LeBlanc 
ADA William Connolly, Bristol District Attorney's Office 
'A "subcommittee" now includes "any multiple-member body created to advise or make recommendations to a 
public body." G.L c. 30A, § 18. "Deliberation" is now defined, in part, as "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction." Id. And a "meeting" is defined, in part, as "a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." Id. Because the definition of "deliberation" is much broader, 
there is no longer a requirement that the members communicate in an attempt to arrive at a decision on public 
business. Any communication between and among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction will now trigger the requirement for a posted, public meeting. 
5 