===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
April 15, 2026 
 
OML 2026 – 46 
 
 
Maya Plotkin 
Chair, Westwood School Committee 
200 Nahatan Street 
Westwood, MA 02090  
 
By email only: mplotkin-sc@westwood.k.12.ma.us  
 
 RE:        Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Plotkin: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on October 10, 2025, alleging that 
the Westwood School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on September 19, 2025, 
and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated October 20, 
2025.
1  The complaint alleges that the Committee posted a notice with insufficient specificity for 
a meeting held on September 11, 2025, and failed to conduct a roll call vote prior to convening in 
executive session during the September 11, 2025, meeting.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review.  In addition, we reviewed the notice and open session minutes of the Committee meeting 
held on September 11, 2025, as well as a video recording of that meeting.2 
 
 
1 We remind the Committee that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a 
complaint, the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; 
send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken ; and send to the Attorney General 
a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).    
2 A video recording of the September 11, 2025, Committee meeting is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0BSwWGale-Q.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On September 9, 2025, at 11:42 A.M., the Committee 
posted notice of a meeting to be held on September 11, 2025, at 6:30 P.M.  The notice listed 
eight main topic headings under which more specific item descriptions were listed that further 
advised the public of the topics to be discussed.  One of the topics was an Executive Session to 
“discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if it may have a detrimental 
effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the Committee” and to “conduct strategy 
sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.” 
 
The September 11, 2025, meeting was held as planned.  During the meeting, the 
Committee first discussed the open session topics listed on the notice.  After discussing the open 
session topics, the Chair asked for a motion to convene in executive session.  Committee 
Member Anthony Mullin moved to enter executive session to discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining or litigation if it may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or 
litigating position of the Committee and also to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract 
negotiations with nonunion personnel.  Mr. Mullen then announced that the Committee would 
not be returning to open session.  The motion was seconded by JoAnna French and the Chair 
then asked, “All in favor?”  Committee members responded, in unison, by saying “Aye” and 
raising their hands. 
 
During the executive session, the Committee discussed the renewal of the 
Superintendent’s contract and the possible settlement of a litigation matter with a former teacher.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a 
public body be conducted in an open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 
21(a).  Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that 
a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each 
member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly 
announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.
3   
 
A public body may enter executive session “[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation 
for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract 
negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”).  When convening 
in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2, a public body must identify the nonunion personnel 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
or collective bargaining unit with whom it will be negotiating, if doing so will not compromise 
the lawful purpose for secrecy.  See OML 2017-53; OML 2016-43; OML 2013-151.   
 
Another permissible reason to convene in executive session is “to discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).  This purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with 
respect to litigation that is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise 
demonstrably likely; the mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3.  See 
Doherty v. School Committee of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Perryman v. School 
Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-05.  When convening in 
executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body should identify the litigation matter to be 
discussed, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy.  See OML 2016-12; 
OML 2013-97.   
 
The complaint alleges that the executive session topic listed on the September 11, 2025, 
meeting notice lacked sufficient specificity where it did not identify the nonunion personnel with 
whom the Committee would be negotiating nor the litigation matter it would be discussing in 
executive session.  Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in 
an announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also 
District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. School Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] 
precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary . . . because that 
is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, 
and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper.”).   
 
The Committee maintains that identifying the litigation matter would have compromised 
its ability to negotiate a settlement agreement with respect to that ongoing litigation matter.  We 
are satisfied that the Committee has demonstrated a reasonable basis for its claim that identifying 
the specific litigation matter may have compromised the purpose for the executive session.  
Therefore, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this regard.  See 
OML 2025-185; OML 2024-195.  Nonetheless, we remind the Committee that in general when 
discussing a litigation matter in executive session a public body should identify the specific 
litigation matter in some way.  See, e.g., OML 2016-152 (“In prior determinations, we have 
required public bodies to disclose the name of the litigation matter under discussion, or to 
include some description of the litigation issue the body sought to discuss.”); OML 2024-168 
(clarifying that with respect to complaints before the Massachusetts Commission Against 
Discrimination, a public body may, out of concern for the privacy of the complainant, withhold 
the complainant's identity while still identifying the type of litigation matter to be discussed).  
 
With respect to the Committee’s failure to identify the Superintendent as the nonunion 
personnel with whom it would be negotiating in executive session, the Committee maintains that 
identifying the Superintendent as the nonunion personnel would “have undermined his 
professional standing and effectiveness within the District if the Committee had voted not to 
renew his contract.”  We find that the Committee has not demonstrated a reasonable basis for its 
claim that identifying the nonunion personnel may have compromised the purpose for the 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
executive session.  As such, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in this 
regard.  We take this opportunity to remind the Committee that the scope of Purpose 2 is limited 
to the discussions, negotiations, and deliberations that occur prior to the execution of a contract. 
See OML 2023-78.  The Open Meeting Law does not permit a public body to execute a contract 
behind closed doors where the public cannot witness the agreement.  A public body may reach 
an agreement on the terms of a contract in executive session but it must subsequently vote to 
approve or ratify such an agreement in open session.  See OML 2023-78; OML 2021-187; OML 
2011-44.  
 
 Finally, the complaint alleges that the Committee failed to conduct a roll call vote prior 
to convening in executive session on September 11, 2025.  The Committee acknowledges, and 
we agree, that the Committee failed to comply with this procedural requirement.  Here, after the 
motion was made to convene in executive session, the Chair asked, “All in favor” and 
Committee members responded, in unison, “Aye” and raised their hands.  This was a violation of 
the Open Meeting Law as the law specifically requires that the vote of each member to enter 
executive session be by roll call.
4  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21 (b).  A roll call vote is “the act or an 
instance of calling off a list of names.”  Webster’s Third New International Dictionary of the 
English Language, 683 (unabridged ed. 1961).  This requirement is intended to create a clear 
record of what occurred and to reflect the significance of holding a discussion behind closed 
doors.  See OML 2015-131; OML 2014-94; OML 2012-10.  Failure to follow required 
procedures casts doubt on the validity of any action taken during an executive session.  See OML 
2023-207; OML 2013-9; OML 2012-68. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by posting an insufficiently specific notice for the September 11, 2025, meeting where the notice  
failed to identify the nonunion personnel that was the subject of the executive session, and by 
failing to conduct a roll call vote prior to convening in executive session on September 11, 2025.  
We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and 
we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
law. 
 
 
 
 
4 We note our concern with the accuracy of the minutes of the September 11, 2025, meeting where  the minutes 
reflect that roll call votes were taken during the Committee’s approval of “Action Items” and to convene in 
executive session.  The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body create and maintain accurate minutes of all 
meetings setting forth a summary of the discussions on each subject and the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  To be “accurate,” meeting minutes must 
accurately reflect the discussions that took place during a meeting.  See OML 2020-62.  Because the minutes must 
accurately capture the discussions and actions that actually took place, it is inappropriate to include information in 
meeting minutes that was not discussed or did not occur at a meeting.  See OML 2021-128.  We encourage the 
Committee to revise the minutes to reflect the votes as they actually occurred during the September 11, 2025, 
meeting. 
  
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
  
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
   
 
cc:       Patrick Higgins – By email only:  
Westwood School Committee – By email only: schoolcommittee@westwood.k12.ma.us 
Westwood Town Clerk – By email only: dpowers@westwoodma.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
