===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
vvww.mass.gov/ago 
August 5, 2015 
OML 2015-109 
Robert S. Troy, Esq. 
Troy Wall Associates 
90 Route 6A 
Sandwich, MA 02563 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Troy: 
This office received six complaints from Ronald Beaty, alleging that the Barnstable 
County Assembly of Delegates (the "Assembly") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaints allege that: 1) the notices for meetings of the Assembly's 
Standing Committee on Finance, held on March 25, April 1, and April 8, were "not sufficiently 
specific to inform the public about the list of items to be discussed and to be voted upon;" 2) the 
notices for the Assembly meetings on April 1 and on April 15 were "not sufficiently specific to 
inform the public about the list of items to be discussed and to be voted upon;" and 3) that a 
quorum of the Assembly met during its Standing Committee on Finance meeting on March 25, 
without posting notice for a meeting of the full Assembly.1 
Following our review, we find that the Assembly did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the six complaints filed with the Assembly, the 
Assembly's responses, and the six complaints filed with our office. We reviewed the notices for 
meetings of the Assembly's Standing Committee on Finance, held on March 25, April 1, and 
April 8, and for the Assembly meetings held on April 1 and April 15. Additionally, we reviewed 
1 All dates refer to the year 2015. The complaints were filed with our office on April 15 (2 complaints), April 17, 
April 22, and April 28 (2 complaints). The first complaint was filed with the Assembly on March 23, and the 
Assembly responded by letter dated April 7. The second complaint was filed with the Assembly on March 28, and 
the Assembly responded by letter dated April 14. The third complaint was filed with the Assembly on March 31, 
and the Assembly responded by letter dated April 14. The fourth complaint was filed with the Assembly on March 
30, and the Assembly responded by letter dated April 7. The fifth complaint was filed with the Assembly on April 
5, and the Assembly responded by letter dated April 21. The sixth complaint was filed with the Assembly on April 
12, and the Assembly responded by letter dated April 27. 
===PAGE 2===
the Barnstable County Home Rule Charter.2 Finally, we spoke with Mr. Beaty by telephone on 
May 1. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Assembly is a 15-member public body that is the 
legislative branch of the Barnstable County government. The Barnstable County Home Rule 
Charter provides for weighted voting of its members, based on the population of the community 
each member represents. In particular, the following members have votes weighted as such: Ned 
Hitchcock, representing Wellfleet, has 1.27% of the vote; James Killion, representing Sandwich, 
has 9.58% of the vote; Marcia King, representing Mashpee, has 6.49% of the vote; Suzanne 
McAuliffe, representing Yarmouth, has 11.02% of the vote; Patrick Princi, representing 
Barnstable, has 20.92% of the vote; John Ohman, representing Dennis, has 6.58% of the vote; 
and Deborah McCutcheon, representing Truro, has 0.93% of the vote. 
The Assembly has a five member Standing Committee on Finance. The members of the 
Standing Committee on Finance, who are also members of the Assembly, include John Ohman, 
Julia Taylor, Teresa Martin, Suzanne McAuliffe, and Deborah McCutcheon. 
The notice for the March 25 meeting of the Assembly's Standing Committee on Finance 
listed the following topic: 
The purpose of the meeting is to review the [Regional Commissioners']3 proposed FY 
2016 budget (Proposed Ordinance 15-02) including recommendations from the Chairs of 
each Standing Committee of the Assembly for each County department budget. Votes 
may be taken and recommendations made to the full Assembly. Copies of the proposed 
budget for FY 2016 are available in the Office of the Assembly Clerk and online at 
www.barnstablecounty.org. 
The notice for the April 1 meeting of the Assembly's Standing Committee on Finance 
listed the following topic: 
The puipose of the meeting is to conduct a public hearing (see separate Public Hearing 
Notice) followed by discussion and review of proposed Ordinance 15-02 ([Regional 
Commissioners'] proposed FY 2016 budget). Votes may be taken and recommendations 
made. Copies of Proposed Ordinance 15-02 and the proposed budget for FY 2016 are 
available in the Office of the Assembly Clerk and online at www.bamstablecounty.org. 
2 The Barnstable County Home Rule Charter may be found at http://www.bamstablecountv.org/wp-
content/uploads/2014/03/Ciirrent-Home-Rule-Charter-2010.pdf. 
J The original notice read "Regional Commissioner's." The complainant points to this grammatical error (which 
also appears in other notices discussed in this letter) as evidence of the lack of specificity in the notice, arguing that 
a reader would not know which commissioner had proposed the FY 2016 budget. We believe that the context of the 
notice makes clear that the topic refers to the collective Regional Commissioners' proposed FY 2016 budget. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The notice for the Assembly's April 1 meeting included the following topic: "13. Other 
Business: Preliminary discussion on Proposed Ordinance 15-02 - FY 16 Budget NO VOTES 
WILL BE TAKEN ON THIS SUBJECT MATTER." 
The notice for the April 8 meeting of the Assembly's Standing Committee on Finance 
listed the following topic: 
The purpose of the meeting is to consider, discuss and review the [Regional 
Commissioners'] proposed FY 2016 budget (proposed Ordinance 15-02) as submitted to 
the full Assembly on 2/18/15. The committee may vote and make recommendations to 
the full Assembly for consideration. Copies of the proposed budget for FY 2016 are 
available in the Office of the Assembly Clerk and online at www.barnstablecounty.org. 
The notice for the Assembly's April 15 meeting included the following topic: "12. 
Assembly Vote: Proposed Ordinance 15-02 (proposed County budget for FY 16)." 
On March 25, the Assembly's Standing Committee on Finance held a meeting. The 
meeting was attended by Committee members John Ohman, Suzanne McAuliffe, and Deborah 
McCutcheon, as well as Assembly members Ned Hitchcock, James Killion, Marcia King, and 
Patrick Princi. The members of the Standing Committee on Finance present at the meeting 
represented 18.53% of the Assembly vote. The additional Assembly members present at the 
meeting represented 38.26% of the Assembly vote. Together, they constituted 56.79% of the 
Assembly vote. During the March 25 meeting, the Committee members and other Assembly 
members discussed the Regional Commissioners' proposed FY 2016 budget, including 
recommendations for the chairs of each Assembly standing committee for each County 
department budget. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Notices for the Assembly and Committee Meetings at Issue were Sufficiently 
Specific. 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Notices must include 
"a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." Id. 
The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to 
be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
Mr. Beaty alleges that the notices for meetings of the Assembly's Standing Committee on 
Finance held on March 25, April 1, and April 8, and the notices for the Assembly's April 1 and 
April 15 meetings, were not sufficiently specific. When reviewing a meeting notice for 
sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting notice 
standing alone. Rather, we review what was actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the 
3 
===PAGE 4===
notice was sufficiently detailed to make the public aware of the discussion topics. See OML 
2014-155.4 
Here, we find that on their face, the notices for the March 25, Aprill, April 8, and April 
15 meetings met the statutory requirements by providing the list of topics the chair reasonably 
anticipated the Assembly would discuss. Because each of these meetings had not yet occurred 
when Mr. Beaty filed the corresponding complaint, we find no violation of the Law. We 
encourage Mr. Beaty, in the future, to reach out to the public body if he believes a notice may 
lack sufficient detail, rather than to file an Open Meeting Law complaint prior to the meeting. 
Even where notices are posted immediately prior to the 48 hour window, the Assembly can 
update its notices with additional detail if it subsequently learns they may be unclear. 
2. The Assembly did not Violate the Open Meeting Law during the Standing Committee 
on Finance's March 25 Meeting because a Quorum was not Present. 
Mr. Beaty alleges that the Assembly violated the Open Meeting Law because a voting 
majority of Assembly members attended and participated in the March 25 meeting of the 
Standing Committee on Finance, even though the Assembly did not post notice for a meeting of 
the full Assembly on that date. A public body must post notice of every meeting involving a 
quorum of its members. G.L. c. 30A, §§18, 20(b). A quorum is defined by the Open Meeting 
Law as, "a simple majority of the members of the public body, unless otherwise provided in a 
general or special law, executive order or other authorizing provision." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The 
Barnstable County Home Rule Charter is the authorizing provision that governs the Assembly's 
quorum requirements. Barnstable County Home Rule Charter § 2-5(c). According to the 
Barnstable County Home Rule Charter, "[a] number of members of the assembly of delegates 
representing in the aggregate a majority of the population of Barnstable county shall constitute a 
quorum, provided at least eight delegates are present." Barnstable County Home Rule Charter § 
2-5(c). Thus, a quorum of the Assembly is a minimum of eight members, assuming the eight 
represent a voting majority. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; Barnstable County Home Rule Charter § 2-
5(c). 
The Assembly's Standing Committee on Finance noticed a March 25 meeting, at which 
several members of the Assembly who were not members of that committee also attended, for a 
total of seven Assembly members present. Although the seven Assembly members present 
constituted 56.79% of the Assembly vote, this satisfied only one of the Charter's requirements 
for a finding of quorum. Not only must the members present represent a majority of the 
population of Barnstable County, but there must also be eight members present. Because here 
there were only seven members of the Assembly present, we find that the Assembly was not 
required to post notice for an Assembly meeting. Compare OML 2012-6 (finding that a city 
council was required to post notice of a subcommittee meeting for which a majority of council 
members attended). 
We note that the Barnstable County Home Rule Charter allows for a majority of the 
Assembly vote to communicate without reaching a quorum, and without the need to notice a 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
meeting unless eight members are present. While the complainant may be correct that such 
activity creates suspicion in the minds of the public and reduces transparency in government, it 
does not violate the Open Meeting Law, because a quorum of the Assembly is not engaging in a 
deliberation as defined by G.L. c. 30A, § 18. See OML 2012-62. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Assembly did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve any 
other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Assembly. Please feel free to 
contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Barnstable County Assembly of Delegates 
Ronald Beaty 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
5 