===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
May 2, 2016 
OML 2016-58 
John P. Flynn, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey, and Lehane, LLP 
300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410 
Quincy, MA 02169 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Flynn: 
This office received a complaint from Michael Chinman, dated March 25, 2016, alleging 
that the Milton Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 17, 2016, and, after an 
extension of time was granted by our office, the Board responded by letter dated March 9, 2016.' 
In his complaint, Mr. Chinman alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) 
entering executive session without a valid purpose; and (ii) deliberating outside of an Open 
Meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for review filed with our office. We reviewed the notice of a Board meeting held on 
February 11, 2016. We also reviewed the minutes—both open and executive session—of this 
t ^ 
meeting. Finally, we spoke with the Board's legal counsel by telephone on April 19, 2016. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is the appointing authority for the Milton Police 
Chief. The current Police Chiefs contract is set to expire on June 30, 2016. The Board began 
negotiating with the Police Chief in August 2015, although the parties were unable to reach a 
compromise on any contact extension for the Police Chief. On January 14, 2016, the Board's 
labor counsel informed the Board that, if negotiations with the Police Chief were not going to 
result in agreement, the Board should convene a screening committee to find a new candidate. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
1 We note that our office granted an extension until March 8, 2016. The Board replied by letter dated March 9, 
2016, and this letter was received by our office on March 14, 2016. We remind the Board of its obligation to 
respond to Open Meeting Law complaints in a timely manner. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
On February 3, 2016, the Board's labor counsel sent an e-mail to the Police Chief s legal 
counsel containing the Board's final offer. The e-mail also stated that, should the final offer not 
be accepted, the Board would move forward and vote not to renew the Police Chiefs contract. 
The e-mail also stated that the Board would read a prepared statement if the parties were unable 
Lo reach an agreement. 
On February 11, 2016, the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on February 16, 
2016. Among the anticipated discussion topics listed on the notice was, "Executive Session— 
Strategy Session with Respect to Negotiations with Non-Union Personnel (Police Chief), 
Litigation (711 Randolph Avenue, 131 Eliot Street)." 
On February 12, 2016, the Police Chiefs counsel sent an e-mail to the Board's labor 
counsel rejecting the Board's final offer and presenting a counteroffer. On this same date, the 
Board's labor counsel responded by e-mail, stating, "[Y]our response indicates that the Board's 
offer was not accepted. Thus, as noted in [the prior e-mail], the Board will move forward and 
vote not to renew Chief Wells' contract and will initiate succession planning steps." 
Subsequently, Board member Kathleen Conlon prepared a draft of a statement on behalf of the 
Board to be read if negotiations with the Police Chief indeed failed. Ms. Conlon created the 
draft in collaboration with the Board's labor counsel and did not discuss it with the other Board 
members. 
The Board held the February 16, 2016 meeting as planned. During this meeting, the 
Board voted unanimously to enter executive session for the purposes detailed on the agenda. 
While in executive session, the Board discussed the counteroffer contained in the February 12, 
o t > > f 
2016 e-mail, ultimately voting to reject it. The minutes of the executive session state, "Prior to 
the meeting. Board members had received an updated draft of a statement to be read by the Chair 
in the event that Chief Wells had not accepted one of the Board's offers to settle the matter." 
The Board then reconvened in open session and voted not to renew the Police Chief s contract. 
The written statement was then read aloud, although the minutes of the meeting at issue do not 
state this. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). A public body may convene 
in executive session "[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion 
personnel or to conduct collective bargaining session or contract negotiations with nonunion 
personnel." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) ("Purpose 2"). While a public body may discuss contract 
terms in an executive session held pursuant to Purpose 2, the final contract must be executed or 
otherwise voted on in open session. See OML 2011-56.4 
Here, the complaint alleges that, because it had already been determined that the Board 
would not renew the Police Chiefs contract, there was nothing to discuss during the February 
16, 2016 executive session. This argument is unavailing. While the parties' attorneys may have 
been corresponding prior to the February 16, 2016 meeting, the minutes of the executive session 
3 The minutes of the February 16, 2016 executive session have now been released, 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
show that the Board held a substantive discussion on the merits of the Police Chiefs 
counterproposal. This is a discussion of negotiation strategy within the scope of Purpose 2, and 
it was therefore permissible to hold the discussion in an executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a)(2). 
The complaint also suggests that the Board may have held secret discussions on the 
contents of the written statement. We find insufficient evidence that any improper discussions 
took place. Rather, Ms. Conion prepared the written statement in collaboration with the Board's 
labor counsel. Because this collaboration would not constitute deliberation by a quorum of a 
public body, see G.L. c. 30A, § 18, it would not violate the Open Meeting Law. Further, the 
Board stated to our office that no improper deliberation took place. Absent evidence to the 
contrary, we credit the public body's version of events and we find that the Boa'rd did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law in this regard. See OML 2016-27. 
While not raised in the complaint, we note that the minutes of the February 16, 2016 
meeting do not reflect that the written statement regarding negotiations with the Police Chief was 
read aloud during the meeting. The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to summarize the 
discussion on each topic during a meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2016-35. We take 
this opportunity to remind the Board of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Michael Chinman 
Milton Board of Selectmen 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 