===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 22, 2026 
 
OML 2026 – 95 
 
VIA EMAIL  
 
Michele E. Randazzo, Esq. 
KP Law 
 
mrandazzo@k-plaw.com 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Attorney Randazzo:  
 
This office received a complaint from Christopher Kelleher on December 8, 2025, 
alleging that the Brookfield Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint originally was filed with the Board on October 28 and you 
responded on behalf of the Board on December 5.  The complaint alleges that the Board violated 
the Open Meeting Law at a meeting it held on May 28 when it failed to take roll call votes even 
though one Board member attended the meeting remotely.  The complaint also alleges that 
minutes of the May 28 meeting are insufficiently detailed.2   
 
We appreciate the parties’ patience as we reviewed this matter.  Following our review, 
we fin
d that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
the complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed the minutes of the May 28 
meeting.  Finally, we viewed a recording of the May 28 meeting provided by the complainant. 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on May 
28, at 6:00 p.m.  The meeting took place on May 28 and was called to order at 6:05 p.m.  Board 
Member Kim Simons joined the meeting remotely before 6:00 p.m. but it became clear almost 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2025 unless otherwise indicated. 
2 The complaint maintains that the alleged violations were not reasonably discoverable within 30 days of their 
occurrence because the Board denied him a reasonable accommodation to attend the May 28 meeting and because 
the Board did not produce a recording of the meeting until September 29, after it was ordered to do so by the 
Supervisor of Records.  The Board does not claim that the complaint is untimely.  Therefore, we assume without 
finding that the complaint was timely filed with the Board. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
immediately that a technical difficulty was preventing her from participating in the meeting.  The 
two members who attended the meeting in person, Chair Maureen Lepak and Member Christina 
Predella, attempted to resolve the technical difficulty, including by communicating with Member 
Simons by phone and text, and by reaching out to an individual named Jacob (presumably, Cable 
TV Coordinator / IT Manager Jacob Gorham).   
 
Approximately eight minutes into the meeting, with Member Simons still inaudible, the 
Board voted to take matters out of order, to give Member Simons some time to resolve the 
connection issue prior to discussing reorganization of the Board (which was scheduled to be the 
first topic of discussion).  Chair Lepak moved to discuss the Leicester Regional Public Health 
Coalition Permitting and Inspectional Updates (the “LRPHC Updates”) out of order. Member 
Predella seconded the motion and it passed.  The Board then discussed the LRPHC Updates.  At 
the conclusion of the discussion of the LRPHC Updates, the Board returned to its attempt to fully 
connect Member Simons to the meeting.  Finally, approximately 12 minutes into the meeting, 
Member Simons signed off and signed back on to the meeting.  This resolved the technical 
difficulty and Member Simons was then able to fully participate in the meeting.  During the 
course of the meeting, multiple votes were taken.  The votes were not taken by roll call.  The 
vote to take the LRPHC Updates out of order was not recorded in the minutes. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it failed to vote by roll call at its 
May 28 meeting, which one member attended remotely. 
 
The Open Meeting Law provides that the Attorney General may, by regulation or letter 
ruling, authorize remote participation at a meeting by members of a public body not present at 
the physical meeting location, provided that the remote members and all persons present at the 
meeting location are clearly audible to each other.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(d).3  The Attorney 
General’s Open Meeting Law Regulations require that “all votes taken during any meeting in 
which a member participates remotely must be by roll call vote.”  940 CMR 29.10(7)(c); see 
OML 2025-68 (“A roll call vote is ‘the act or an instance of calling off a list of names.’” quoting 
Webster’s Third New International Dictionary of the English Language, 683 (unabridged ed. 
1961)); OML 2021-9; OML 2015-145.4  The Board acknowledges that it failed to conduct votes 
by roll call at the May 28 Meeting, which Member Simon attended remotely.  Therefore, we find 
that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.  We commend the Board’s commitment to 
ensuring that going forward, it will vote by roll call when a member attends a meeting remotely.   
 
 
3 Section 20(d) requires the presence of a quorum of the body, including the chair, at the physical meeting 
location. However, that requirement was suspended during the COVID-19 state of emergency and remains 
suspended until June 30, 2027.  See Section 20 of Chapter 20 of the Acts of 2021, An Act Relative to Extending 
Certain COVID19 Measures Adopted During the State of Emergency; Chapter 2 of the Acts of 2025. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
II. The Minutes of the May 28 meeting are not sufficiently detailed. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  Minutes must set forth, among other things, a summary of 
the discussions on each subject, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.  Id.  The Board’s vote to discuss agenda topics out of order was 
not included in the minutes of the May 28 meeting.  Although this vote was not on a substantive 
matter, and merely concerned the order of topics to be discussed, it was a formal vote that should 
have been included within the minutes.  The Open Meeting Law’s requirement that votes be 
recorded in the minutes does not except votes of a housekeeping nature.  Therefore, we find that 
the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
The complaint also alleges that minutes of the May 28 meeting are insufficiently detailed 
because they do not include a summary of the discussion between Chair Lepak and Member 
Predella concerning their attempts to fully connect Member Simons to the meeting.  We do not 
find the minutes insufficient in this regard.  Minutes must contain “a summary of the discussions 
on each subject.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The comments made by Chair Lepak and Member 
Predella were, at best, a collection of disjointed remarks as they attempted to establish an audio 
connection; they were not a discussion of a matter of substance.  We do not find the minutes 
insufficiently detailed for failure to include a summary of these brief remarks. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board vio lated the Open Meeting Law 
when it failed to take votes by roll call during a meeting attended by one member remotely.  We 
also find that minutes of the May 28 meeting were insufficiently detailed because they omitted a 
vote to discuss topics out of order.  We order the Board to amend the minutes to reflect this vote 
within 60 day of the date of this letter.  We also order immediate and future compliance with 
the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence 
of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
cc: Christopher Kelleher   
Brookfield Town Administrato r (via email: townadministrator@brookfieldma.us) 
Brookfield Town Clerk (via email: mseery@brookfieldma.us) 
  
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
