===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
October 19, 2015 
OML 2015-157 
Robert S. Troy, Esq. 
Troy Wall Associates 
90 Route 6A 
Sandwich, MA 02563 
RE; Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Troy: 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty, dated July 16, alleging that the 
Bourne Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. BOA, §§ 18-
25.1 Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board's June 16 meeting notice failed to list an 
open session prior to its executive session topics, and that the notice failed to list the executive 
session topics with sufficient detail. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on June 
27. The Board responded by letter dated July 16. 
Following our review, we find that the Board's June 16 meeting notice failed to comply 
with the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed 
with the Board, the Board's response, and the complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we 
reviewed the notice for, and minutes of, the Board's June 16 meeting. 
FACTS 
The notice for the Board's June 16 meeting included the following topics: 
Executive Session 6:00 PM To discuss the complaints or charges brought against a 
public officer, employee, staff member or individual. 
Executive Session 6:40 PM To discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining. 
An open discussion may have a detrimental effect to the bargaining position of the public 
body. 
The Board will re-convene in public session following the Executive Session. 
1 All dates refer to the year 2015. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
Date Time Location 
Tuesday 7:00 p.m. Bourne Veterans'Memorial 
June 16, 2015 Community Center 
239 Main Street, Buzzards Bay 
6:15 PM Call to Order 
1. Moment of Silence for our Troops and our public safety personnel 
2. Salute the Flag 
3. Public Comment - Non-Agenda Items 
4. Minutes: April 30, 2015. 
The notice then listed an additional 6 topics for discussion in open session. According to 
the minutes of the Board's June 16 meeting, the Board began the meeting in executive session, 
without first convening in open session. It called the open session to order at 7:12 PM. 
DISCUSSION 
1. One of the Executive Session Topics in the Board's June 16 Meeting Notice Lacked 
Sufficient Detail. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, provided 
that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the pmpose for the executive 
session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3). This level of detail must also 
be included in the meeting notice. See OML 2014-145; OML 2011-15.2 
One permissible reason to convene in executive session is "[t]o discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). Another permissible purpose to enter into executive session is to 
"discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional 
competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or 
charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 3 OA, § 
21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). Because Pmpose 1 is used to protect the privacy of the individual who is 
the subject of the closed door discussion, a public body is generally not required to provide 
additional detail about the specific subject matter of its executive session discussion. See OML 
2015-106; OML 2013-141; OML 2013-20. Thus, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by omitting that information from the first executive session topic. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www, mass. go v/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
With respect to a Puipose 3 executive session, we have said that unless disclosure will 
defeat the puipose for the executive session, public bodies should state in their notice the name 
of the specific collective bargaining unit with which they will be negotiating. OML 2014-145; 
OML 2013-97. Here, the Board's notice did not identify any specific collective bargaining unit. 
In response to the complaint, the Board writes that it was intending to discuss matters relating to 
all union contracts. The Board has not argued that including this information would have 
compromised its bargaining position, therefore we find that the Board should have listed in the 
notice that it would be negotiating with all units. The Board's failure to include that information 
violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2015-14; OML 2013-129; OML 2013-91. 
2. The Notice for the Board's June 16 Meeting Failed to Clearly State the Time of the 
Meeting. 
The notice for a meeting must include the date, time, and location of the meeting, and a 
listing of the topics the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Prior to entering into executive session, a public body must convene in open session, the chair 
must state the puipose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the puipose for which the executive session was called, and a majority of the 
members of the public body must vote to enter into executive session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(b)(1)-
(3). When the only business to be discussed during an open session are the procedural 
requirements for entering executive session, we have said that public bodies must list "open 
session" on the meeting notice, as this is the only means by which members of the public are 
informed that a public body will, in fact, hold an open meeting that they are permitted to attend. 
See OML 2013-9; OML 2012-68. Without such notice, members of the public are essentially 
denied the opportunity to attend and learn the reasons for the executive session. See OML 2013-
195. However, where additional open session topics are included in a meeting notice, we have 
not required a public body list "open session" as a distinct topic. See OML 2015-105; OML 
2013-155, FN 5; OML 2013-141, FN 7. 
Here, it was clear that an open session meeting would take place, thus the Board was not 
required to separately list "open session" as a topic in the notice for its June 16 meeting.3 The 
notice did not clearly indicate when the public portion of the meeting would occur, however. 
The notice for the Board's June 16 meeting listed executive sessions at 6:00 PM and 6:40 PM. It 
also listed a Call to Order for 6:15 PM, followed by a number of open session discussion topics. 
Finally, in the middle of the notice, it stated that the meeting would begin at 7:00 PM.4 While it 
was evident that the Board did, in fact, plan to hold an open meeting that evening, it was not at 
all evident when an interested member of the public should arrive to observe the Board's public 
deliberations. We therefore find that the notice violated the Open Meeting Law by not clearly 
stating the time of the meeting. 
3 We nevertheless suggest that, in the future, the Board list "Call to Order" or "Open Session" prior to the executive 
session topics so that it is absolutely clear to members of the public that a public portion of the meeting will be held 
prior to the executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(b)(l)-(3). 
4 It appears that the 6:15 PM start time was likely a typographical error, and the Board intended that the Call to 
Order occur at 7:15 PM. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
3. The Board Failed to Convene in Open Session Prior to Entering into Executive Session 
on June 16. 
While not alleged in the complaint, our review demonstrated that the Board also violated 
the Open Meeting Law by failing to convene its meeting in open session prior to entering into 
executive session on June 16. See G.L. c. 30A, §21(b)(l). A public body may enter into 
executive session for any often enumerated purposes. G.L. c. BOA, § 21(a). Prior to entering 
into executive session, a public body must first convene in open session. G.L. c. 3OA, § 
21(b)(1). The chair must publicly announce the purpose for the executive session and the 
subjects for discussion and announce whether the public body will reconvene in open session, 
and the public body must take a roll call vote to enter into executive session. G.L. c. BOA, §§ 
Here, the Board convened its June 16 executive sessions without first convening in open 
session and voting to enter into executive session. The Board also failed to follow the other 
procedural requirements for entering into executive session. This violated the Open Meeting 
Law. See G.L. c. BOA, §§ 21(b)(l)-(4). Because the Board failed to follow proper procedures in 
convening its June 16 meeting, the Board may not rely upon the Open Meeting Law as the basis 
for continuing to withhold the minutes of that executive session. See G.L. c. BOA, § 22(f). 
However, the attorney/client privilege or one or more exemptions under the Public Records Law 
may allow the Board to withhold the minutes, or any portion thereof, from disclosure. See id.. 
We find that the Board's June 16 meeting notice failed to comply with the Open Meeting 
Law. We order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and 
caution the Board that a similar future violation may be considered evidence of an intentional 
violation of the Law. 
We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve 
any other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Board. Please feel free to 
contact our office at 617-96B-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
21(b)(2)-(4). 
OML 2015-10. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Bourne Board of Selectmen 
Ronald Beaty 
4 
===PAGE 5===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
5 