===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 21, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 139 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Mark R. Reich, Esq. 
KP Law 
mreich@k-plaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Reich: 
 
This office received a complaint from Casey Fleming alleging that the Oxford Board of 
Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint 
was filed with the Board on or about September 16, 2021, and, after an extension of time granted 
by our office, you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated October 27. The complaint 
relates to an executive session held on August 4, 2020, and alleges that 1) the Board failed to 
perform the required procedures before convening in executive session; 2) the Board “abused” 
General Laws chapter 30A, section 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”); and 3) the minutes of the executive 
session are insufficient.  
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this complaint. Following 
our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. 
Additionally, we decline to review the allegations related to the convening procedures prior to 
the August 4, 2020, executive session. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open 
Meeting Law complaint; the Board’s response; the request for further review; additional 
communications from both the Complainant and the Board; and the notices and minutes for 
meetings held on August 4, 2020, and August 3, 2021. Additionally, we communicated with the 
Complainant by email.  
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
I. The Complaint is Untimely with Respect to the Allegations Regarding the Board’s 
Procedures for Convening in Executive Session on August 4, 2020, But is Timely 
With Respect to the Other Allegations. 
 
To begin, the complaint raises several allegations related to the Board’s procedures for 
convening in executive session on August 4, 2020. We decline to review these allegations as 
they are untimely. Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with 
the public body within 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged 
violation could not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must 
be filed within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered. 940 CMR 
29.05(3).  
 
The Board posted notice for an e
 xecutive session to be held on August 4, 2020, at 5:00 
p.m., thus putting the public on notice that the Board intended to convene in executive session on 
that date. Any allegations regarding the Board’s convening procedures before entering executive 
session were discoverable on August 4, 2020, and therefore any complaint regarding these 
procedures should have been filed within 30 days of August 4, 2020. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). 
Because the complaint was not filed with the Board until September 16, 2021, we find that the 
complaint is untimely with respect to these allegations. See, e.g., OML Declination 9-18-2017 
(Hubbardston Board of Selectmen).1 
 
Although we do not formally review allegations regarding the Board’s executive session 
convening pr
ocedures, we take this opportunity to remind the Board that prior to entering 
executive session, a public body must convene in open session, the chair must state the purpose 
for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called, and a majority of the members of the public 
body must vote to enter into executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(b) (1)-(3). The public has 
a right to witness these procedural steps in order to observe the vote and learn the purpose for the 
executive session. See OML 2013-195. Relatedly, when the first or only topic for a meeting is an 
executive session, the notice must make clear that the meeting will begin with a brief open 
session that the public may attend. See OML 2019-160; OML 2013-9; OML 2012-68.  
 
Next, the Board asserts that the remaining allegations are untimely as well because the 
Board voted to release the minutes of its August 4, 2020, executive session during an executive 
session held on August 3, 2021, and because it filed the executive session minutes with the Town 
Clerk on August 5, 2021. The Board asserts that all allegations related to the use of Purpose 1 
and the sufficiency of the executive session minutes were discoverable when it filed the 
executive session minutes with the Town Clerk on August 5, 2021.  
 
We find that the notice for the Board’s August 3, 2021, meeting did not specify that the 
Board would review the August 4, 2020, executive session minutes, nor did the Board publicly 
announce that it had approved release of the August 4, 2020, executive session minutes. The 
Complainant represented that he could not recall the exact date that he first gained access to the 
August 4, 2020, executive session minutes, but that he received them from the individual who 
 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
made the public records request which prompted the Board’s review of the minutes, and that he 
believed he obtained the minutes no more than 30 days prior to filing his complaint with the 
Board. We find that simply filing the August 4, 2020, executive session minutes with the Town 
Clerk, without otherwise informing the public that the Board had reviewed and released the 
minutes, was insufficient to put the public on notice that the minutes were available. Therefore, 
allegations that could only be gleaned from the executive session minutes were not yet 
reasonably discoverable.
2  
 
II. The Board Did Not “Abuse” Executive Session Purpose 1.  
 
There are ten purposes for which a public body may enter executive, or closed, session. 
G.L. c
. 30A, § 21(a). One permissible reason to hold an executive session is “[t]o discuss the 
reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, 
of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought 
against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual” (“Purpose 1”). G.L. c. 30A, § 21 
(a)(1); see also OML 2020-76. Under Purpose 1, the individual to be discussed has certain rights, 
including the right to individual notice, to be present at the executive session, to speak on his or 
her behalf, to have counsel present, and to record the executive session. Id.  
 
The complaint asserts that the Board “abused” Purpose 1 in several ways: 1) the Board 
did not “have standing where the subject [of the Purpose 1 discussion was] a publicly elected 
member of the board”; 2) the conduct complained of was “not cause for complaint” and “[t]he 
complaints were meritless”; and 3) the rights afforded to the subject of the Purpose 1 discussion 
“were not read into the record.”  
 
We find no violation with respect to any of the above allegations. The Open Meeting Law 
does not
 prohibit a public body from discussing complaints against elected public body members 
in executive session under Purpose 1. See OML 2020-50; OML 2021-84. Additionally, the Open 
Meeting Law does not speak to or restrict what conduct may form the basis of a complaint that 
may be discussed in executive session under Purpose 1. Finally, although the Open Meeting Law 
affords the subject of a Purpose 1 executive session discussion several rights, it does not require 
that these rights be read into the record. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)1.  
  
III. The Minutes of the August 4, 2020, Executive Session Are Sufficient.  
  
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minut
es of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. 
See OML 2013-64. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough 
 
2 The Open Meeting Law requires that “The public body, or its chair or designee, shall, at reasonable intervals, 
review the minutes of executive sessions to determine if the provisions of this subsection warrant continued non-
disclosure. Such determination shall be announced at the body’s next meeting and such announcement shall be 
included in the minutes of that meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1) (Emphasis added). 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the 
minute
s and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106. After review of 
the minutes of the Board’s August 4, 2020, executive session, we find that they meet this 
standard and are sufficiently detailed.  
 
Additionally, we do not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law with re
 spect to the 
allegation that the minutes fail to “list the records that were used in the meeting.” The Open 
Meeting Law does not define what it means for a document to be used at a meeting but, at a 
minimum, it is clear that where a document is physically present, verbally identified, and the 
contents are discussed by the members of a public body during an open meeting, it has been 
“used” for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-12; OML 2012-42. After review, 
we do not find evidence that any documents were used during the meeting. Although the 
complaint asserts that if no documents were used during the meeting, the Board should note this 
fact in the minutes, the Open Meeting Law contains no such requirement.  
 
For the
 reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Dee Green, Administrative Assistant to the Oxford Board of Selectmen (via email: 
dgreen@oxfordma.us) 
Casey Fleming (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
