===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
May 10, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 90 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Richard Early 
Chair, Whittier Salary and Negotiations Subcommittee 
Whittier Regional Vocational Technical High School 
115 Amesbury Line Road 
Haverhill, MA 01830-1898 
 
earlydickjr@aol.com 
    
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Early:  
 
On February 29, 2024, this office received a complaint from Owen Smith, alleging that 
the Whittier Salary and Negotiations Subcommittee (the “Subcommittee”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Subcommittee 
on January 30.
1  You responded on behalf of the Subcommittee by letter dated February 16.  The 
complainant alleges that the Subcommittee failed to indicate on the notice of its January 30 
meeting that the Subcommittee would meet in open session prior to convening in executive 
session or that it would elect a new chair in open session.     
 
Following our review, we find that the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Subcommittee’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We 
also reviewed the notice of the January 30 meeting and minutes of the executive session and 
open session of the January 30 executive session. 
 
FACTS  
 
We find the facts as follows.  On January 24, the Subcommittee posted notice of a 
meeting to be held on January 30.   
 
The notice states: 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2024. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Salary/Negotiations Subcommittee will meet in Executive Session for 
Contract Negotiations on Tuesday, January 30, 2024 at 3:00 P.M. in the conference room 
in the Superintendent’s Office at the School. 
 
 Agenda 
 
1. Election of Chairperson 
2. To Conduct Contract Negotiations with Non-Union Personnel – Business 
Manager 
3. To Conduct Contract Negotiations with Non-Union Personnel – Director of Pupil 
Personnel 
4. To Conduct Contract Negotiations with Non-Union Personnel – Director of 
HR/Administrative Asst. to the Superintendent 
5. To Conduct Strategy Sessions in Preparation for Negotiations with Non-Union 
Personnel- Route Bus Drivers 
 
The notice of the January 30 meeting does not reference an open session or a vote to 
enter into executive session.  Minutes of the open session note that the first item to be discussed 
was election of a chairperson.  Richard Early was elected as chairperson in open session.  
Following the election, the Subcommittee voted by roll call to enter executive session to discuss 
Agenda items 2 through 5.  Minutes of the executive session reflect discussion about the route 
bus drivers.  Discussions regarding the contracts with the business manager, director of pupil 
personnel and HR Director / Administrative Assistant to the Superintendent were continued to a 
later date.  Thereafter, the executive session was adjourned. 
 
DISCUSSION  
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Notices must include “a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  Id.  The 
list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  Public bodies may enter a closed, executive 
session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law.  G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a).  Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announcement during open session prior to convening in executive session, in as much detail as 
possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.  See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); OML 2023-128; OML 2020-43; OML 2015-55.2  This is particularly 
important “because [it] is the only notification given to the public that the [public body will] 
conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for 
[convening in executive session] was proper or improper.”  District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. 
Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009).   
 
When the only business to be discussed during an open session is the procedural 
requirements for entering executive session, public bodies must list “open session” on the 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
===PAGE 3===
meeting notice, as this is the only means by which members of the public are informed that a
public body will, in fact, hold an open meeting that they are permitted to attend. See OMI 2020-
47; OMIL 2013-9; OMI 2012-68. Without such notice, members of the public are essentially
denied the opportunity to attend and learn the reasons for the executive session. See OML 2024-
26; OML 2013-195.
Here, the Subcommittee met in open session on January 30 not only to announce that it
would convene in executive session, but also to elect its chair. The notice, however, stated that
the Subcommittee would meet only in executive session. The Subcommittee should have posted
proper notice of this meeting, indicating that the body would convene in open session to vote to
enter executive session. Notice also should have indicated that election of the chair would occur
in open session. (As noted above, minutes reflect that the election did indeed occur during open
session.) As the Subcommittee failed to post notice that it would meet in open session to elect its
chair and to follow proper procedure to convene in executive session, it violated the Open
Meeting Law. See OML 2024-26; OML 2015-87.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting
Law by failing to post sufficiently specific notice of its January 30 meeting. We order the
Subcommittee's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law. We caution that
a future finding that the Subcommittee has violated the Open Meeting Law in any of the manners
addressed herein may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law and may result in a civil
penalty of up to $1,000 per violation.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. Please
feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Matt gon
Matthew Lindberg
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC.
Owen Smith (via email:
Kara Kosmes (via email:
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.