===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
October 31, 2016 
OML 2016-146 
Neil J. Hanington, Lown Manager 
Lown of Salisbury 
5 Beach Road 
Salisbury, MA 01952 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Harrington: 
This office received two related complaints from Patrick Higgins alleging that the 
Salisbury Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1 The first complaint was originally filed with the Board on June 16, and the Salisbury Lown 
Manager responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated June 21.2 Lhis complaint was then 
filed with our office on June 24. Lhe second complaint was filed with the Board on July 13, and 
the Board responded by letter dated July 22. Lhis second complaint was then filed with our 
office on September 8. In his complaints, Mr. Higgins alleges that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by: (i) posting an insufficiently detailed meeting notice; and (ii) failing to follow 
proper procedure in responding to an Open Meeting Law complaint. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the law as alleged in the 
complaints. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board's 
responses, and the requests for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice 
and minutes—both open and executive session—of a Board meeting held on May 23. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. In a letter to the complainant dated July 1, the Board 
stated that the first complaint was filed solely with the Town Clerk by e-mail, and a copy was not filed with the 
Board. Typically, we do not review complaints that are not filed with the public body accused of violating the law. 
See OML Declination 11-2-15 (Stoneham Board of Selectmen). However, the complainant provided our office with 
evidence showing that he sent the complaints to the Board by e-mail on June 16 and July 13. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On May 19, the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held 
on May 23. The notice was stamped with the date on which it was posted, but it did not indicate 
the time at which it was posted. The notice stated that the meeting location would be "Town 
Hall—Colchester Room," but it did not provide a street address. Among the other topics listed 
on the notice was "Executive Session." No further information was given about what would be 
discussed in this anticipated executive session. 
The Board held the May 23 meeting as planned. Before entering executive session, the 
Board members voted to enter executive session "for the purpose of discussing the Town's 
strategy with regard to pending litigation, as such a discussion in open session may be 
detrimental to the [TJown's strategy with respect to this matter[.]" Because the Board has not 
yet publicly released the minutes of this executive session, we do not recount their contents in 
detail. We note, however, that the Board discussed a pending litigation matter. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The May 23 Meeting Notice Was Not Sufficiently Detailed. 
Public bodies must post notice of every meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must 
be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of 
the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. 
Id. The listing of topics "shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2011-15.3 The date and 
time that the notice is posted must be conspicuously recorded on or with the notice itself. 940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a). One such purpose permits a public body to enter into executive session to 
"discuss strategy with respect to... litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the... litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) 
("Purpose 3"). When entering executive session pursuant to Puipose 3, a public body must 
identify the litigation matter that it intends to discuss, both in the written notice and verbal 
statement made before entering executive session, if doing so will not compromise the executive 
session purpose. See G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(b)(3); OML 2014-145; OML 2013-91. While we 
generally defer to a public body's assessment of whether the inclusion of such information would 
compromise the puipose for an executive session, a public body must be able to demonstrate a 
reasonable basis for that claim if challenged. See OML 2015-14. 
The first complaint alleges that the May 23 meeting notice is deficient in three principle 
respects—it provides insufficient detail regarding the anticipated executive session, it does not 
indicate the time at which it was posted, and it does not sufficiently describe the location of the 
meeting. First, we consider the description of the anticipated executive session. The May 23 
meeting notice simply listed "Executive Session," without any further information. At a 
minimum, the notice should have stated that the Board would convene in executive session to 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
discuss pending litigation. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). Absent this information, members of the 
public have no way of knowing, prior to the verbal statement made in open session, what topics 
the Board anticipates discussing behind closed doors. We find that this omission violated the 
Open Meeting Law. 
Furthermore, while the May 23 meeting notice was stamped to indicate that it was posted 
on May 19, the notice did not state the time at which it was posted on this date. A public body is 
required to record both the date and time of posting on all meeting notices. 940 CMR 
29.03(1 )(b). This requirement serves an important function by allowing members of the public 
to observe whether the body has complied with the Open Meeting Law by posting the notice at 
least 48 hours prior to the meeting. Accordingly, we find that the Board also violated the Open 
Meeting Law in this respect. 
Finally, the May 23 meeting notice listed the location of the meeting as "Town Hall— 
Colchester Room." We have stated in past determinations that a public body should provide the 
street address of the meeting location, where possible. See OML 2016-38. However, we have 
also concluded that where a complaint does not allege that any member of the public was 
actually mislead by the meeting notice at issue, any error that may exist is harmless. See OML 
2016-77. Here, the complaint does not allege that any member of the public was confused by the 
May 23 meeting notice. Furthermore, the Board's response stated that it will include the street 
address on future notices. Accordingly, we remind the Board of its obligations under the Open 
Meeting Law in this regard. 
II. The Board Failed to Follow Proper Procedure when Responding to an Open 
Meeting Law Complaint. 
When an individual files an Open Meeting Law complaint with a public body, the chair 
"shall disseminate copies of the complaint to the members of the public body," and "the public 
body shall review the complaint's allegations." 940 CMR 29.05(3), (5). The chair is required to 
disseminate copies and the public body must meet to review the complaint and formulate a 
response, or meet to delegate that authority to legal counsel or another individual. See OML 
2012-90. 
The second complaint alleges that the Board did not meet to discuss the first complaint 
prior to the Town Manager's response on June 21. Indeed, we find that the Board did not meet 
to review the first complaint prior to the Town Manager's response. This failure to follow 
proper procedure in responding to an Open Meeting Law complaint violated the law. See OML 
2015-94. However, because the Board met to review the second complaint prior to the July 22 
response, we are now satisfied that the Board now understands its obligations in this area. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution 
that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
Salisbury Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 