===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 8, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 76 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Alicia A. McNeil, Esq. 
City Solicitor, City of Malden 
 
legal@cityofmalden.org 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney McNeil: 
 
This office received a complaint from Jadeane Sica on January 8, 2026, alleging that the 
Malden City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Council on November 19, 2025, and you responded 
on behalf of the Council by letter dated December 16, 2025.
1  The complaint alleges that the 
Council deliberated outside of a posted meeting.       
 
Following our review, we find that the communications from Councillor Karen Colón 
Hayes to a quorum of the Council constituted an individual violation of the Open Meeting Law.  
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Council’s 
response, and the request for further review, with attachments.  We also reviewed the notices, 
minutes, and recordings of meetings that the Council held on November 18 and December 16.
2  
We reviewed minutes of a meeting the Council held on November 26, 2024.  Finally, we 
reviewed minutes of a meeting the Personnel / Appointments Committee held on December 16 
and minutes of a meeting the School Committee held on January 28, 2026. 
 
  
 
1 Hereinafter, all dates refer to the year 2025 unless stated otherwise. 
2 We accessed recordings of the November 18 and December 16 meetings at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t7rnOmvDaKo&list=PLH-
ccu2nqmdYDJUI06oEWXCEWT_TKn6UO&index=4 and 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nu4xH34by30&list=PLH-ccu2nqmdYDJUI06oEWXCEWT_TKn6UO, 
respectively. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Council is comprised of eleven members; six 
councillors constitute a quorum.  On September 17, James Holland, a member of the Northeast 
Metro Tech School Committee (the “Voke Committee”), passed away.  On November 13, the 
Council posted notice of a meeting to be held on November 18.  One of the topics to be 
discussed was the appointment of Jeffrey Donahue to succeed Mr. Holland on the Voke 
Committee.  Mr. Donahue was recommended as the successor by Malden Mayor Gary 
Christenson.  As to the appointment of Mr. Donahue, the notice of the November 18 meeting 
read: 
 
432-25  Joint Appointment of the City Council and School Committee: Jeffrey Allen 
Donahue, 56 Tremont Street, Malden, as the Malden Representative of the 
Northeast Metro Tech School Committee, to fulfill the term left vacant by the 
passing of James Holland, per the Regional School District’s Community 
Agreement. Said term to commence upon confirmation by both bodies of the 
Malden City Council and School Committee. 
 
Sponsors: Peg Crowe 
 
On the day before the November 18 meeting, Councillor Ryan O’Malley telephoned 
Councillor Karen Colón Hayes.  Councillor O’Malley asked Councillor Colón Hayes whether 
she had seen the notice of the next evening’s meeting.  He drew her attention to the appointment 
of Jeffrey Donahue to the Voke Committee.  Councillor Colón Hayes was “in shock,” as she 
later explained to the Council.  Councilor O’Malley asked whether the opening had been posted.  
Councillors O’Malley and Colón Hayes agreed that the topic should not have been put on the 
docket, as it was the province of the Council and the School Committee to fill the vacancy on the 
Voke Committee.  Councillor O’Malley indicated that former School Committee member Lenny 
Iovino had expressed interest in serving on the Voke Committee.
3  Councillor Colón Hayes 
stated that she would call the Council President to discuss procedure and ask why the 
appointment was on the docket.   
 
After ending her call with Councillor O’Malley, Councillor Colón Hayes contacted other 
members of the Council.  She discussed the procedure of the appointment with Council President 
Amanda Linehan.
4  She left a voice mail message with Councillor Peg Crowe: 
 
Hey Peg.  It’s Karen.  I’m calling because I just saw Jeff Donahue’s name on 
the agenda and I am not pleased at all so I’ve been making some phone calls.  
 
3 It is unclear from the record before us whether Councillors O’Malley and Colón Hayes discussed the possible 
appointment of Lenny Iovino during this phone call. 
4 The full scope of the discussion between Councillor Colón Hayes and Council President Amanda Linehan is 
unclear from the record before us.  In its response, the Council states that “the conversation was about the procedure 
of the appointment.”  The voice mail that Councillor Colón Hayes left with Councillor Peg Crowe suggests that she 
expressed her displeasure to Council President Linehan that the appointment of Jeff Donahue was a topic on the 
notice. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
I talked to [Council President Linehan].  I actually called Gary5 as well.  I 
have serious concerns about him being on the board of anything. . . . 
 
After detailing her concerns about Mr. Donahue, Councillor Colón Hayes continued in 
her voice mail: 
 
And I’m thinking of what you all did with Lisette when you pulled back 
somebody who was actually appointed for reasons that were not even as clear 
as the ones for Jeff.
 6 . . .  I’m hoping that this gets delayed or tabled or 
something until we find someone better who does not have a background like 
this. . . . 
 
Councillor Colón Hayes then sent a text message to Councillor Ari Taylor:  
 
Hi Ari- I’ve been making a lot of phone calls today because I just realized that 
Jeff donahue [sic] was on the agenda for tomorrow as an appointment to 
replace Holland for a position on the Voke. I strongly oppose this appointment 
for many reasons, but most recently he has verbally abused me in public. . . . 
Although I did not agree with what happened with Lissette’s appointment 
being taken away due to some social media post, I believe this one has more 
merit as he was verbally abusive to a city councillor in public very recently.   
 
The good news is, [Councillor] Ryan [O’Malley] spoke with Lenny Avino 
[sic], the former ward for school committee rep and he is very interested in the 
position. We have both called the Mayor and [Special Assistant to the Mayor] 
Maria Luise and we’re hoping that this can quietly be [tabled] while we 
review and put forward Lenny’s name. 
 
I hope you agree with this suggestion. I’m going to try and table it tomorrow 
if the mayor doesn’t take it off before then. Feel free to give me a call. I’m 
making the rounds[.] 
 
Councilor Colón Hayes also contacted Councillor Chris Simonelli, sharing her hope that 
Lenny Iovino would be interested in filling the vacancy.  Councillor Simonelli, who knew Mr. 
Iovino well, reached out to him.  Mr. Iovino told Councillor Simonelli he was not interested, 
information that Councillor Simonelli then relayed to Councillor Colón Hayes.  She expressed 
disappointment at the news but indicated in a text to Councillor Simonelli that “[w]e need a 
process anyway – we [c]annot just give someone a position!  It has to be posted[.]”  She 
forwarded to Councillor Simonelli old social media posts from Mr. Donahue and stated that 
“people are definitely speaking out against Jeff.”  Councilor Colón Hayes reached out to 
Councillors Paul Condon and Carey McDonald but did not speak with them. 
 
5 “Gary” presumably refers to Mayor Gary Christenson. 
6 In late 2024, the Personnel / Appointments Committee recommended Lissette Alvarado to fill an unexpired term 
on the Community Preservation Committee.  When the recommendation was sent to the City Council for 
appointment, Councillor Peg Crowe successfully moved to refer the position back to the Personnel /Appointments 
Committee to repost the position to seek additional candidates.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Also on November 17, Councillor Colón Hayes went for a hike with Councillor Stephen 
Winslow.  At the end of the hike, the agenda item of Jeff Donahue’s appointment was briefly 
discussed.  The discussion concerned calls that Councillor Winslow had received about the topic, 
and the role of the City Council in appointing the successor to Mr. Holland.   
 
The November 18 meeting went forward, as scheduled.  When the Council reached paper 
432-25, Assistant City Clerk Morgan Hunte read the Mayor’s letter of appointment into the 
record.  In his letter, Mayor Christenson recommended Mr. Donohue’s appointment to the Voke 
Committee, citing his experience in the trades and as a former School Committee member.  The 
Mayor asked that the Council move expeditiously with the appointment.  After the letter of 
appointment was read, Councillor Sica expressed concern about Councilor Colón Hayes’s 
communications with other councillors relative to the topic of the appointment.
7  Following 
discussion, and upon motion by Councillor Taylor, the Council voted to refer the appointment to 
the Personnel / Appointment Committee. 
 
The Personnel / Appointments Committee held a meeting on December 16.  School 
Committee Vice Chair Jen Spadafora attended the meeting and explained a process whereby the 
vacancy would be publicly posted and the Council and School Committee would jointly appoint 
their preferred candidate.  The Personnel / Appointments Committee was receptive to this 
procedure.  Interviews were conducted in January 2026, after which Sean Salazar was appointed 
to fill the vacancy.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when convened in executive session, “all 
meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A “meeting” is 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, 
however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling 
information or distribution of other procedural meeting [information] or the distribution of 
reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member 
is expressed.”  Id.  A one-way communication from one public body member to a quorum on 
matters within the body’s jurisdiction constitutes deliberation for purposes of the Open Meeting 
Law, even if no other public body member responds.  See OML 2026-21; OML 2021-178; OML 
2012-73.8  Moreover, the Open Meeting Law does not carve out an exception to the definition of 
“deliberation” for discussions that do not result in a decision or vote.  See OML 2021-178; OML 
2020-93.  
 
 
7 It is unclear from the record before us how the complainant learned of the communications. 
8 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
A public body may not engage in serial communication whereby a quorum communicates 
in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a particular subject matter within the 
public body's jurisdiction.  See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (finding that 
private serial communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to 
circumvent the intent of the law); see also OML 2024-223; OML 2020-160; OML 2012-84.4 
Relaying the same information through separate telephone calls or separate text messages to 
individual members of a public body does not insulate communication from the requirements of 
the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2024-157 (finding separate, serial communication of overlay 
district map violated Law when it reached a quorum); OML 2023-224 (finding planning board 
violated Law when member telephoned each of his fellow members separately to gauge interest 
in amendment of proposal to be discussed at next meeting); OML 2020-160 (finding board 
violated Law when chair communicated to a quorum of the board by separate telephone calls). 
 
Six councillors constitute a quorum of the Council.  The Council appears to acknowledge 
that four councillors discussed the agenda item concerning appointment of Jeff Donahue to the 
Voke Committee.  In her voice mail message to Councillor Crowe and in her text messages to 
Councillors Taylor and Simonelli, Councillor Colón Hayes communicated with her fellow 
councilors about matters within the Council’s jurisdiction, including by explicitly expressing her 
strong opinion on a matter to be discussed at the next meeting and expressing hope that they 
would support her position.  Thus, even without evidence that Councillors Crowe or Taylor 
responded to Councillor Colón Hayes, we find that the voice mail and texts constitute clear 
evidence of communication between four members on the same public business.   
 
We further find that Councilor Colón Hayes communicated with at least two other 
Councillors about the notice topic, thereby reaching a quorum.  The telephone call with 
Councillor O’Malley constituted communication about the agenda item.  Councillors O’Malley 
and Colón Hayes did not simply discuss whether the appointment would be a topic of discussion 
at the next day’s meeting.  They shared their concerns about the appointment process itself.  
Councillor O’Malley believed that the position should be posted, as did Councillor Colón Hayes.  
As the latter subsequently told Councillor Taylor in a text message, she and Councillor O’Malley 
were “
hoping that this can quietly be [tabled] while we review and put forward Lenny 
[Iovino]’s name.”  In light of the information before us, we find that Councillors Colón Hayes 
and O’Malley discussed the public business of the appointment which was scheduled to come 
before the Council the next day.  
 
Councillor Colón Hayes also discussed the agenda item with Councillor Winslow.  
During a hike the day before the November 18 meeting, Councillor Winslow told Councillor 
Colón Hayes about calls he had received regarding the agenda item.  Councillors Winslow and 
Colón Hayes also discussed the appointment procedure.  Based on the information before us, we 
understand that Councillor Winslow also asked about the legislation or ordinance that dictated 
the procedure.  This conversation concerned the same matter of public business that Councillor 
Colón Hayes had discussed with four other Councillors.   When she discussed the matter with 
Councillor Winslow, Councillor Colón Hayes’s individual communications reached a quorum of 
the Council and improper deliberation occurred.  As the complainant notes, Councillor Colón 
Hayes engaged in “hub and spoke” communications wherein she reached out to individual 
members separately, the cumulative effect being a violation of the Open Meeting Law once the 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
communications involved six Councillors (Councillors Colón Hayes, Crowe, Taylor, Simonelli, 
O’Malley and Winslow).9 
 
We note that Councillor Simonelli has maintained that when he spoke with Councillor 
Colón Hayes about the agenda item, he believed that she was speaking only with him about this 
topic.  Moreover, there is no evidence that any of the other Councillors who engaged with 
Councillor Colón Hayes knew that she was speaking with a quorum of the Council.  For these 
reasons, we find that the violation was an individual one, rather than a violation by the Council 
as a whole.  See OML 2022-91; OML 2015-96. 
 
We briefly address arguments made by Councillors O’Malley and Winslow that, for 
several reasons, their communications with Councillor Colón Hayes did not constitute 
deliberation.  First, it is immaterial that Councillors O’Malley and Winslow initiated the contact 
with Councillor Colón Hayes.  The definition of deliberation does not depend on who initiated 
contact; it simply requires communication “between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (emphasis added).  Second, the brevity 
of communication has no place in our analysis.  See, e.g., OML 2018-118 (Councillors who 
responded with “thumbs up” emoji or texted “I agree” in response to constituent’s text message 
to quorum of Council engaged in deliberation.).  Third, the discussions did not fall within the 
exception to the definition of deliberation for procedural meeting information.  See OML 2016-7 
(while communication for purpose of adding topic to meeting agenda is not deliberation, 
“discussing whether to include a topic in a meeting notice may lead to the type of discussion that 
the Open Meeting Law requires take place during a noticed meeting.”); OML 2013-163 (“While 
the discussion that occurred by phone and email was partially about whether to add Dr. 
Murphy’s proposal to the agenda, which may be considered administrative in nature, a quorum 
of the Committee discussed the merits of the proposal before reaching that conclusion,” thereby 
engaging in improper deliberation outside of a properly posted meeting.).  
 
As the Council acknowledged during its open meetings, Councillors previously have 
engaged in improper deliberation in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See, e.g., OML 2021-
179.  The Council is cautioned that the Open Meeting Law’s definition of “deliberation” is very 
broad, and therefore public body members should use telephone calls, emails or text messaging 
to communicate among a quorum only for the limited purposes that are excluded from the Law’s 
definition of “deliberation,” such as distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information, or 
distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion 
of a member is expressed.  See OML 2021-61.  Strict adherence to the rule against deliberations 
outside a meeting may make the meeting itself less efficient, as some fact-finding may need to 
occur in open session.  However, a public body may not put efficiency over the requirements of 
the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2026-25 (“We recognize that the process of revising the letter 
 
9 The Council maintains that communication between Councillor Colón Hayes and Council President Linehan was 
about the procedure of the appointment.  Because we find that Councillor Colón Hayes’ communications reached a 
quorum without taking into account her communication with Council President Linehan, we did not investigate the 
substance of that communication.  We caution the Council, however, that discussion of a public body’s operation is 
a matter within its jurisdiction and such discussions must therefore be reserved for a posted meeting.  See OML 
2022-161; OML 2021-130; OML 2017-91.  Additionally, because we find that Councillor Colón Hayes’ 
communications reached a quorum without taking into account Councillor Colón Hayes’s attempts to reach 
Councillors Condon and McDonald, we did not investigate the content of any voice mail messages left with them. 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
during a posted meeting might have been cumbersome and time consuming. It was, however, 
what the law required.”) 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find an individual violation of the Open Meeting Law 
when Councillor Colón Hayes deliberated with other Councillors, reaching a quorum of the 
Council.  We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we 
caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We also order the release within forty-five (45) days of the date of this letter of any 
written communication, including emails and text messages, exchanged by Councillors about 
filling the Voke Committee vacancy left by the passing of Mr. Holland.  We also order that the 
Council certify to our office that it has released the communications as ordered.  See 940 C.M.R. 
29.07(4).10  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,  
  
Matthew
 Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Jadeane Sica  
 Malden City Clerk (via email: cdesiderio@cityofmalden.org) 
 Amanda Linehan (via email: alinehan@cityofmalden.org)  
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
10 The Council may publicly release the communications by playing or reading their content during a meeting and 
listing the communications in the meeting minutes, or by referencing the communications during a meeting and 
posting the communications along with the minutes on the municipal website. 
