===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 14, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 224 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Joseph W. Proctor, Esq. 
Murphy Hesse Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
50 Braintree Hill Office Park, Suite 410 
Braintree, MA 02184 
 
jproctor@mhtl.com 
 
 RE: Op
 en Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Proctor: 
 
This office received a complaint from Victoria Collins on November 16, 2023, alleging 
that the Holbrook Planning Board (the “Board”), and specifically Board member Christopher 
Golden, violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally 
filed with the Board on or about October 10, 2023, and you responded on behalf of the Board by 
letter dated October 24, 2023.  The complaint alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a 
posted meeting on or about July 10 in violation of the Open Meeting Law.
1  The complaint also 
alleges personal bias and ethical violations on the part of Mr. Golden.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when 
members deliberated on or about July 10 outside of a posted meeting.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, and the 
request for further review.  We decline to review the allegations of personal bias and ethics 
violations, as those claims fall outside of the Open Meeting Law.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2023. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows.  The Board is a five-member body; therefore, three 
members constitute a quorum.  By application to the Board, Gioioso Brothers, Inc. (“Gioioso 
Bros.”) sought approval of a definitive subdivision plan for 85-86 Sherrick Avenue (“the Plan”).  
The Plan, which was the subject of prior litigation in the Land Court, was noticed as a topic for 
discussion at the Board’s July 11 meeting.  By telephone call on or before July 6, Board Chair 
Christopher Golden proposed to Marco Gioioso, of Gioioso Bros., a reduction in the number of 
house lots from seven to five.  Mr. Gioioso responded by email to Mr. Golden on July 6.  Calling 
the request “huge,” Mr. Gioioso countered with ten conditions that might make the reduction of 
lots acceptable.  He concluded his July 6 email by asking that Mr. Golden “take a poll of the 
members to determine whether they would support this proposal.”  If a majority of Board 
members supported the modified five lot proposal, he would introduce it at the July 11 meeting.  
Mr. Golden responded by email: “I’ll forward this to the rest of the board and hopefully we can 
put this to rest and we can all move forward.”  That same day, July 6, Mr. Golden prepared an 
email, which he directed Principal Clerk Debi Joyce to forward to the other four members of the 
Board together with his exchange with Mr. Gioioso: 
 
Hey everyone, I proposed making this subdivision 5 lots instead of 7 to Marco and 
he agreed with a few contingencies. I'm trying to get a feel for what everyone thinks 
before the meeting or he’s not going to propose it at the meeting if we don ’t agree 
with the new plan and exemptions. Let me know asap, Thx, CG 
 
 On July 10, Mr. Golden reported back by email to Mr. Gioioso that he had received 
responses from two of the three other voting Board members.  (Board member Eric Helfer had 
recused himself from deliberations about the Plan because he was an abutter; another member 
was out of town.)  Mr. Golden advised Mr. Gioioso that the members had a “couple of different 
points” that likely required further discussion.  He then outlined some specific concerns 
regarding the Plan.  The Board discussed the Plan at its July 11 meeting.    
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when convened in executive session, “all 
meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A “meeting” is 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; . . . .”  Id.  
  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
I. The complaint was timely filed. 
 
A complaint alleging a violation of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public 
body within 30 days of the alleged violation.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b).  If the violation could not 
reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed within 30 
days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered.  940 CMR 29.05(4).  The 
complainant became aware of the email exchange that is the basis for this complaint upon receipt 
of a response to her public records request on October 2.  As the complaint was filed on October 
10, it was timely. 
 
II. The chair’s polling of other Board members violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Polling public body members outside of a public meeting is prohibited.  See OML 2023-
176; OML 2020-160; OML 2016-52.  Moreover, a public body may not deliberate in a serial 
fashion whereby a quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a 
meeting on a matter within the public body’s jurisdiction.  See OML 2023-176; OML 2015-3; 
McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that private serial communications 
violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to circumvent the intent of the 
law).  Through his email to other Board members and ensuing separate telephone calls, Mr. 
Golden engaged in prohibited serial communication, in violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
The Bo
ard makes several arguments in its own defense, none of which is availing.  First, 
the Board highlights the urgency of the “strict timelines” imposed by the Land Court, including 
the deadline to conclude the public hearing on the Plan by July 27.  According to the Board, the 
proposal to reduce the number of lots resurfaced as the Board and Gioioso Bros. “reckoned with” 
the deadlines and a change in leadership at Gioioso Bros.  The Open Meeting Law does not yield 
to a public body’s time constraints.
2  Where, for example, a planning board had only hours to file 
an appeal with the Zoning Board of Appeals, we found that a telephonic poll of members 
violated the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2016-49.  Likewise, the impending deadline which 
the Board faced here does not excuse its violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Sec
ond, the Board maintains that Mr. Golden’s email was sent not as a poll of members, 
but merely to make members “aware of the proposal and Mr. Gioioso’s requests.”  The argument 
is disingenuous.  In its response, the Board omits the critical last few words of the July 6 email, 
which clearly elicit the members’ position: “Let me know asap, Thx, CG.”  The emails (when 
read in their entirety) speak for themselves: Mr. Golden sought the other members’ position on 
the proposed compromise that he was negotiating with Gioioso Bros. prior to the July 11 
meeting.  In so doing, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
  
 
2 The Open Meeting Law allows a public body to post notice of a meeting less than 48 hours in advance in situations 
that qualify as an emergency, as defined by the Open Meeting Law.   See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  We need not address 
whether the situation presented would have constituted an emergency, where the Board did not post notice of and 
open its communications to the public in any event. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
Third, the Board argues that there can be no violation where the July 6 email was  sent by 
Ms. Joyce, who is not a member of the Board.  However, the Board may not evade the 
constraints of the Open Meeting Law by enlisting Ms. Joyce as a conduit.  A public body may 
not use a non-member, such as a staff member, to communicate on matters that the Board would 
otherwise save for discussion at an open meeting.  See OML 2016-49. 
 
Fourth, the Board argues that the email does not constitute deliberation because it does 
not express an opinion.  “Deliberation” is broadly defined to include any communication 
between or among a quorum regarding business within the Board’s jurisdiction, with limited 
exceptions, even if no opinion is expressed and no action is taken.  See OML 2023-139; OML 
2020-18; OML 2019-151.  Thus, the email from Mr. Golden and the ensuing telephone calls with 
members constituted deliberations in violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
We note that this is the second compl
 aint to reach our office relative to Mr. Golden’s 
polling of Board members on July 6.  See OML 2023-214.  In response to the first complaint, the 
Board “strongly commit[ed] itself to never conduct an improper poll of a quorum of its members 
on matters within its jurisdiction.”  The Board’s response to the instant complaint suggests that it 
misunderstands much of the Open Meeting Law surrounding deliberations outside of a public 
meeting.  The Board is urged to familiarize itself with the Open Meeting Law so that it can 
uphold the commitment it has made.  
 
III. Claims alleging per
 sonal bias and ethical violations fall outside the Open Meeting 
Law. 
 
The Division of Open Government’s rev
 iew concerns compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  See OML Declination 8-14-2018 (Wales Planning Board).  The 
allegations of personal bias and ethical violations, even if true, would not constitute violations of 
the Open Meeting Law and we therefore decline to review those complaints.  See OML 
Declination 11-3-2023 (Massachusetts Board of Elementary and Secondary Education) (Division 
of Open Government does not review allegations of conflicts of interest); OML 2020-36 
(allegation of unprofessional conduct does not implicate Open Meeting Law).  We decline to 
review those allegations that, even if true, would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting 
Law.  We offer no opinion on whether any actions taken by the Board could be a violation of any 
other law, regulation or local by-law.  See OML Declination 7-14-2023 (Belmont Planning 
Board). 
 
  
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a posted meeting.  We order the Board’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law’s requirements and caution that future similar violations 
may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,  
 
   
Matthe
w Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Holbrook Planning Board , via Principal Clerk Debi Joyce (via email: 
DJoyce@holbrookmassachusetts.us) 
 Holbrook T own Clerk (via email: town clerk@holbrookmassachusetts.us)  
Victoria Collins (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
