===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 4, 2015 
OML 2015-167 
Tim D. Norris, Esq. 
Collins, Loughran & Peloquin 
320 Norwood Park South 
Norwood, MA 01062 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Norris: 
This office received a complaint from Meme Luttrell on July 23, 2015, alleging that 
the Southborough Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about May 4, and 
you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated May 21,2015.' In her complaint, 
Ms. Luttrell alleges that, based on Selectman John Rooney's comment at a Zoning Board 
of Appeals (ZBA) meeting on April 29, 2015, it appeared that a quorum of the Board had 
deliberated outside of a meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a meeting. In reaching our determination, we reviewed the initial 
complaint, the Board's response, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review. In addition, we reviewed the notices and open and executive session minutes of 
the Board's meetings held on December 16, 2014 and February 3, 2015, as well as the 
open session minutes from the ZBA meeting held on April 29, 2015, and the ZBA decision 
on the application at issue, dated June 8, 2015. Finally, in September 2015, we spoke 
individually by telephone with three Selectmen: John Rooney, Bill Boland, and Daniel 
Kolenda. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum. In 2014, the owner of an historic property in Southborough 
1 For the purpose of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Ct 
===PAGE 2===
commenced discussions with the Board about opening a bed and breakfast on the property. 
Part of this discussion included negotiations with the Board about obtaining a preservation 
restriction on the property in exchange for Conservation Preservation Act funds to assist in 
restoring the property. Concurrently, the property owner submitted an application to the 
ZBA to obtain a use variance. The Board met in executive session on December 16, 2014 
and February 3, 2015, pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6), to discuss the status of 
negotiations with the property owner. Mr. Rooney, Mr. Kolenda, and Mr. Boland contend 
that, at some point during these executive session discussions, the Board members 
expressed their support for the variance, although this discussion is not reflected in the 
minutes. 
On April 29, 2015, the ZBA held a hearing on the variance application. Hours 
before this meeting, Mr. Rooney called Mr. Boland to confirm that he was comfortable 
with Mr. Rooney attending the ZBA meeting for the purpose of speaking on the Board's 
behalf in support of the variance. That same day, Mr. Rooney asked Mr. Kolenda the same 
question.3 Mr. Rooney then spoke in support of the variance during the hearing. 
According to the ZBA minutes, "[m] embers of the Board of Selectmen supported the 
proposal." Although Mr. Rooney recalls being the only Board member present, the ZBA 
decision indicates that Selectwoman Bonnie Phaneuf also spoke in support of the variance. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly 
noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy 
surrounding deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. 
School Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A "meeting" is defined, in 
relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or 
written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among 
a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction^]" Id, 
Ms. Luttrell alleges that, based on Mr. Rooney's comments during the April 29, 
2015 ZBA meeting, a quorum of the Board must have deliberated about the variance 
application outside of a meeting. Ms. Luttrell alleges that, in voicing his support for the 
variance, Mr. Rooney explained to the ZBA that he had spoken with Mr. Boland and Mr. 
Kolenda, who had also expressed their support for the zoning use variance. Mr. Rooney 
asked his fellow Board members outside of a meeting about whether they would support 
him speaking on the Board's behalf to the ZBA about the variance application. Although 
2 Neither the notice nor the minutes identify the name and location of the property to be discussed in 
executive session. Because it appears that identifying the property to the public would not be detrimental to 
the Board's negotiating position, we remind the Board that this level of detail should have been included, 
both on the meeting notice and in the announcement prior to convening in executive session. See OML 
2015-140; OML 2014-136. 
3 There is a disagreement about whether this conversation occurred by telephone or during the ZBA meeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
the Board does not have direct authority over the variance application, as the Town's chief 
executive officer with the authority to negotiate terms of a related preservation restriction 
for the property, the Board's discussions and public endorsement of the application 
demonstrate the Board's role in the process.4 See OML 2014-63. Additionally, the fact 
that the Board discussed the variance during an executive session further suggests that it 
was a matter of public business with its jurisdiction. Because the discussion about the 
Board's endorsement of the requested variance reached a quorum of the Board outside of a 
meeting, it constituted an improper deliberation. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; see also District 
Attornev for the Northern District v. School Committee of Wavland. 451 Mass. 561, 570-
571 (2009) ("Governmental bodies may not circumvent the requirements of the open 
meeting law by conducting deliberations via private messages, whether electronically, in 
person, over the telephone, or in any other form."). Accordingly, we find that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law. 
Although not raised in the complaint, we also note our concerns about the Board's 
executive session discussions concerning the proposed preservation restriction. A public 
body may enter into executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. c. BOA, 
§ 21(a). One such purpose allows a public body to enter into executive session to 
"consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that 
an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public 
body." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) ("Purpose 6"). Here, the Board convened in executive 
session on December 16, 2014 and February 3, 2015 under Puipose 6 to discuss the status 
of ongoing negotiations with the property owner about a proposed preservation restriction. 
This is not the type of discussion that falls within Purpose 6, as it does not appear to 
concern the "purchase, exchange, lease or value" of the property. See OML 2012-180; 
OML 2013-156. The Board's December 16, 2014 executive session minutes have already 
been released to the public. We recommend that the Board also release to the public the 
February 3, 2015 executive session minutes, if it has not already done so. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by deliberating outside of a meeting. We order immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law and caution that future similar violations may be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the Law. Additionally, we order the Board to review the 
Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Training Video #1 (Introduction and Open Meeting 
Law Definitions) and certify to our office within thirty (30) days of this letter, using the 
attached form, that it has complied with this order.5 
4 We note that the Board's support of the variance, while influential, did not appear to be the deciding factor 
in the ZBA's decision to grant the variance. 
5 The videos may be found at the Attorney General's website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions. 
Sincerely, 
cc: Meme Luttrell 
Southborough Board of Selectmen 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 