===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONEASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
February 1, 2017 
OML 2017-21 
Andover Board of Selectmen 
do Andrew Flanagan 
Andover Town Manager 
36 Bartlet Street 
Andover, MA 01810 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Mr. Flanagan: 
This office received two complaints from Jose Albuquerque on August 31 and 
September 30, alleging that the Andover Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 18-25.1 The complaints were originally filed with the 
Board on or about July 22 and August 30, and you responded on behalf of the Board in a 
letters dated August 10 and September 13. In his August 31 complaint, Mr. Albuquerque 
alleges that on June 23, the Town's consultant sent an email to residents which indicated to 
him that the Town had been spending funds inappropriately for the post-closure project at 
the Ledge Road Landfill. Implicit in his complaint is an allegation that, because there was 
no public discussion or involvement, the Board must have deliberated about the project 
outside of a noticed meeting. In his September 30 complaint, Mr. Albuquerque alleges that 
the Board failed to include sufficient detail in its July 11 meeting minutes. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review. We reviewed the notice, minutes and video-recording of the Board's July 11 
meeting, as well as the minutes of the Board's meetings held on May 3; May 23; June 13; 
and June 22? Finally, we spoke by telephone with the Town Manager on October 26; the 
Town Clerk on January 5, 2017; and Board Chair Paul Salafia on January 24, 2017.3 
1 Unless otherwise noted, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 Available at http://andovertv.org/selectmen_meetings 
3 We made several unsuccessful attempts to obtain additional information from the Town Manager's office. 
We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that, "[u]pon notification of an investigation, any 
person, public body or any other... official or entity who is the subject of an investigation, shall make all 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. During a Town Meeting on May 2, the Town voted 
on expenditures for the capping and closing of the Ledge Road Landfill. The Board 
received an update about the project during its June 22 meeting. On June 23, the Town's 
environmental consultant sent an email to residents about the status of the project. To date, 
this consultant, along with Department of Public Works and the Town Manager, have 
managed the project. According to the Town Clerk and Chair Salafia, the Board did not 
discuss the project outside of a meeting. 
A resident did bring the project up during the Board's July 11 meeting, however. 
During the Citizen's Petition period, the resident made three requests to the Board and a 
point of information about finance decisions involving the site. The Board did not respond 
to the resident's comments. The minutes, approved on August 11, summarize the 
resident's comments in one sentence as follows: "[The resident] spoke about the Ledge 
Road Landfill and WA's 31 and 25 authorizing bonding and transfer of funds from the 
Stabilization fund for the closure of the landfill, and the state's decision to forego the 
loan." The resident's concern was about the Town foregoing "the state revolving fund 
loan," rather than the State foregoing said loan, as described in the minutes. The Board 
corrected this error by voting to amend the minutes on September 12. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, 
the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken 
at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
The complainant alleges that the July 11 meeting minutes do not accurately reflect 
the resident's comments to the Board concerning the Ledge Road Landfill. When 
reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial 
compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2013-64.4 By substantial 
compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a 
member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106. We find that the Board 
substantially complied with the requirement to provide an accurate and sufficiently 
detailed summary of the resident's statements about the Ledge Road Landfill. See OML 
2016-40. Although the minutes do not cover his every remark, they do offer a concise 
information necessary to conduct such investigation available to the attorney general." G.L. c. 30A, § 24(a); 
see also 940 CMR 29.06(2) ("Upon notice of the investigation, the subject of the investigation shall provide 
the Attorney General with all information relevant to the investigation.") 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
ww w. mass. gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
summary of his statements. See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55 (while minutes must 
include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the 
minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented). Furthermore, in 
response to this complaint, the Board corrected the minutes to more accurately describe the 
resident's statement on the state's revolving fund loan. We commend the Board for its 
remedial efforts. Accordingly, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
Additionally, we find no evidence that the Board deliberated about the landfill 
project outside of a meeting between the May 2 Town Meeting and the environmental 
consultant's June 23 email to residents. A "deliberation" is defined in relevant part as "an 
oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction^]" G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. Because a quorum of the Board did not discuss the matter outside of a meeting 
during this timeframe, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this regard. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We now consider 
the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does 
not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please 
feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this 
letter. 
Sincerely, 
ifrtA 
H'anne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Jose Alburquerque 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. e. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of 
receipt of a final order. 
3 