===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 T EL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 6, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 125  
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Joseph A. Emerson, Jr. 
Emerson & Emerson 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Emerson: 
This office received a complaint on March 31, 2020, from Gerard Mackin alleging that 
the Weymouth School Committee (the “Committee”) and the Committee’s chair Lisa Belmarsh 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with 
the Committee on February 28, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated 
March 18, 2020.
1 The complaint alleges that the topic “Approval to transfer funds from 
Weymouth High School (031) to District Wide Exp (200) for legal settlement purposes regarding 
Settlement of WEA Arbitration (Action Requested)” included on the notice for the Committee’s 
February 27 meeting was insufficiently detailed.  
 
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
and find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response, the 
request for further review, the meeting notice for the Committee’s February 27 meeting, and a 
video recording of the Committee’s February 27 meeting.2 We also communicated with the 
Complainant by email and with counsel for the Committee3 and Chair Belmarsh by email and 
phone.   
 
The Open Meeting Law states, in relevant part, that meeting notices “shall contain . . . a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 
 
1 All dates in this determination are in 2020, unless otherwise stated.  
2 Recordings of the Committee’s meetings may be found at https://weymouth.tv/.  
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person throughout. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
30A, § 20(b). These topics must be listed with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the 
public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. 
See OML 2019-70.
4 A public body need not list each and every detail about a topic in order to 
comply with the law’s requirements. See OML 2019-134. 
 
The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on February 27. Included on the 
notice was the topic “Approval to transfer funds from Weymouth High School (031) to District 
Wide Exp (200) for legal settlement purposes regarding Settlement of WEA Arbitration (Action 
Requested).” During the Committee’s February 27 meeting, Committee member John Sullivan 
provided a brief background of the arbitration and settlement as well as an explanation of where 
the funds for the settlement would come from. Committee member Rebecca Sherlock-Shangraw 
moved to transfer $110,000 from the Weymouth High School account 031 to the district-wide 
expenditure account 200 for purposes of arbitration settlement. The Committee voted to approve 
the transfer of funds.  
 
Although Mr. Mackin alleges that the Committee’s February 27 meeting notice was 
insufficiently detail with respect to the topic of transferring funds for settlement purposes, he 
does not identify any specific deficiencies with respect to this notice topic. Rather, Mr. Mackin 
includes an email he sent to Chair Belmarsh stating that he found the agenda item to be “too 
vague to comply with the Open meeting law” and listing a series of questions and comments he 
had regarding the arbitration and settlement. To the extent that Mr. Mackin suggests that the 
notice topic should have included answers to his list of questions, this level of detail is not 
required by the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2019-67. We find that the notice here was 
sufficient to inform the public of the discussion held and vote taken, and that, therefore, the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
Sincerely, 
 
        
 
       E l i z a b e t h  C a r n e s  F l y n n  
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Gerard F. Mackin, Jr. (via e-mail: ) 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 