===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
OFFICE OF THE ATToRnEY GENERAL
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108
MAURA HEALEY
ATTORNEY GENERAL
(617) 727-2200
www.mass.gov/ago
August 2, 2017
OML 2017 - 123
Gerard F. Dolan, Assistant General Counsel
Massachusetts Board of Registration in Medicine
200 Harvard Mill Square, Suite 330
Wakefield, MA 01880
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Dolan:
This office received a letter from Attorney Eve Slattery, dated June 29, 2017,
requesting reconsideration of our May 22, 2017 decision declining to review her Open
Meeting Law complaint filed with the Board of Registration in Medicine (the "Board"). This
complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 28, 2017, and you responded on
behalf of the Board by letter dated March 17, 2017. Attorney Slattery then sought review by
our office on May 1, 2017. In her original complaint, Attorney Slattery alleged that the
Board had deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. In our May 22, 2017 letter, we
concluded that the complaint had not been timely filed with the Board and declined to review
There is no statutory right to reconsideration by the Office of the Attorney General of
an Open Meeting Law determination or declination. While the Division of Open
Government generally will not reconsider past determinations or declinations, the Division
will grant reconsideration where the request identifies a clerical or mechanical error in the
determination or declination or a significant legal or factual issue that the Division may have
overlooked or misapprehended in reviewing the complaint. Because Attorney Slattery's June
29, 2017 letter identifies grounds which would render the complaint timely filed, we granted
reconsideration of the complaint.
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response,
and the request for further review filed with our office. Additionally, we spoke with the
===PAGE 2===
complainant by telephone on May 16, 2017, and we spoke with the Board's legal counsel on
May 9 and 17, 2017.'
FACTS
The Board's December 8, 2016 Meeting
The complainant represents a physician whose application for licensure was being
considered by the Board. The complainant appeared, along with the applicant, during a
Board meeting held on December 8, 2016. During this meeting, the Board convened in
executive session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1), to discuss complaints or charges
related to the applicant. The applicant and his counsel were permitted to attend the executive
session. The Board chair stated that the meeting would resume in open session following the
executive session. During the executive session, the applicant physician addressed the Board
regarding his qualifications for licensure. It is unclear from the record how extensively the
Board questioned the physician during the executive session.? The Board was also in
possession of a packet of supplementary information. The Board reconvened in open session
and voted to deny the physician's application. Despite the Board chair's statement about
reconvening in open session, neither the complainant nor the applicant was present when this
vote was taken.
The Board's February 2, 2017 Letter
On February 2, 2017, the complainant received a letter from the Board stating that the
Board had voted to preliminarily deny her client's application. An "Order of Preliminary
Denial" accompanied this letter, which provides the grounds for denial. These grounds
included a below-average rating in technical skills, the applicant's dismissal from a previous
position, and several ethical issues including plagiarism and an untruthful answer on his
Massachusetts license application. The letter was signed by the Board chair.
DISCUSSION
The complaint alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a noticed meeting.
Specifically, the complaint alleges that the February 2, 2017 letter does not match the
substance of the conversations that took place during the December 8, 2016 meeting and
therefore the Board must have deliberated at some point between December and February to
discuss the contents of the February letter. We note that the vote to deny the application took
place during the December 8, 2016 meeting, and the preliminary order attached to the
February 2, 2017 letter is dated December 8, 2016. The Board's legal counsel stated to our
office that the Board quickly decided to deny the application based on the contents of the
application and accompanying packet of supplementary documentation. We credit this
' For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.
2 While not raised in the complaint, we take this opportunity to remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law
requires the minutes of all meeting, including executive sessions, to include sufficient detail for members of the
public who were not present to read the minutes and understand the discussions that took place. 940 CMR
29.03(1)(b).
3 To the extent that the complaint alleges that the Board should have asked the applicant more extensive
questions about these concerns, we note that the Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to discuss
any topic. See OML 2014-98.
2
===PAGE 3===
statement. Further, the Board's response denies any deliberation between the December
meeting and the February letter. Absent evidence to the contrary, we credit the public body's
version of events. See OML 2017-114; OML 2016-141.4 As such, we find that the Board
did not violate the Open Meeting Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violated the Open
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending
with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if
you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Kevin W. Manganaro
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Eve Slattery, Esq., Collora LLP
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. C. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, 8
23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt
of a final order.
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website:
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3
===PAGE 4===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108
MAURA HEALEY
ATTORNEY GENERAL
(617) 727-2200
www.mass.gov/ago
August 2, 2017
Eve Slattery, Esq.
RE: Request for Reconsideration
Dear Attorney Slattery:
Our office received your letter, dated June 29, 2017, in which you request
reconsideration of our May 22, 2017 decision declining to review your Open Meeting Law
complaint filed with the Board of Registration in Medicine (the "Board"). Your original
complaint was filed with the Board on February 28, 2017. In our May 22, 2017 letter, we
concluded that the complaint had not been timely filed with the Board. In your letter, you
ask our office to reconsider this decision on the basis that the complaint alleged deliberation
that could have occurred outside of a meeting, and therefore was not reasonably discoverable
within 30 days of the alleged violation.
There is no statutory right to reconsideration by the Office of the Attorney General of
an Open Meeting Law determination or declination. While the Division of Open
Government generally will not reconsider past determinations or declinations, the Division
will grant reconsideration where the request identifies a clerical or mechanical error in the
determination or declination or a significant legal or factual issue that the Division may have
overlooked or misapprehended in reviewing the complaint. Because you identify grounds
that would render your complaint timely filed, we grant reconsideration of your complaint.
Please see the enclosed letter which details our determination that the Board did not violate
the Open Meeting Law.
Sincerely,
55h.
Jonathan Sclarsic
Assistant Attorney General
Director, Division of Open Government
===PAGE 5===
cc:
Gerard F. Dolan, Assistant General Counsel, Massachusetts Board of Registration in
Medicine
===PAGE 6===
THe CoMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
OFFICE OF THE ATToRnEy GENERAL
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE
BOsTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108
MAURA HEALEY
ATTORNEY GENERAL
(617) 727-2200
www.mass.gov/ago
May 22, 2017
Eve M. Slattery, Esq.
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Slattery:
This office received your complaint, dated May 1, 2017, alleging that the Massachusetts
Board of Registration in Medicine (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A,
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 28, 2017, and the
Board responded by letter dated March 20, 2017. In your complaint, you allege that the Board
deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. For the reasons stated below, we decline to review this
complaint.
Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public
body within 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged violation could
not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed within
30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered. 940 CMR 29.05(3). When an
alleged violation occurs during an open meeting, the alleged violation is reasonably discoverable
at the time it occurs. See OML 2014-85; OML 2012-52.
You represent a physician whose application for licensure was being considered by the
Board. The physician appeared before the Board, along with you, during a meeting held on
December 8, 2016. During this meeting, the Board convened in executive session pursuant to
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) to discuss complaints or charges related to the applicant. The Board
chair stated that the meeting would resume in open session following the executive session
discussion. The physician and you were both present in the executive session, during which the
physician made a statement in support of his application. Following the executive session, when
the physician and you had left, the Board reconvened in open session and voted to deny the
application. You received a copy of the Board's order denying the application by mail on
February 2, 2017. The complaint alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a noticed meeting
' Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website:
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
===PAGE 7===
in deciding to deny the application and alleges that you only became aware of the denial when
the order was received on February 2, 2017. The chair stated that the meeting would resume in
open session following the executive session, and it was therefore foreseeable that the Board
could conduct further business at that time. Because the vote to deny the application occurred in
open session on December 8, 2016, any complaint relating to the propriety of that vote should
have occurred within 30 days from that date. The complaint was filed with the Board more than
80 days after the meeting occurred, and we find that the complaint is therefore untimely and we
decline to review it. See OML Declination 11-21-2016 (Middleton Planning Board).
For the reasons stated above, we decline to review the complaint. We now consider this
matter closed. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any
questions.
Sincerely,
Kevin W. Manganaro
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Gerard F. Dolan, Assistant General Counsel, Massachusetts Board of Registration in
Medicine
2