===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 12, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 225 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Brendan L. Hughes, Esq.  
Sullivan, Hayes, & Quinn, LLC  
Brendan.Hughes@sullivanandhayes.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Hughes: 
 
This office received a complaint from Kevin Taugher on June 8, 2022,
1 alleging that the 
South Hadley Prudential Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on March 31, and Terie 
Fleury, Treasurer for the Committee, responded on behalf of the Committee by email on April 
14. The complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it posted 
notice for an emergency meeting less than 48 hours prior to the meeting without having an 
emergency to justify the late posting.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Committee’s response, the request for further review, and the notice for the Committee’s March 
31 meeting.   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, “[e]xcept in an emergency, in addition to any 
notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 
hours prior to the meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. In an emergency, a 
public body shall post notice as soon as reasonably possible prior to the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). An “emergency” is defined as “a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set of 
circumstances demanding immediate action.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The burden of justifying the 
need for an emergency meeting lies with the public body. See OML 2012-7; OML 2010-6.
2  
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise noted. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it posted 
notice on March 31 for a meeting to be held at 4:30 p.m. that same day. The notice included one 
substantive topic: “Discuss and vote on Fire District No. 1 warrant for District Election to be 
held on April 12, 2022.” The complaint asserts that the meeting did not qualify as an emergency; 
the Committee asserts that an emergency existed that justified posting notice less than 48 hours 
prior to the March 31 meeting. Specifically, the Committee explains that the South Hadley Fire 
District is required to hold its annual election at the same date, time, and location as the Town’s 
annual election and that at a March 1 meeting of the South Hadley Selectboard (the “Board”), the 
Board discussed changing the voting hours of the Town’s April 12 election. The Committee 
further explains that on March 22 the Board voted not to change the voting hours of the election, 
and that the Committee did not learn of this until March 31. Finally, the Committee explains that 
it needed to meet as soon as possible after learning that the voting hours would not change 
because town bylaws required it to perform certain actions by noon on the Monday preceding the 
election, which would be the following Monday, April 4.    
 
We find that there was no emergency that justified posting notice for the March 31 
meeting less than 48 hours in advance of the meeting. That the election would be held on April 
12, that the Committee would need to vote on the election warrant, and that certain deadlines 
would need to be met prior to the election were all known well in advance of the March 31 
meeting. There is no suggestion that the Board’s final decision regarding the specific voting 
hours impacted these requirements. Therefore, there was no sudden nor unexpected occurrence 
or set of circumstances. See OML 2011-45 (“Where a public body has advance notice of 
circumstances that are likely to require deliberation, it is not an emergency. Emergency meetings 
are reserved for circumstances that are unanticipated and require an immediate response to, for 
example, protect public safety or health”); OML 2012-7. We find that the Committee violated 
the Open Meeting Law by failing to post notice of its March 31 meeting 48 hours in advance of 
the meeting. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, and caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate 
the Law. Because the election has already occurred, we do not order any further remedial action.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
cc: Bruce Perron, Chair, South Hadley Prudential Committee (via e-mail: 
bperron@shdistrict1.org) 
Kevin Taugher (via email )  
South Hadley Town Clerk (via email: chamlin@southhadleyma.gov) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
