===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
wvw.mass.gov/ago 
December 15, 2015 
OML 2015- 191 
Brian Fox, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410 
Quincy, MA 02169 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Fox: 
This office received a complaint from Kevin Walsh on November 21,' alleging that 
the Danvers Retirement Board (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, GL. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about September 30. 
An amended complaint was filed with the Board on October 5. You responded, on behalf 
of the Board, to both versions of the complaint by letter dated October 23. In his 
complaint, Mr. Walsh alleges that on September 21, he attended a private meeting "under 
false pretenses" that did not comply with the Open Meeting Law. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching our decision, we reviewed the original and amended complaints; your 
October 23 response, on behalf of the Board; and the November 21 request for further 
review filed with our office. Additionally, we spoke by telephone with you and with the 
complainant on December 8. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board consists of five members, thus three 
members constitute a quorum. The complainant is a member of the Board. On September 
14, Board Chair Wayne Marquis invited the complainant to meet with him and Town 
Manager Steven Bartha to discuss "a retirement Board related issue." On September 21, 
the complainant met with Chair Marquis and the Town Manager in the Town Manager's 
office at Town Flail to discuss certain concerns. 
' All dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
In general, meetings of a public body must be noticed and open to the public. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(a), (b). A meeting is "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any 
matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A deliberation is "an oral or 
written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among 
a quoram of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. A "quorum" 
is, generally, a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id. 
The complainant alleges that he was invited to an unposted, private meeting of the 
Board, in violation of the Open Meeting Law, The September 21 meeting involved only 
two Board members, along with the Town Manager who is not a member of the Board. 
Because there was no quorum present at this meeting, since a quorum of the Board is three 
members, there was no deliberation necessitating a posted meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; 
OML 2014-93; OML 2013-169.2 We therefore find no violation of the Open Meeting 
Law. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We now consider 
the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not 
address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with our office. 
Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Kevin Walsh 
Danvers Retirement Board 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at: https://www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 