===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY G EN ERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.govlago 
April 9, 2012 
OML 2012 — 29 
Earl Bowen, Chairman 
Town of Charlemont 
Board of Health 
P.O. Box 465 
Charlemont, MA 01339 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chairman Bowen: 
This office received two complaints from William and Norma Coli on or about August 
31, 2011, alleging that the Charlemont Board of Health (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Board and were dated 
March 30 and April 22, 2011.1  The Board responded to the original complaints by letter dated 
August 10, 2011. In their complaints, the Colis allege that the minutes from the Board's March 9 
and April 13, 2011 meetings failed to provide an adequate summary of the discussions on each 
subject. 
We reviewed the March 30 and April 22, 2011 complaints filed with the Board; the 
Board's August 10, 2011 response; the August 31, 2011 complaint filed with our office; letters to 
our office from the complainants, dated September 7, 2011 and December 14, 2011; minutes 
from the Board's March 9, 2011, April 13, 2011, and July 6, 2011 meetings; and audio 
recordings of the Board's March 9 and April 13, 2011 meetings. In addition, we interviewed 
Board Chair Earl Bowen by telephone on March 1, 2012.2  
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
FACTS  
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. 
We note that the complainants did not use the complaint form approved by the Attorney General and available on 
the Attorney General's website, as required by 940 CMR 29.05(1). 2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
0 
===PAGE 2===
On March 9, 2011, the Board held a public hearing on draft licensing defmitions. The 
Colis, along with their attorney, Robert Sacco, attended the hearing and made an audio 
recording. The recording of the hearing reflects that at least half of the discussion concerned the 
Board's proposed defmition of "Lodging," including the source of the proposed language, the 
intent behind it, and the implications for local property owners. Several members of the public 
(including Mr. Coli), at least one member of the Town's Board of Selectmen, and several 
attorneys participated in what was, at times, a very vigorous discussion of the issue. 
On March 18, 2011, the Colis sent an email to the Board noting six perceived 
deficiencies in the Board's draft minutes from the public hearing. Among the deficiencies noted 
in the email were the following: 
Item 13: It was Win Healy (not Phil Banks) that asked for someone other than Mr. 
Bowen to answer questions about the "Motel/Lodging Establishment" definition, 
particularly whether the new definition would "bring any others not currently 
licensed/permitted under the BOH perviewlsic]. . . 
Item 14: My bringing up the March 25, 2010 letter from the Deputy Counsel of MA DPH 
was not about why the BOH did not use the Chapter 140 definition. It was to ask if 
everyone who had been on the Board at that time had seen that letter (answer was "no"), 
and pointing out that the letter clearly stated that Blue Heron Farm was not a hotel, motel, 
lodging house, etc. under Ch. 140. 
The corresponding sections of the minutes from the March 9, 2011 hearing read as 
follows: 
13. BOH was then asked by Phil Banks the purpose of the Lodging definition with a 
response from someone other than Earl Bowen. Robert Lingle replied that the definitions 
were to clarify language of public health issues. 
14. William Coli discussed letter dated March 25, 2010, asking why BOH did not use 
State Housing Code Chapter 140 for Lodging definition. Noted BOH will take definition 
under advise. 
On April 13, 2011, the Board held an open meeting. The Colis attended and made an 
audio recording of parts of the meeting. During the recorded portion of the meeting, the Board 
debated whether to discuss the content of a letter sent by the Colis. Board members noted that 
the meeting agenda for that night was very long, but also that the arguments in the letter should 
be discussed before the Board made any decisions on the proposed definitions. Board members 
acknowledged that the Motel / Lodging establishment definition was the one that would take the 
longest to work on, and could potentially result in a legal challenge. Following significant 
disagreement about whether creation of such a definition was even necessary at that time, and 
about whether the Department of Revenue's definition was an appropriate definition to use for 
the Board's purposes, the Board decided to table the discussion until later in the meeting, if there 
was time, or until a later date. 
On April 22, 2011, the Colis sent a letter to the Board complaining of several alleged 
violations of the Open Meeting Law during the April 13, 2011 meeting. Amongst the allegations 
was a complaint that Item 6 in the minutes from that meeting read incorrectly because: 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The minutes note the Board's opinions about the correctness of our counsel sending 
individual letters to Board members at their home address. However, absolutely no 
mention is made of the over 30 minutes of discussion between the Chair and another 
Board member (i.e., Mr. Robert Lingle) about the latter's wish to discuss said letter prior 
to any further discussion of its subject (i.e., draft definitions of businesses that require a 
license from the Board of Health). 
The relevant sections of the minutes from the April 13, 2011 meeting read as follows: 
6. Discussion of letters received by board members, addressed to each of their homes 
from Attorney Robert C. Sacco, regarding William and Norma Coli. Discussed that it 
was not correct to do so and that BOH mail should come to the town hall. Noted that the 
board will further discuss letter at a later date. 
7. Discussion of BOH definitions and The Massachusetts General Laws. Noted that the 
Board will work on the BOH definitions [at] a later date. 
On July 6, 2011, in response to the Open Meeting Law complaints, the Board met in open 
session and approved certain revisions to the minutes of the March 9 and April 13, 2011 
meetings. The Board discussed the summary of Item 6 contained in the April 13, 2011 draft 
minutes and concluded that the discussion was sufficient for what was required by the Open 
Meeting Law. The minutes do not reflect any specific discussion of Items 13 and 14 in the 
minutes from the March 9, 2011 meeting, and the Chair does not recall any such discussion 
occurring. 
On August 31, 2011, the Colis notified our office that they were "not fully satisfied with 
the remedial action taken" by the Board. On September 7, 2011, they clarified by letter that, in 
particular, they sought further review of the Board's failure to include their proposed changes to 
Items 13 and 14 in the minutes of the March 9, 2011 meeting, and the Board's failure to amend 
Item 6 in the April 13, 2011 meeting minutes. 
Complainant requests that the Board be required to amend the minutes accordingly. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). While the minutes must include a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a transcript is not required.3  
When reviewing meeting minutes for compliance with the requirement to create and 
maintain accurate meeting minutes, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy 
requirement. OML 2011-55. 4  By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should 
3  Note, however, that other statutes may impose additional requirements for public hearings. 
4  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
3 
===PAGE 4===
contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. Id. 
Following our review, we find that the Board substantially complied with the requirement 
that it provide an accurate and sufficiently detailed summary of the discussion that occurred. 
The minutes do not cover every remark or opinion presented at the meeting, but the Board 
included the minimum that the law requires. Although the content of meeting minutes beyond 
those minimum requirements is left to the discretion of the public body, we encourage public 
bodies to include dissenting or minority opinions whenever possible. The Board's minutes — 
particularly those from the April 13, 2011 meeting — omit these types of details about the 
discussion that occurred. Where significant debate on a matter occurs and it's clear that one or 
more members of the body and/or the public disagree with the decision ultimately taken by the 
public body, public bodies should note the opposing viewpoints in the meeting minutes. While it 
is not necessary to record the comments of every speaker, and we acknowledge the difficulty of 
doing so where there are many speakers whose remarks may even overlap, if a particular 
individual speaks at some length or is the only one to offer an argument for or against a proposal, 
that person and his or her comments should be identified in the minutes. These best practices 
were communicated to the Chair during our March 1, 2012 interview. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this letter 
to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Amy L. Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 William and Norma Coli 
4 