===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
May 11, 2021 
 
OML 2021 – 64 
 
 
Bruce E. Hopper  
Deputy General Counsel 
James Plotkin 
Legal Counsel 
Division of Professional Licensure 
1000 Washington Street, Suite 710 
Boston, MA  02118 
 
By email only:    
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Hopper and Attorney Plotkin: 
 
 This office received a complaint from Michael Muehe on August 12, 2020, alleging that 
the Massachusetts Architectural Access Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 13, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated August 3.  The complaint alleges that the 
Board improperly convened in a quasi-judicial meeting on July 13 that was not accessible to 
members of the public and, prior to convening in that quasi-judicial meeting, the Board required 
attendees to leave the meeting.  
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the Board’s 
response to the request for further review.  Additionally, we reviewed the notice and open 
session minutes of the Board meeting held on July 13.  Finally, we spoke with the complainant 
on November 3, and with both of you on May 5, 2021. 
 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On or about June 25, the Division of Capital Asset 
Management and Maintenance (“DCAMM”) submitted an application for a variance for the 
Chelsea Soldiers’ Home, Quigley Hospital.  Specifically, the application requested a variance 
from the requirement that each bedroom have adequate wheelchair turning space.  Medical care 
facilities must provide each bedroom with adequate space to provide a minimum clear floor 
space of 36 inches along each side of a bed and an accessible route to each side of each bed.  See 
521 CMR 13.6.  The application for a variance explained that the necessary wheelchair turning 
space and clear floor space requirements could be achieved along only one side of each bed but 
not on both sides, without significantly reducing the number of residents and patients. 
 
The complainant, an access analyst for the Boston Center for Independent Living 
(“BCIL”), noted BCIL’s conditional support for the application, but requested that ceiling lifts be 
required for each bed.  The Board initially reviewed DCAMM’s application during a meeting 
held on June 29 and voted to grant the requested variance on the condition that ceiling lifts be 
provided in each individual bed space.  The Board issued a written decision on July 1, DCAMM 
appealed the next day requesting an Adjudicatory Hearing, and the Board granted the request. 
  
The Board duly posted notice for a virtual meeting to be held on July 13 at 9:00 A.M.  
The notice listed seven main topics, including “Incoming Case Review,” “Quasi-Judicial 
Session, Pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 18,” “Administrative Discussion,” “Decisions from June 29, 
2020 Hearings,” “Advisory Opinion,” “Hearings,” and “Matters not reasonably anticipated 48 
hours in advance of meeting.”  All but two of these main topics included numerous sub-topics 
under each main heading.  Under the topic of Hearings, the notice listed three variance hearings, 
one of which was for the Chelsea Soldiers’ Home. 
 
The July 13 meeting was held as planned.  The Board first reviewed ten new applications 
and discussed two advisory opinions.  The Board then held its first hearing at 11:00 A.M. 
regarding a variance for the North End Music Hall.  The Board took a one-hour lunch break at 
noon.  Upon reconvening at 1:00 P.M., the Board held its second hearing regarding a variance 
for a property in East Boston.  The Board then held its third hearing at 2:00 P.M. relative to the 
Chelsea Soldiers’ Home variance application and request for an adjudicatory hearing.  The Board 
heard from the applicant, architect, project manager and Acting Superintendent for the Chelsea 
Soldiers’ Home, as well as the complainant.   
 
At the conclusion of this hearing, the Board voted by majority vote to enter into a “Quasi-
Judicial session” and asked those present to leave the virtual meeting.  The Board convened in 
such session for approximately 20 minutes and deliberated on whether to grant the variance for 
the Chelsea Soldiers’ Home.  The Board decided to grant the variance with the conditions that 
the facility have adequate staffing and submit semi-annual updates on the project and its ultimate 
completion.  The Board issued a written decision on July 30.2  
 
2 The written decision states that the Board met “in executive session” to “deliberate on its decision” regarding the 
Chelsea Soldiers’ Home.  We do not find that the Board convened in executive session for purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law.  Rather, we find that the Board’s use of the phrase “executive session” simply refers to that portion of 
the July 13 meeting when it met in a quasi-judicial session that was closed to the public.   
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The Board returned to open session after the conclusion of the quasi-judicial session, 
allowed members of the public to re-join the virtual meeting, and then discussed the remaining 
topics.     
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  A “meeting” is defined, in 
relevant part, as a “deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s  
jurisdiction; provided, however, ‘meeting’ shall not include: . . . (d) a meeting of a quasi-judicial 
board or commission held for the sole purpose of making a decision required in an adjudicatory 
proceeding brought before it.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.   
 
The complaint challenges the propriety of the Board’s July 13 quasi-judicial discussions.  
When a state quasi-judicial public body convenes for the sole purpose of making a decision 
required in an adjudicatory proceeding, it is not holding a “meeting” subject to the requirements 
of the Open Meeting Law.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2013-104.3  Here, DCAMM submitted 
an application for a variance for the Chelsea Soldiers’ Home, which the Board granted with 
certain conditions.  DCAMM appealed the Board’s decision and requested an adjudicatory 
hearing, which was scheduled for July 13.  See 521 CMR 4.1.1(a) (any person aggrieved by the 
Board’s action may request an adjudicatory hearing within 30 days of the decision).   
 
During the July 13 meeting, the Board held an adjudicatory hearing relative to the 
variance application and appeal filed by DCAMM for work at the Chelsea Soldiers’ Home.  The 
Board posted notice of the hearing and the hearing was open to the public.  See OML 2015-38; 
OML 2014-3; OML 2013-189; OML 2012-66 (finding that access to a meeting must include the 
opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the 
members of the public body).  At the conclusion of the hearing, the Board met privately for the 
sole purpose of rendering a decision on DCAMM’s application.  We find that the quasi-judicial 
session held by the Board on July 13 was solely to deliberate and render a decision following an 
adjudicatory proceeding and was therefore exempt from the definition of “meeting.”  See OML 
2015-103.  Moreover, because this portion of the meeting was not a public meeting within the 
meaning of the Open Meeting Law, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
excluding members of the public from attending the quasi-judicial session.  We remind the 
Board that when it is aware that members of the public have remained near the meeting location 
in anticipation of a resumption of the meeting, the Board should make reasonable efforts to 
broadcast that it is reconvening in open session. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
    
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  Michael Muehe – By email only:  
Massachusetts Architectural Access Board c/o Executive Director William Joyce – By 
email only:  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
