===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 12, 2018 
OML 2018-79 
Dan-en Klein, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Klein: 
This office received a complaint from Michael Kiely on April 26, alleging that the 
Somerville Board of Aldermen Confirmation of Appointments and Personnel Matters 
Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 Lhe 
complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about February 20, and you 
responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, in a letter dated March 12. In his 
complaint, Mr. Kiely alleges that during its the Committee's January 25 executive session, a 
Board of Aldermen member who is not a member of the Committee passed a document to a 
Committee member.2 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. 
We also reviewed the notice and open session minutes of the Committee's January 25 
meeting. 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a standing committee of the 
Somerville Board of Aldermen. As a five-member public body, three members constitute a 
quorum of the Committee. The Board of Aldermen is an 11-member public body, thus six 
members constitute a quorum of the Board of Aldermen. During its January 25 meeting, the 
Committee considered recommending individuals, including the complainant, for 
1 All dates refer to the year 2018. 
2 Mr. Kiely also alleges that this Board member is biased again him and that a Committee member pressured him 
to make a decision. Even if true, these allegations would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law. 
Accordingly, we decline to review them. See OML 2017-125. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
appointment to the position of police lieutenant. During this meeting, the Committee 
convened in executive session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(l). The Committee invited 
members of the Board of Aldermen who do not serve on the Committee to attend the 
executive session for observation, only. One of those visiting Board of Aldermen members, 
Mark Neidergang, passed a document to Committee (and Board of Aldermen) member Lance 
Davis. Mr. Neidergang then left the meeting. Mr. Davis did not pass along this document to 
any other Committee member. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body (during which all 
deliberation takes place) be open and accessible to the public unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(a); OML 2012-49.3 Access must include the 
opportunity to be physically present as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the 
members of the public body. See OML 2017-16; OML 2013-189; OML 2012-66; OML 
2012-48. 
The complaint alleges that, during the Committee's January 25 executive session, a 
Board of Aldermen member who is not a member of the Committee, passed a document to a 
Committee member who also serves on the Board of Aldermen. The passing of this 
document between these two individuals is not deliberation, as defined by the Open Meeting 
Law, because it is not a communication between a quorum of either the Committee or the 
Board of Aldermen. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (a "deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum 
of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction"). Furthermore, the Committee 
member who received the document did not share it with anyone else or initiate a discussion 
about it at the meeting. Accordingly, we find that the Committee did not violate the law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
DISCUSSION 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
cc: Michael Kiely 
Somerville Board of Aldermen Confirmation of Appointments & Personnel Matters 
Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 