===PAGE 1===
  THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
1 
 
October 6, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 127  
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Joseph A. Emerson, Jr. 
Emerson & Emerson 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Emerson: 
 
This office received three complaints filed by Gerard Mackin and one complaint filed by 
Gail Sheehan alleging that the Weymouth School Committee (the “Committee”), the 
Committee’s chair Lisa Belmarsh, and the superintendent Jennifer Curtis-Whipple
1 violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Mr. Mackin’s complaints were originally filed with 
the Committee on May 1,2 May 6, and May 7. You responded to these complaints on behalf of 
the Committee by letters dated May 12 and 25. Ms. Sheehan’s complaint was originally filed 
with the Committee on May 3, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated 
May 22. Because all of the complaints relate to the same subject matter, we resolve them jointly 
through this determination letter. 
 
The complaints allege that 1) on April 28 or 29 the Committee’s Budget Subcommittee 
deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting regarding closure of the Nash School; 2) on 
April 30 the Committee discussed closing the Nash School without including that topic on the 
notice for its April 30 meeting; and 3) on May 6, a quorum of the Committee deliberated during 
an open forum hosted by the Superintendent without first posting notice.     
 
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently 
detailed notice for its April 30 meeting. We do not find that the Committee violated the Law in 
the other ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
 
1 The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and their members; therefore, we decline to review any 
allegations that Ms. Curtis-Whipple violated the Law. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
2 All dates in this determination are in 2020, unless otherwise stated.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
  
complaints, the Committee’s responses, the requests for further review, the meeting notice for 
the Committee’s April 30 meeting, and a video recording of the Committee’s April 30 meeting.3 
We also communicated with the Complainants by email4 and with counsel for the Committee5 
and Chair Belmarsh by email and phone.  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a seven-member public body; thus, four 
members constitute a quorum. The Budget Subcommittee is a three-member public body; thus, 
two members constitute a quorum. On March 26, the Committee voted to approve a proposed 
budget for fiscal year 2021. On April 27, in response to the financial impacts of the ongoing 
public health emergency created by the outbreak of the 2019 novel Coronavirus, the Mayor 
presented an updated budget from his office to the Weymouth Town Council. The Mayor’s new 
proposed budget provided for approximately 2.2 million dollars less than the Committee had 
anticipated in its March 26 proposed budget. In response, the Superintendent and her budget 
team began to consider options for addressing the funding gap. On April 29, the Committee 
received notice that it would go before the Town Council on May 5 regarding its budget.  
 
On April 28, at 4:48 p.m., the Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on April 
30. Included in the notice was the topic “Review Town of Weymouth 2021 Budget Submission 
Impact on Weymouth Schools FY21 Budget Proposal.” On April 29, at 10:15 a.m., the 
Superintendent sent an email on behalf of herself and Chair Belmarsh informing Nash School 
staff and families that “due to the economic impact of COVID-19 on the 2020-2021 school-year 
budget, the School Committee will be reviewing the recommendation of district leadership to 
close the Nash Primary School at its next meeting on Thursday, April 30.” Public response to the 
consideration of closing the Nash School was swift and substantial, with many members of the 
public calling and emailing the school administration and others. 
 
On April 30, the Committee convened its meeting via Zoom. Approximately 700 people 
attended the meeting. A large portion of the four-hour-long meeting was spent discussing the 
potential closure of the Nash School. This included two public comment sessions during which 
the public expressed strong opposition to closing the Nash School. Some Committee members 
also expressed opposition to closing the Nash School. In between the public comment sessions, 
the Superintendent and Assistant Superintendent gave a presentation on the school budget and 
potential responses to the 2.2-million-dollar gap. The presentation covered, among other things, 
various potential responses to the budget gap, including not renewing nonprofessional positions, 
a reduction in administrative staff, transferring funds from certain accounts for a onetime 
savings, freezing nonunion employees’ salaries, cutting utility expenses, and temporarily closing 
the Nash School. During the meeting there was also substantial discussion regarding budget 
terminology; funding for a proposed full day kindergarten program and whether that was related 
to the proposal to close the Nash School; positions that had to be filled to comply with state and 
 
3 Recordings of the Committee’s meetings may be found at https://weymouth.tv/.  
4 We reached out to Ms. Sheehan at the email address provided on the complaint form on September 11 requesting 
any additional information she felt was relevant and helpful to our review of her complaint. We did not receive a 
response.  
5 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person throughout. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
  
federal laws; contractual obligations; and other items related to the budget process, the budget 
gap, and potential solutions. The Committee did not take any action that evening with respect to 
the Nash School.  
 
On May 4, the Superintendent sent an email to Nash School families informing them that 
“[a]fter listening to your feedback about the potential closure of the Nash School and after 
extensive examination of the current $2.2 million budget shortfall, we have decided to take the 
option of closing the Nash School off the table as a means to close the budget gap.”   
 
 On May 6 the Superintendent hos ted an open forum. A quorum of the Committee 
attended the forum, including Chair Belmarsh and John Sullivan. During the forum, Chair 
Belmarsh answered questions from the public and clarified issues she believed had been 
inaccurately stated. Mr. Sullivan also spoke in response to comments from members of the 
public that the Committee had already decided to close the Nash School by providing 
information about the budget process and informing the public that no such decision had been 
made and that they could come to future Committee meetings and have their voices heard.  
 
 The only communication during the  May 6 forum between members of the Committee 
occurred when Mr. Sullivan began to speak and Chair Belmarsh reminded him that the 
Committee had not posted notice for a meeting and so they could not deliberate. Mr. Sullivan 
informed the Chair that his only intention was to inform the public about the budget process.  
    
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law states, in relevant part, that “a public body shall 
post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting . . . Notice shall be printed in 
a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time and place of such meeting 
and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(b). The Open Meeting Law does not require the chair of a public body to 
anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of any discussion, but rather to list those 
topics that he or she reasonably anticipates will be discussed. See OML 2016-130; OML 2011-
36; OML 2011-23; OML 2011-13.6 Public bodies must list reasonably anticipated topics in a 
meeting notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a 
topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the 
topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2019-70.  
 
The Open Meeting Law defines a “meeting” as “a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. However, this definition 
includes several exceptions, including that the “attendance by a quorum of a public body at a 
public or private gathering, including a conference or training program or a media, social or 
other event” shall not constitute a meeting, “so long as the members do not deliberate.” Id. 
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
  
“Deliberation” is defined, in relevant part, as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.” Id. A “quorum” is defined as “a simple majority of the members 
of the public body.” Id. 
 
I. We Do Not Find That the Budget Subcommittee Deliberated Outside of a Properly 
Posted Meeting on April 28 or 29 Regarding the Closure of the Nash School.7  
 
In his May 6 complaint, Mr. Mackin states that he “believe[s] that a quorum of WSC 
budget committee deliberated [on April 28 or 29] about closing the Nash school to fund all day 
kin[d]ergarten and the supt. and atty Belmarsh sent a letter advising the public of their decision. 
The meeting at which such deliberation took place was not advertised.” In subsequent 
discussions with our office Chair Belmarsh explained that a quorum of the Budget Subcommittee 
did not meet on April 28 or 29, nor did it discuss closing the Nash School. In response to our 
office’s request for any information supporting his allegation that the Budget Subcommittee had 
improperly deliberated outside of a posted meeting regarding the Nash School, Mr. Mackin 
explained that he had no further information regarding the allegation.  
 
Complainants must allege violations with a degree of specificity, as our office will not 
conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations. See OML 2012-106; 
OML Declination 3-12-12 (Cohasset Board of Selectmen). We find that Mr. Mackin’s allegation 
was not sufficiently specific, nor did he provide any subsequent details, which would enable us 
to further investigate this allegation. Therefore, we decline to further review this allegation and 
do not find that the Budget Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
II. The Committee’s April 30 Meeting Notice Was Insufficiently Detailed Where it Did 
Not Include the Potential Closure of the Nash School as a Topic for Discussion. 
 
Public bodies must list reasonably anticipated topics in a meeting notice with “sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). Here, there is no dispute that Chair Belmarsh anticipated 
that closing the Nash School was one of several potential options for closing the budget gap that 
would be discussed at the April 30 meeting. The issue we must address is whether the notice 
topic “Review Town of Weymouth 2021 Budget Submission Impact on Weymouth Schools 
FY21 Budget Proposal” reasonably advised the public of the issues that were anticipated to be 
discussed. We find that it did not.  
 
In communications with our office, Chair Belmarsh explained that when notice was 
posted 48 hours in advance of the April 30 meeting, she anticipated that the Committee would 
engage in a general, high-level, discussion regarding the impact of the budget gap and several 
possible options for closing the budget gap, one of which was closing the Nash School. Chair 
Belmarsh explained that it was only after public outcry in response to mention of a proposal to 
close the Nash School that she began to realize that that particular proposal would likely 
dominate the discussion at the April 30 meeting.  
 
7 In the original complaint dated May 6, the Complainant recorded the alleged violation date as May 28 or 29. In 
subsequent communications with our office, the Complainant clarified that he meant April 28 or 29.   
===PAGE 5===
5 
  
 
Although we credit Chair Belmarsh’s statement that the anticipated purpose of the April 
30 meeting was to consider a variety of possible options for closing the budget gap, we find, 
based on all the evidence, that the possible closure of the Nash School in particular was an 
anticipated topic that should have been specifically identified on the meeting notice. We reach 
this conclusion, in part, based on the email that Chair Belmarsh and the Superintendent sent to 
the Nash School community shortly after the meeting notice was posted, stating that “the School 
Committee will be reviewing the recommendation of district leadership to close the Nash 
Primary School at its next meeting on Thursday, April 30.” We therefore find that the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting by posting an insufficiently detailed meeting notice for its April 30 
meeting.  
 
Next we must determine whether this violation was intentional, as Ms. Sheehan alleges. 
An intentional violation is 
an act or omission by a public bo dy or a member thereof, in kno wing violation 
of M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25. Evidence of an intentional violation . . . shall 
include, but not be limited to, that the public body or public body member: (a) acted 
with specific intent to violate the law; (b) acted with deliber ate ignorance of the 
law’s requirements; or (c) was previously informed by receipt of a decision from a 
court of competent jurisdiction or advised by the Attorney General, pursuant to 940 
CMR 29.07 or 940 CMR 29.08, that the conduct violates [the Law]. Where a public 
body or public body member has made a good faith attempt at compliance with the 
law, but was reasonably mistaken about its requirements, such conduct will not be 
considered an intentional violation. 
940 CMR 29.02. 
Although our office has twice found that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by posting insufficiently detailed meeting notices, see OML 2019-161 (finding that notice for 
several executive sessions held under Purposes 2 and 3 were insufficient where the Committee 
did not identify the individual with whom the Committee would be discussing a grievance 
matter) and 2017-147 (finding that the notice topic “Job Descriptions” was insufficient where it 
was anticipated that two particular positions would be discussed), we do not find an intentional 
violation in this instance. We credit Chair Belmarsh’s explanation that the events surrounding the 
budget process in response to the serious financial challenges presented by the pandemic were 
chaotic and fast-moving. Additionally, the April 29 email from Chair Belmarsh and the 
Superintendent shows that Chair Belmarsh was not attempting to conceal the fact that the 
Committee would discuss the closure of the Nash School, but rather endeavored to publicize that 
specific issue. For these reasons, we do not find that the Committee acted intentionally to violate 
the Open Meeting Law.8   
 
8 We note that on April 30, a member of the public contacted the Division of Open Government to express concern 
that the Committee planned to discuss closure of the Nash School at its meeting that evening, despite that topic not 
explicitly being listed on the meeting notice. In response, a Division attorney spoke with the Committee’s legal 
counsel and explained that if a particular topic was anticipated to be discussed at the meeting, but was not included 
on the meeting notice in sufficient detail, then it would be inappropriate to discuss that topic. The Division generally 
 
===PAGE 6===
6 
  
 
III. A Quorum of the School Committee Did Not Deliberate at the Superintendent’s Open 
Forum on May 6.  
 
Mr. Mackin alleges that on May 6 the Superintendent hosted an open forum via Zoom to 
discuss the Nash School and the budget. Mr. Mackin alleges that a quorum of the Committee was 
in attendance and deliberated during the Superintendent’s open forum. Specifically, Mr. Mackin 
states that “[J]ohn [S]ullivan began to speak but atty [B]elmarsh told him in substance to stop 
talking because the meeting was not an official meeting of the WSC.” The Committee responded 
that a quorum was in attendance at the May 6 open forum, but that they did not deliberate. 
Instead, Chair Belmarsh addressed questions and comments from the public and Mr. Sullivan 
explained the budget process to the public. Chair Belmarsh explained that she warned Mr. 
Sullivan that they could not deliberate during the meeting when he began to speak, but that he 
informed Chair Belmarsh that he only intended to explain the budget process to the members of 
the public. No other members of the Committee spoke during the open forum.  
 
We note that in its response the Committee compares the facts of the complaint at issue 
here to the facts at issue in another determination our office issued involving the Committee, 
OML 2020-40
9, and states, in part, that the Committee did not deliberate during the May 6 open 
forum because “communications by those School Committee members who did speak addressed 
the budget process, which is not School Committee business.” Although we find here that the 
Committee did not deliberate during the May 6 open forum, we reach that finding for a different 
reason. We find here that the Committee did not deliberate where the comments made by Chair 
Belmarsh and Mr. Sullivan were directed to the public to provide information and answers, and 
were not directed at each other or the other members of the Committee present at the open 
forum. See OML 2019-79; OML 2015-114 (“We have stated in the past that no improper 
deliberation takes place when less than a quorum participates in a discussion at a public event 
like the one at issue here.”). Additionally, the only specific comment that Mr. Mackin points to 
in his complaint is a comment made by Chair Belmarsh to Mr. Sullivan warning Mr. Sullivan 
that the Committee had not posted notice and so they could not deliberate. We will not find a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law where a public body member attempts to warn other public 
body members against violating the Open Meeting law. See OML 2018-6; OML 2020-83. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by posting an insufficiently detailed notice for its April 30 meeting. We order the Committee’s 
 
cannot give advisory opinions outside of the formal Open Meeting Law complaint process because it does not have 
knowledge of all of the facts and circumstances on which an official finding would need to be based, and therefore 
did not formally advise the Committee that it may not discuss the Nash School matter. However, from this 
conversation, the Committee apparently believed that it was permissible to discuss the Nash School matter as long 
as it did not vote or otherwise take action. We therefore inform the Committee that if an anticipated topic is not 
included on a meeting notice, the topic should not be discussed at all, regardless of whether a vote is taken. 
9 In OML 2020-40 we found two members who spoke during another forum hosted by the Superintendent did not 
speak as members of the Committee, but rather spoke in their professional capacities as a teacher and business 
owner. We found that the comments of these two members, along with those of Chair Belmarsh acting as moderator, 
did not relate to Committee business.  
===PAGE 7===
7 
  
immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements. While we do not find the 
violation to be an intentional one, we note that the Committee has now been warned on three 
separate occasions against posting insufficiently detailed meeting notices. A finding of a future 
violation in this regard may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the law and could 
result in the imposition of a civil penalty of up to $1,000 per occurrence.  
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Gerard F. Mackin, Jr. (via e-mail:
  ) 
 
Gail Sheehan (via e-mail:  ) 
  
This determination w
as issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
