===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
April 17, 2013 
OML 2013 — 48 
James B. Lampke, Esq. 
Town Counsel 
Town of Hull Law Department 
115 North Street, Suite 3 
Hingham, MA 02043 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Lampke: 
This office received a complaint from Karen Kaplan, dated October 9, 2012, 
alleging that the Hull Board of Selectmen (the "Board]") and the Hull Town Manager 
Phillip Lemniosl  violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint 
was originally filed with the Board on or about August 9, 2012, and the Board responded 
to the original complaint by letter dated September 27, 2012. In her complaint, Ms. 
Kaplan alleges that between its May 29 and August 7, 2012 meetings, the Board engaged 
in deliberation outside of a properly posted meeting regarding postponing a particular topic 
of discussion.2  
We reviewed the August 9, 2012 complaint; your September 27, 2012 response on 
behalf of the Board; and the October 9, 2012 complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the notice and minutes from the May 29, July 24 and 
August 7, 2012 Board meetings, as well as email correspondence sent and received 
between May 29 and August 7, 2012. Finally, we spoke by telephone with Chairman John 
Reilly. 
Mr. Lemnios is an individual public employee who is not a member of a public body, thus he was not 
required to comply with the Open Meeting Law and could not have violated it. We therefore decline to 
review the allegations against him and only consider his actions to the extent they relate to the complaint 
against the Board. 
2  Ms. Kaplan also submitted a public records request with her complaint. The Division of Open Government 
only enforces and interprets the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Because this request relates to 
the requirements of the Public Records Law, we decline to review it, and refer Ms. Kaplan to the Supervisor 
of Records in the Secretary of the Commonwealth's Public Records Division. 
0 
===PAGE 2===
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. On 
May 29, 2012, the Board convened a meeting in open session. The meeting notice, which 
was filed with the clerk on May 24, 2012, included the following topic: "Temple Beth 
Shalom- re: Parking Lot application." The meeting commenced with a discussion of an 
application that Temple Beth Shalom (the "Temple") submitted to the Board requesting 
permission to park vehicles in its parking lot for a fee. Numerous Hull residents 
participated in this discussion and offered their opinions on the application. The Board 
unanimously approved a motion "to request the police chief to re-examine the beach 
management community," and Chairman John Reilly noted that the Police chief would be 
present at the Board's July 12, 2012 meeting for an update and further discussion of the 
issue. The Board then approved the license with conditions. 
Soon after the meeting, Mr. Lemnios learned about an appeal to the Hull Zoning 
Board of Appeals ("ZBA") regarding the Temple parking lot, which was scheduled to be 
heard on August 16, 2012. Mr. Lemnios shared this information with Chairman Reilly, 
who decided to postpone any further discussion of the Temple parking lot until the ZBA 
rendered its decision. During a telephone conversation with our office, Chairman Reilly 
stated that he did not discuss the Temple parking lot issue with any other Board member 
outside of a properly posted meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly 
noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See  
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)—(b), 21. The Law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy 
surrounding deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v.  
School Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A "meeting" is defined, in 
relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or 
written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among 
a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, 
however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, 
scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of 
reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a 
member is expressed." Id. 
Because this is a five-member Board, three members constitute a quorum. Upon 
learning about the ZBA hearing, Chairman Reilly and Mr. Lemnios decided to postpone 
the Board discussion regarding the Temple parking lot until after the ZBA made a 
decision. The Town Manager is not a member of the Board. Furthermore, our 
investigation did not reveal any discussion of the issue outside of a properly posted 
2 
===PAGE 3===
meeting by any members other than the Chairman. Accordingly, because the 
communication was not between or among a quorum of the body, we find that the Board 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending 
with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or 
believe any facts in this letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Karen Kaplan 
Hull Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3 