===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
       May 20, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 60 
 
 
Gary P. Howayeck, Esq. 
Assistant Corporation Counsel 
City of Fall River 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
 
By email only: ghowayeck@fallriverma.org 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Howayeck: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on May 12, 2025, and a complaint 
from Rene Brown on May 16, 2025, alleging that the Fall River City Council (the “Council”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  Mr. Higgins’ complaint was originally 
filed with the Council on April 14, 2025, Ms. Brown’s complaint was originally filed with the 
Council on April 17, 2025, and you responded to both complaints, on behalf of the Council, by 
separate letters dated May 12, 2025.
1  The complaints allege that the Council discussed a topic 
that was not listed on the notice of the meeting held on April 8, 2025, and improperly deliberated 
while on recess during the April 8, 2025, meeting.     
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters.  Following 
our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged.  
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Council’s responses to 
the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review.  In addition, 
we reviewed the notice, minutes and video recording of the Council meeting held on April 8, 
 
1 We remind the Council that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, 
the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the 
complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of 
the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
2025, as well as a video recording of that portion of the meeting when the Council was in 
recess.2   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Council is a nine-member public body; thus, five 
members constitute a quorum. 
 
On April 4, 2025, at 1:22 P.M., the Council posted notice of a meeting to be held on 
April 8, 2025, at 7:00 P.M.  One of the headings listed on the notice was “Priority Matters.”  The 
notice then listed seven specific item descriptions that further advised the public of the topics to 
be discussed under this heading, which included “Mayor and request for confirmation of the 
appointment of Kelly Furtado to Police Chief and order requesting approval of contract.”  
 
The April 8, 2025, meeting was held as planned and all Council members attended the 
meeting.  For approximately one hour during the meeting, the Council discussed the Mayor’s 
proposed recommendation to appoint Kelly Furtado as Chief of Police.  In October 2024, Ms. 
Furtado was appointed the Interim Police Chief after the former police chief stepped down.  
Councilor Shawn Cadime began the discussion by stating that he was not in support of the 
Mayor’s recommendation to appoint Ms. Furtado as Chief of Police explaining that the police 
department had been plagued with internal politics and Ms. Furtado’s appointment, as an internal 
candidate, represented “more of the same.”  He suggested that a search committee be established 
and that the search for the next Chief of Police be a fair and transparent process.  
 
Councilor Laura-Jean Sampson then expressed her support in appointing Ms. Furtado as 
Chief of Police and recognized the number of police officers in the audience who came to the 
meeting to support Ms. Furtado’s appointment.  Members of the public applauded Councilor 
Sampson’s comments by clapping.  Councilors Cadime and Sampson then began to speak over 
one another.  
 
In an effort to regain control of the meeting, Council President Joseph Camara called for 
a recess.  During the recess, President Camara reminded members that contentious issues have 
previously been before the Council and members have the right to speak and state an opinion that 
other Councilors might disagree with.  He asked Councilors not to ruin their integrity and that 
ultimately it was the Council’s decision whether to approve the appointment recommended by 
the Mayor.  Councilor Cadime apologized and stated that there were members of the Council that 
were afraid to vote on certain matters because of fear of retaliation.  President Camara stated that  
he would continue the meeting once “cooler heads” prevailed and then walked away from the 
podium.  Other Councilors then left their seats.  The exchange between President Camara and the 
Councilors lasted for about two minutes. 
 
 
2 A video recording of the Council meeting held on April 8, 2025, is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rmvy3vw5xag; a video recording of the recess held during the Council’s April 
8,  2025, meeting is available at 
https://www.facebook.com/watch/?mibextid=wwXlfr&v=647035657942616&rdid=yyLrU78edlnpkBD4.    
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The Council resumed the meeting approximately eight minutes later.  Upon resuming, 
Councilor Cliff Pontes stated that he told the Mayor that he could not confirm Ms. Furtado as 
Chief of Police because he had concerns about the way the former police chief left and suggested 
that a fair and transparent process for a new police chief must be established.  Council Vice 
President Linda Pereira then asked if the Director of Human Resources, who was present at the 
meeting, could speak about the process utilized to appoint Ms. Furtado as Interim Police Chief.  
The Council unanimously voted to allow Nicholas Macolini, Director of Human Resources, to 
answer questions and provide additional information.  Mr. Macolini advised the Council that he, 
the Mayor and the former City Administrator interviewed four candidates for the position of 
Interim Police Chief in the Fall of 2024, and then subsequently appointed Ms. Furtado as Interim 
Police Chief in October.  Mr. Macolini expressed his belief that Ms. Furtado was supported by 
her colleagues and had made changes within the police department, which was why the Mayor 
recommended her appointment as Chief of Police.  Vice President Pereira expressed her concern 
that the appointment process was not transparent. 
 
Councilor Pontes questioned Mr. Macolini on the internal affairs investigation into the 
former police chief suggesting it was relevant to the appointment of Ms. Furtado because the 
internal affairs investigation began while Ms. Furtado was acting as Interim Police Chief and the 
Council was now being asked to support her as Chief of Police to lead the department.  Mr. 
Macolini explained the internal affairs investigation process and the subsequent outside 
investigation of the police department. 
  
Several Councilors suggested that the Council focus its discussions on the proposed 
appointment and not discuss the internal affairs investigation.  Councilor Sampson made a 
motion, which was seconded by Councilor Kirby, “to confirm the appointment” of Ms. Furtado 
as Chief of Police, which motion failed by majority vote.  Councilor Cadime then made a 
motion, which was seconded by Councilor Ponte, “to reject the appointment” of Ms. Furtado as 
Chief of Police, which motion was approved by majority vote.  The Council then unanimously 
voted to “send a letter to the administration requesting the creation of a formal search committee 
to interview candidates for the vacant Police Chief position.”  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is 
a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  Any communication among a quorum of 
a public body on matters that are pending or will come before it and within the public body’s 
jurisdiction is considered deliberation.  See OML 2015-3; OML 2014-108; OML 2013-136; 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Boelter v. Board of Selectmen of Wayland, 479 Mass. 233, 243 (2018).3  Moreover, the 
expression of an opinion of one public body member on matters within the body’s jurisdiction to 
a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no other public body member responds.  See 
OML 2016-104; OML 2015-33.   
 
The complaints allege that the Council improperly deliberated while on recess during the 
meeting held on April 8, 2025.  The Council suggests that the communications during the recess 
were to restore order and allow Councilors to calm down.  A video recording of the recess shows 
President Camara briefly speaking to the Council reminding members that everyone had a right 
to state an opinion, even one that other members might disagree with, and that he would continue 
the meeting once cooler heads prevailed asking members not to ruin their integrity.  We find here 
that the communications that occurred during the recess were not related to Council business but 
rather pertained to interpersonal dynamics and therefore did not constitute deliberation.  We have 
previously stated that a discussion was outside a body’s jurisdiction where it concerned purely 
interpersonal dynamics, such as how to avoid unnecessary confrontations, see OML 2011-38, a 
completed decision over which the body had no further authority, see OML 2017-88, and 
political statements on matters not likely to come before the body, see OML 2014-135.  Because 
we find here that President Camara was simply trying to regain control of the meeting when he 
communicated with Council members during the recess, we find that the Council did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law by deliberating while on recess during the April 8, 2025, meeting.  
 
With respect to the allegations in the complaints that Council members deliberated 
outside of a posted meeting by having “side conversations” with each other during the April 8, 
2025, meeting or spoke with each other prior to the April 8, 2025, meeting, we find insufficient 
evidence of such deliberation.  Here, Mr. Higgins’ complaint alleges that two Councilors, Paul 
Hart and Bradford Kilby, had “side conversations” throughout the April 8, 2025, meeting, while 
Ms. Brown’s complaint alleges that “two Councilors alluded to discussing” the police chief’s 
contract outside of a meeting.  First, after watching a video recording of the April 8, 2025, 
meeting, we did not observe Mr. Hart or Mr. Kilby engage in any “side conversations.”  Second, 
we note that during the meeting, Mr. Pontes mentioned having spoken with Vice President 
Pereira prior to the meeting about the appointment of Ms. Furtado.  Even if such conversations 
occurred as alleged, those separate conversations were only between two members of the 
Council.  Because the conversations involved a subquorum of Council members, they would not 
constitute deliberation.  See OML 2018-132; OML 2017-199; OML 2017-69.  Moreover, in the 
absence of specific evidence of deliberation outside of posted meetings regarding these matters, 
we do not find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law in these ways.  See OML 2024-
189.   
 
Finally, Ms. Brown’s complaint alleges that the Council discussed a topic, i.e. the 
termination of the prior police chief, without that topic being listed on the April 8, 2025, meeting 
notice.  Public bodies must post notice of each meeting “at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, 
excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and every notice must include “the date, time 
and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 5===
discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The list of topics shall have "sufficient
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940
CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of
the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35; OML 2012-71; OML 2011-44.
We find here that the discussion about the termination of the former police chief was
discussed in the context of the discussion about the Mayor's recommendation to confirm the
appointment of Kelly Furtado as Chief of Police, and therefore naturally flowed from discussion
of the topic listed on the notice. See OML 2026-26. We have previously explained that where a
public body's discussion naturally flows from its consideration of a posted agenda topic, the
notice was sufficient to inform the public of the discussion that occurred. See OML 2018-14;
OMIL 2014-44; OML 2014-38. Therefore, we find that the Council did not violate the Open
Meeting Law in this regard.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting
Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any
questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Keny lame Kilngue
KerryAnne Kilcoyne
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC.
Patrick Higgins - By email only:
Rene Brown - By email only:
Fall River City Council - By email only: city_council@fallriverma.org
Fall River City Clerk - By email only: city_clerk@fallriverma.gov
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.