===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL ONE ASHBURTON PLACE BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108  (617) 727-2200  (617) 727-4765 TTY  www.mass.gov/ago  
 March 30, 2020         OML 2020 – 44  Cynthia Amara, Esq. Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410 Quincy, MA 02169  By E-Mail Only camara@mhtl.com    RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint  Dear Attorney Amara: This office received a complaint from Christine McCue Potts on June 6, 2019, alleging that the Medfield School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on April 29, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated May 14.2 In her complaint, Ms. Potts alleges that the Committee’s notice for its April 1 meeting was insufficiently detailed.  Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, and the request for further review filed with our office. In addition, we reviewed the Committee’s April 1 meeting minutes and a video of the relevant portion of that meeting.  FACTS We find the facts as follows. On March 28 at 2:20 p.m., the Committee posted notice for an April 1 meeting which included the heading “Superintendent’s Report to the Committee,” and under that, the topics “Administrator Search Update” and “Informational Items.”  The Committee met on April 1 as scheduled. During the “Superintendent’s Report to the Committee” portion of the meeting, Superintendent Jeffrey Marsden reported to the Committee that a search committee had chosen two finalists for the Wheelock School Principal position. The Superintendent thanked all those on the search committee for volunteering their time and                                                              1 The parties agreed to engage in mediation pursuant to 940 CMR 29.05(9), but the attempts at mediation concluded unsuccessfully in March 2020. 2 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2019. 
===PAGE 2===
2  
outlined the final steps in the hiring process. The Superintendent reported that he had spoken with the finalist’s own superintendents on the day of the meeting and planned to meet with both finalists the following week. The School Committee representative on the search committee briefly remarked that she found the process very positive and enjoyable. The other members of the Committee did not discuss or otherwise offer feedback on the selected Wheelock School principal finalists. Rather, the Superintendent provided the update as a matter of information only, as the Superintendent possessed the authority to fill the principal position, without the approval of the Committee.  The Superintendent also informed the Committee that the hiring process for the Director of Learning and Innovation position would move forward soon, including the creation of another search committee. Committee members asked the Superintendent two questions about which age group the parents on the search committee would represent and the timing of the Director search process. Again, the Superintendent possessed the sole authority to hire the Director, regardless of the Committee’s input. The Committee thanked the Superintendent for the information and then moved on to other topics on the agenda.  DISCUSSION  The Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b), states in relevant part that, “a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting ... Notice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” Public bodies must list reasonably anticipated topics in a meeting notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2017-186.   In prior determinations, when a meeting notice has included as a topic a report or presentation from a person who is not a member of the public body, such as “Superintendent’s Report” or “Administrator’s Report” or “Report from Department Heads,” we have declined to find a violation of the Open Meeting Law for lack of specificity where the public body chair did not anticipate the specific nature of the deliberations to be had. Nonetheless, we have encouraged public body chairs as a best practice to solicit from the Superintendent and include on the meeting notice more detail regarding the precise matters to be discussed. See OML 2019-94; OML 2018-33; OML 2012-19.  Here, the Committee did in fact include two topics under the heading “Superintendent’s Report to the Committee.” The “Administrator Search Update” item was not required to identify the specific administrator positions or finalists’ names about which the Superintendent would report to the Committee, because the Superintendent merely provided an update to the Committee about the latest developments in his own hiring process. See OML 2020-41; OML 2019-94. If, on the other hand, the Committee itself had been interviewing candidates at the meeting or reviewing candidates for appointment, the Open Meeting Law would require the meeting notice to contain the names of those finalists if they were anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting. See OML 2019-24. We therefore find that the Committee did 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the sufficiency of the “Administrator Search 
Update” topic on the April 1 meeting notice. 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee’s April 1 meeting notice was 
sufficiently detailed and, therefore, find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. We now 
consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does 
not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Committee. Please 
feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Chase 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Christine McCue Potts  
 Medfield School Committee (scchair@email.medfield.net) 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
