===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
       September 10, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 138 
 
 
Michael A. D’Ortenzio, Jr., Esq.  
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, Massachusetts 02110 
 
By em
ail only: mdortenzio@k-plaw.com 
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney D’Ortenzio: 
 
This office received a complaint from Alfonso and Maureen Longobardi on April 29, 
2025, alleging that the Middlefield Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about March 19, 
2025, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated April 10, 2025.1  Specifically, 
the complaint alleges that the Board improperly removed one of the complainants from the 
meeting held on March 19. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, the 
minutes of the Board meeting held on March 19, and written statements from three members of 
the public who attended the March 19 meeting. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board held a meeting on March 19, and first heard 
from a member of the public who discussed the history of the town and the senior center’s role in 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2025. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
that history.  The Board then received updates from members on phone systems, the well pump 
at Town Hall, and repairs to town roads.   
 
Next, the Board reviewed an Open Meeting Law complaint filed by the complainants and 
discussed whether to forward the complaint to town legal counsel for response.  The interactions 
that thereafter occurred between the Board, the complainants, and members of the public in 
attendance at the meeting are in dispute.  The minutes of the March 19 meeting state the 
following: “As much discussion was taking place within the audience, the police chief asked the 
audience to quiet down.  The Police Chief felt Alfonso Longobardi was making comments after 
this warning to the audience, at which time, the Police Chief asked him to stop, or he would be 
asked to leave the meeting.  A heated back and forth between Mr. Longobardi and the Police 
Chief ensued, and the Police Chief escorted Mr. Longobardi out of the meeting.”  The minutes 
also state that Board member Tamarin Laurel-Paine spoke with members of the public who 
reported to her that Mr. Longobardi did not make any noise during the meeting but rather only 
started speaking in reply to the Police Chief’s accusations.  Written statements from members of 
the public, which were provided to this office, reflect the following: that during the Board’s 
discussions of whether to forward the complaint to town legal counsel, Member Laurel-Paine 
suggested that the Board instead be more proactive and work with the complainants to address 
the complaint; members of the public clapped to applaud this approach; Mr. Longobardi turned 
to give a thumbs up to one of the individuals that had clapped; the Police Chief approached Mr. 
Longobardi and demanded that he leave the meeting; Mr. Longobardi said he didn’t do anything 
but the Police Chief continued to demand he leave the meeting and thereafter escorted him out; 
Mrs. Longobardi left the meeting shortly thereafter. 
 
During the exchanges between the Police Chief and the audience, Board Chair Ann Marie 
Visconti moved to adjourn the meeting, but no member seconded the motion.  Ultimately, the 
Board voted by majority vote to forward the complaint to town legal counsel for response.  The 
Board then discussed the remaining open session topics. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when meeting in executive session, all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, §20(a).  In order to be open to the 
public, a meeting must be accessible to the public.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); OML 2014-3.
2 
Access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and 
hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2017-135; OML 
2016-54; OML 2015-38; OML 2014-3.   
 
The co
mplaint alleges that Mr. Longobardi was improperly removed from the Board’s 
March 19 meeting.  The right to be present during a meeting is not absolute.  In fact, the Open 
Meeting Law states, “No person shall disrupt the proceedings of a meeting of a public body.  If, 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
after clear warning from the chair, a person continues to disrupt the proceedings, the chair may 
orde
r the person to withdraw from the meeting and if the person does not withdraw, the chair 
may authorize a constable or other officer to remove the person from the meeting.”  See G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(g); OML 2013-135; OML 2011-2 (“The Open Meeting Law gives clear authority to 
the chair of a public body to conduct the meeting and regulate who may speak to the body. If the 
chair determines that a member of the public is disruptive, then the chair is empowered to ask 
that person to leave or have that person removed.”).  Here, the minutes of the March 19 meeting 
state that the Police Chief warned the audience to quiet down, the Police Chief specifically asked 
Mr. Longobardi to stop commenting or he would be asked to leave, there was a heated exchange 
between the two, and the Police Chief then removed Mr. Longobardi from the meeting.  
Although there is some dispute regarding Mr. Longobardi’s behavior during the meeting, it is 
clear that the Police Chief removed him from the March 19 meeting and not the Chair of the 
Board or anyone carrying out a specific directive from the Chair.  Had the Chair directed 
removal of Mr. Longobardi, we would likely find that his behavior did not rise to the level of 
disrupting the meeting such that the Open Meeting Law would authorize his removal from the 
meeting.  See OML 2023-211.  Nonetheless, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as it was the Police Chief and not the Chair who removed Mr. Longobardi from the 
meeting. 
  
Although we do not find a violation here, we take this opportunity to remind the Board 
that r
emoval of an individual from a public meeting should be used only as a last resort when a 
person continues to disrupt a meeting despite directives to the contrary or in cases of violent, 
threatening, or abusive behavior.  See OML 2023-211; OML 2022-197; OML 2018-77; OML 
2013-135.  Furthermore, in light of the Open Meeting Law’s presumption that all meetings shall 
be open to the public, the standard for finding an individual’s conduct disruptive such that the 
person may be removed from a meeting is high.  See OML 2022-143; OML 2019-123.   
 
With respect to the allegations in the complaint that the Board did not allow Mrs. 
Longobar
di to speak during the March 19 meeting, we do not find a violation.  The Open 
Meeting Law states that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body without 
permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.”  G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(g).  The Law does not require that a public body allow public participation; rather, the Law 
gives the chair of the public body discretion to decide whether to permit public comment during 
a meeting, and if public comment will be permitted, to set restrictions on public comment.  See 
OML 2020-9; OML 2019-138; OML 2017-189; OML 2014-23; OML 2012-78.  Because it is 
within the Chair’s discretion whether to allow public comment at all, as well as to establish 
parameters for public participation during a meeting, an allegation that Mrs. Longobardi was not 
allowed to provide comment would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See 
OML 2020-114; OML 2017-189; OML 2014-23; OML 2012-78.  We note that although the 
Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to allow public comment during meetings, we 
encourage public bodies to allow for as much public participation as time and circumstances 
permit. 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: 
  Alfonso and Maureen Longobardi – By email only:  
 Middlefield Select Board c/o Chair Ann Marie Visconti – By email only: 
middlefield.amv@gmail.com  
 Middlefield Town Clerk – By email only: middlefield.clerk@gmail.com
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
