===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
	 (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 	
April 9, 2013 
	 www.mass.gov/ago  
OML 2013 — 44 
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq. 
Kopelman & Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint — Carver Conservation Commission  
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received a complaint from Robert Belbin, dated December 28, 2012, alleging 
that the Carver Conservation Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on November 7, 
2012 and, following two extensions granted by our office, you responded to the complaint on 
behalf of the Commission by letter dated December 13, 2012.1  In his complaint, Mr. Belbin 
alleges that the Commission 1) made revisions to its November 7, 2012 meeting notice, but 
failed to identify on the notice when the revisions were made; 2) discussed matters during its 
November 7, 2012 meeting that were not specifically listed on its meeting notice 48 hours in 
advance of the meeting; and 3) revised the notice of its November 7, 2012 meeting, less than 48 
hours prior to said meeting, to include discussion of schedule changes, and then distributed a 
copy of the notice to the members of the Commission. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed Mr. Belbin's November 7, 2012 complaint and 
attached documents filed with the Commission; the Commission's December 13, 2012 response 
and attached exhibits; and Mr. Belbin's complaint filed with this office on December 28, 2012. 
The aforementioned documents and exhibits included: the original and revised notices for the 
Commission's November 7, 2012 meeting 2; the revised notice of the Commission's December 5, 
2012 meeting; and the draft minutes of the Commission's meetings on November 7, 2012 and 
December 5, 2012. We also reviewed sections of the Town of Carver's (the "Town") website 3  
describing the Commission and providing information on public meetings, including the 
Commission's meeting notices and minutes. 
1  The Commission sent its response to the complaint to our office on December 13, 2012 but did not forward a copy 
to the complainant. Our office forwarded the Commission's response to the complainant on December 20, 2012. 
We remind the Commission of the requirement to send a copy of responses to Open Meeting Law complaints to the 
complainant. See 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
2  There were a total of five versions of the meeting notice for the November 7, 2012 meeting: one original and four 
revised versions of the notice. All five versions were posted and available on the Town's website. 3 
www.carverma.org. 
1 
La 
===PAGE 2===
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to conspicuously record thereon or therewith the date- and time the notice for the 
Commission's November 7, 2012 meeting was posted. We do not find that this violation was 
intentional, however. With regards to the remaining allegations, we find that the Commission 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. The 
Commission posted the original notice of its November 7, 2012 meeting (hereinafter "Original 
Notice") on October 30, 2012 at 3:54 PM. One of the topics included in the Original Notice was: 
120 Cranberry Road — QBI Homes, Inc. — DEP#SE126-493 
Construction of a single family dwelling, paved driveway, sewage disposal 
system, well, utilities, site grading, and related site work. The project is 
within the 100-foot buffer zone to a trailwater/irrigation pond and an 
isolated wetland/isolated land subject to flooding. The project will require a 
variance from the Carver Wetlands Protection Bylaw. Copies of all plans, 
filings, and pertinent data are available at the Conservation Commission 
office. Possible vote to continue hearing or to approve or deny an Order of 
Conditions. 
On November 1, 2012, the Commission conducted a site visit to 120 Cranberry Road (the 
"Property"). During the visit, members of the Commission discovered an alleged violation of the 
Wetland Protections Act. On November 6, 2012, the Conservation Agent 4  (the "Agent") sent an 
e-mail to the owner of the Property informing him of the alleged violation and directing him to 
bring the Property into compliance within seven days. The Agent copied the Chair of the 
Commission (the "Chair") on this e-mail. Upon receiving the e-mail, the Chair directed the 
Agent to add a new topic regarding the alleged violation to the notice for the Commission's 
November 7, 2012 meeting. The Agent then posted an updated notice (hereinafter "Notice 
Revision 1") with the new topic shortly after 10:00 AM. on November 6, 2012. Shortly 
thereafter, the Agent noticed a typographical error on Notice Revision 1, fixed the typo and 
posted a corrected version of the notice (hereinafter "Notice Revision 2"). After the posting of 
Notice Revision 2, the Chair and the Agent discussed altering the Commission's regular meeting 
schedule to accommodate the Thanksgiving holiday and decided that the schedule should be 
discussed with the full Commission. The Chair directed the Agent to again update the notice for 
the November 7, 2012 meeting to include a new topic regarding scheduling. While attempting to 
update the notice, the agent erroneously posted a new notice (hereinafter "Notice Revision 3") 
comprised of the same content as the Original Notice. The Agent realized the error and promptly 
updated the notice with the new topic on scheduling and posted the final notice (hereinafter 
"Notice Revision 4") containing all updates and corrections at 10:43 AM. on November 6, 2012. 
Notice Revision 4 contained the following topics that were not on the Original Notice: 
Violation At 120 Cranberry Road: 
E-mail sent to landowner Ron Turowetz on 11/6/2012 regarding his 
stockpiling of stumps, brush, dirt, and debris within 100 feet of a wetland 
4  The Conservation Agent is not a member of the Commission, but functions as staff to the Commission. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
resource area witnessed by Commissioners on 11/1/12. Report on whether 
or not this has since been removed. Do Commissioners want to take further 
action, i.e., issue an Enforcement Order? 
Possible re-scheduling of next regular meeting? Next normally-scheduled 
meeting is for Wednesday Nov. 21, the day before Thanksgiving. Does the 
Commission want to cancel the November 21st meeting and meet on Nov. 
28 or make our next meeting date the regular meeting of December 5, 2012? 
None of the five versions of the notice for the Commission's November 7, 2012 meeting 
included notations indicating the date and time of the posting, and no separate notation of these 
facts appeared with the notices posted on the Town's website. 
During the Commission's November 7, 2012 meeting, the Commission discussed the 
alleged violation at the Property and voted to have the Agent send a formal letter via certified 
mail to the Property's owner. After the vote, Mr. Belbin (the complainant) approached the 
Commission and submitted his complaint directly to the Commission Chair. On the topic of 
scheduling, which was added as an additional topic on Notice Revision 4, the Commission 
discussed and voted to cancel the Commission's meeting scheduled for November 21, 2012. 
During the Commission's December 5, 2012 meeting, the Chair announced in open 
session that the Commission received the November 7, 2012 Open Meeting Law complaint, 
which the Commission then discussed. Following the discussion, the Commission voted to ratify 
its November 7, 2012 vote regarding the Property. 
DISCUSSION 
In his complaint, Mr. Belbin alleges that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law 
when the Commission 1) made revisions to its November 7, 2012 meeting notice, but failed to 
identify on its meeting notice when the revisions were made; 2) discussed matters during its 
November 7, 2012 meeting that were not specifically listed on its meeting notice 48 hours in 
advance of the meeting; and 3) revised the notice for its November 7, 2012 meeting, less than 48 
hours prior to the meeting, to include a topic on schedule changes and then distributed a copy of 
the notice to the members of the Commission. In its response to the complaint, the Commission 
argues that it did not violate the Open Meeting Law, and states that any deficiency in the notice 
for the Commission's November 7, 2012 meeting was by cured by the open discussion and votes 
that occurred at the Commission's meeting on December 5, 2012. We will address each of Mr. 
Belbin's allegations in turn. 
I. The Commission Failed to Conspicuously Record on or with any of its Notices the Date and  
Time the Notices for the Commission's November 7, 2012 Meeting were Posted.  
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post a notice of each meeting, and the 
Attorney General's regulations require that "[t]he date and time that the notice is posted shall be 
conspicuously recorded thereon or therewith." 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b); OML 2011-45; OML 
3 
===PAGE 4===
2013-9.5  The Commission failed to record the date and time of posting on or with any of the five 
versions of the notice for its meeting on November 7, 2012. Recording the date and time enables 
the public to observe that public bodies are complying with the Open Meeting Law's notice 
requirements without requiring constant vigilance. Additionally, it provides this office with 
evidence of compliance with the Open Meeting Law's notice requirements. 
Accordingly, this office finds that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to record the date and time the notice was posted on or with the Original Notice of its 
November 7, 2012 meeting. Furthermore, the four revised versions of the notice for the 
Commission's November 7, 2012 meeting (Notice Revisions 1-4) also did not comply with this 
requirement of the Law. We commend the Commission's efforts to give the public notice of 
topics that arose after the original notice was posted, and encourage other public bodies to make 
similar efforts in the interest of transparency. However, if a notice is revised, the revised notice 
must conspicuously record on or with the notice both the date and time the original notice was 
posted as well as the date and time the last revision was posted.6  We have not previously 
provided guidance to public bodies regarding this requirement for notice revisions, thus we do 
not find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to record the date and 
time the revised notices were posted on or with the four revised versions of the notice (Notice 
Revisions 1-4) for its November 7, 2012 meeting. We acknowledge that the Commission has 
made good faith efforts to comply with the spirit and letter of the Open Meeting Law, and we 
provide this letter as future guidance to the Commission and other public bodies. 
II. The Commission did not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Discussing Topics that were not 
Included in the Meeting Notice 48 Hours Before the Commission's November 7, 2012 Meeting.  
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in emergencies, public bodies "post notice 
of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays," and that the "[n]otice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and 
shall contain the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Thus, a public 
body may only discuss a topic that was not included in the meeting notice if the chair did not 
reasonably anticipate discussion of that topic at least 48 hours before the meeting. See OML 
2012-77; OML 2012-3. 
Here the Commission posted five versions of the notice for its meeting on November 7, 
2012 — the Original Notice posted on October 30, 2012 and four revised versions (Notice 
Revisions 1-4) posted at various times on November 6, 2012. The original notice was timely 
posted more than 48 hours prior to the meeting. At the time the original notice was posted, the 
Chair did not anticipate the need to discuss the violation of Wetland Protections Act at 120 
Cranberry Road. While the discovery of the alleged violation occurred during a November 1, 
5  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
For example, the final version of the notice for the Commission's November 7, 2012 meeting (Notice Revision 4) 
should have recorded on or with the notice a notation substantially similar to the following: 
Posted: 	 October 30, 2012 at 3:54 P.M. 
Updated: 	 November 6, 2012 at 10:43 A.M. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
2012 site visit, more than 48 hours prior to the meeting, the Chair decided that the matter should 
be discussed by the Commission only after being copied on the Agent's e-mail, sent to the 
Property's owner on November 6, 2012. Once the Chair determined the need for a discussion, 
he immediately requested that the notice be updated to include the new topic. The Chair did not 
anticipate the topic for discussion 48 hours before the Commission's meeting. Accordingly, it 
was not unlawful for the Commission to discuss the topic during its November 7, 2012 meeting. 
See OML 2012-77; OML 2012-3. 
III. The Commission did not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Revising the Notice for the  
Commission's November 7, 2012 Meeting to Include a Topic on Scheduling Changes and then  
Distributing that Notice to the Members of the Commission.  
Mr. Belbin alleges that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law in its discussion 
of scheduling changes in two ways by: 1) discussing scheduling changes when it was not listed 
as a topic on the meeting notice at least 48 hours prior to the Commission's November 7, 2012 
meeting; and 2) distributing the revised notice with the scheduling topic among a quorum of the 
Commission prior to Commission's meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body conduct all deliberations during a 
properly posted meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(b). A "deliberation" is defined in relevant 
part as, "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, 
between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; 
provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, [or] 
scheduling information [...] provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. at §18. 
As scheduling is excluded from the definition of deliberation, a quorum of the 
Commission was free to discuss scheduling via any medium of their choosing without noticing a 
meeting. Here, the Chair chose to provide the public with notice of the Commission's 
scheduling discussion. But the Chair did not anticipate this discussion topic at least 48 hours 
prior to the meeting; therefore the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law by adding 
the topic to the meeting notice fewer than 48 hours before the meeting. See Part II above. 
Furthermore, because distribution of a meeting agenda is not deliberation, the Commission did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law by distributing a revised notice with the additional scheduling 
topic. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include on or 
with the notice the time and date of the posting for its November 7, 2012 meeting notice. We do 
not find that this violation was intentional. Additionally, we find that the Commission did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing topics during its November 7, 2012 meeting that 
were not specifically listed on its meeting notice 48 hours in advance of the meeting or by 
discussing scheduling. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law. 
5 
===PAGE 6===
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact me if you any questions regarding this 
determination. 
Sincerely, 
onathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Robert Belbin 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
6 