===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 7, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 119 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
James Donnelly, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
jdonnelly@mhtl.com  
 
Howard L. Greenspan, Esq. 
hgreenspan@greenspanlawyers.com 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorneys Donnelly and Greenspan: 
 
This office received a complaint from Brian DeLacey, on behalf of the Malden News 
Network, on February 22, 2024,
1 alleging that the Malden School Committee (the “Committee”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with 
the Committee on January 22. Attorney Donnelly responded on behalf of the Committee by letter 
dated February 9, and, after an extension of time granted by this office, Attorney Greenspan also 
responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated February 16. The complaint alleges that the 
Committee failed to respond to a January 12 request for meeting minutes made under the Open 
Meeting Law.2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to respond to the January 12 request for meeting minutes. In reaching this determination, 
 
1 All dates are in 2024 unless otherwise stated. 
2 The request for meeting minutes also included requests for other records, including “ preparatory materials and 
documents and exhibits used at the session . . ., corresponding agenda, and every corresponding document which 
was discussed, referenced or referred to in the meeting.” The Open Meeting Law governs requests for meeting 
minutes that are made under the Open Meeting Law; requests for other records, including documents used at a 
meeting, fall under the Public Records Law. See OML 2014-45; OML 2021-134, n.2.; OML 2023-57, n.4. 
Therefore, we decline to review whether the Committee properly responded to a request for records other than 
meeting minutes. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s responses, the request for 
further review,3 the January 12 request for meeting minutes, and the website where the 
Committee posts its meeting minutes.4 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On January 12, the Complainant sent an email to the 
Clerk of the Committee and Mayor Gary Christenson who serves as the Committee’s chair. In 
the email the Complainant requested, among other things, “minutes from School Committee 
meetings held during calendar year 2023 or 2024, in which the contract for / of the 
Superintendent of Malden Public Schools was discussed directly or indirectly, whether meetings 
were held in Open or Executive Session.” The email made clear that the request was being made 
under the Open Meeting Law, not the Public Records Law.  
 
The Committee met on January 18 and reviewed three sets of executive session minutes 
that it had identified as responsive to the request. Specifically, the Committee reviewed minutes 
for executive sessions held on September 11, November 13, and December 4, 2023. The 
Committee determined that some of the executive session minutes should be released to the 
public, and that portions of others required redaction either because the executive session 
purpose remained ongoing or because the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public 
Records Law applied.
5   
 
On January 22, the Complainant filed the present Open Meeting Law complaint alleging 
that the Committee failed to respond to the January 12 request. The Committee explains in 
response to the complaint that it has identified additional minutes that are responsive to the 
request, these include minutes for executive sessions held on April 3, May 1, and June 12, 2023.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The Law further 
provides that “[m]inutes of all open sessions shall be created and approved in a timely manner. 
The minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft form, shall be 
made available upon request by any person within 10 days.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). We have 
consistently explained that even if meeting minutes do not yet exist at the time of a request or if 
there are no responsive minutes, the public body is still required to respond to the requester 
within ten days informing them that the minutes do not yet exist or that there are no responsive 
 
3 The request for further review raises several additional allegations, some of which relate to the withholding and 
redaction of the requested executive session minutes as well as the sufficiency of the minutes, and some of which 
relate to other matters entirely. We decline to review allegations that were raised for the first time in the request for 
further. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(1); OML 2019-76; OML 2012-92. 
4 The Committee’s meeting minutes may be found at https://maldenps.org/school-committee/school-committee-
meetings/. 
5 The Committee explained in its responses that during the December 4, 2023, executive session it was determined 
that the minutes of the November 13, 2023, executive session may have needed to be amended. The Committee also 
explained that, at the time of its response to this complaint, it had not yet finalized the December 4, 2023, executive 
session minutes. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
minutes. See OML 2023-95 (explaining to the Malden School Committee that “if minutes do not 
yet exist at the time of a request, the public body is still required to respond to the request within 
10 calendar days with an explanation of whether the minutes do or do not exist in either 
approved or draft form”); OML 2017-102; OML 2015-173; OML 2013-83; OML 2012-86.  
 
With respect to executive session minutes, a public body may withhold the minutes from 
disclosure to the public for “as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the 
executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). Once the purpose for the executive 
session “has been served, the minutes, preparatory materials and documents and exhibits of the 
session shall be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or 1 or more of the exemptions 
under [the Public Records Law] apply to withhold these records, or any portion thereof, from 
disclosure.” Id. A public body has an obligation to review its executive session minutes at 
reasonable intervals to determine if continued nondisclosure of the minutes is warranted, and to 
announce that determination at the next meeting following such review. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1); 
see OML 2013-56; OML 2015-94.
6 
 
A public body must respond to a request for executive session minutes within 10 days. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). If the public body has determined, prior to the request, that certain 
executive session minutes should be released, it should respond to the requester directly, 
notifying them of the availability of those minutes. If the body has determined that executive 
session minutes should remain confidential because publication would defeat the lawful purposes 
of the executive session, it should respond by stating the reason why the minutes continue to be 
withheld. And if, at the time of a request, the public body has not recently conducted a review of 
the minutes to determine whether continued nondisclosure is warranted, the body must perform 
such a review and release the minutes, if appropriate, no later than its next meeting or within 30 
days, whichever occurs first. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). In such circumstances, the body should 
still respond to the requester within 10 days, notifying the requester that the body is conducting 
this review. See OML 2013-99; 2013-105; OML 2022-200; OML 2022-194; OML 2023-53.  
 
To begin, we note that the Committee makes assertions regarding whether particular 
executive session minutes have been permissibly redacted. The Committee also asserts that, 
unlike open session minutes, it is not required to provide executive session minutes that are in 
draft form in response to a request. The allegation raised in the complaint, and therefore the 
allegation before us, is that the Committee failed to respond at all to the Complainant’s January 
12 request. Therefore, we do not address the propriety of redactions made to specific meeting 
minutes nor the Committee’s assertion that it need not provide executive session minutes that are 
in draft form.  
 
The Committee does not assert that it responded to the Complainant regarding the 
January 12 request for meeting minutes. Instead, the Committee asserts that it complied with the 
Open Meeting Law by virtue of the fact that the Committee posts online its open session minutes 
and executive session minutes that have been approved for release to the public. The Committee 
additionally explains that the minutes posted online are “independently searchable by keyword[] 
and may be downloaded.” We commend the Committee for making its open session and released 
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
executive session meeting minutes readily available to the public online. However, the 
Committee was still required to respond to the Complainant within ten days regarding his request 
for meeting minutes. A public body may respond to a request for minutes by directing the 
requester to where the requested minutes may be accessed online, see OML 2022-205; however, 
in this instance the Committee did not respond within ten days at all. Therefore, we find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law.  
 
The Committee has explained that minutes for executive sessions held on the following 
dates in 2023 are responsive to the January 12 request: April 3, May 1, June 12, September 11, 
November 13, and December 4. After reviewing the website where the Committee posts its 
meeting minutes, we note that all of the above-listed executive session minutes have been posted 
to the website. Some of the minutes contain redactions, but as explained above, the propriety of 
such redactions is not before us on this complaint.
7 Additionally, to the extent redactions are 
made on the basis of the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law, 
review of such redactions falls outside the purview of the Division and should be addressed to 
the Supervisor of Records in the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s office. See OML 2022-195; 
OML 2021-143.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to timely respond to a request for meeting minutes. We order the Committee’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that similar future 
violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. It is our understanding that 
the meeting minutes responsive to the Complainant’s request have now been posted online; 
therefore, we do not order additional remedial action. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
7 The Complainant filed a complaint with our office on May 15 alleging that redactions made to the minutes of the 
November 13 and December 4 executive sessions are improper. That complaint will be addressed in a separate 
letter.  

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
 
 
cc: Gary Christenson, Mayor of Malden and Chair of the Malden School Committee  
(via email: mayor@cityofmalden.org)  
Malden School Committee (via email: sdorai@maldenps.org) 
Denise Corbett (via email: denise@greenspanlawyers.com) 
Carol Ann Desiderio, City Clerk (via email: cdesiderio@cityofmalden.org) 
Brian DeLacey (via email: maldennewsnetwork@gmail.com) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 