===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
May 11, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 92 
 
 
Kimberly A. Rozak, Esq. 
Mirick O’Connell  
100 Front Street  
Worcester, MA 01608-1477 
 
By email only:  
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Rozak: 
 
This office received a complaint from Matthew Joseph on August 30, 2021, alleging that 
the Leicester School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on July 26, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated August 13.  The complaint alleges that 
the Committee i) failed to include sufficient specificity on the notice for the meeting held on July 
6; ii) convened in executive session for an improper purpose; and iii) deliberated outside of a 
properly posted meeting.   
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to identify on 
the meeting notice the individual nonunion personnel that was the subject of the executive 
session.  We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  In 
addition, we reviewed the notice and open and executive session minutes of the Committee 
meeting held on July 6.  Finally, we communicated with you on March 25, 2022, and April 15, 
2022.   
 
 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  The Committee is a five-member public body; thus, three 
members constitute a quorum.  The complainant was employed by the Leicester Schools as the 
Director of Curriculum, Instruction and Assessment. 
 
The Board duly posted notice of a meeting to be held on July 6 at 4:00 P.M.  The notice 
listed five topics, including an Executive Session “to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
negotiations with individual contracts” under Purpose 2.  The notice then indicated that the 
Committee would reconvene in open session and discuss several additional topics, including 
“Reorganization of Central Office.” 
 
The July 6 meeting was held as planned.  After calling the meeting to order, the 
Committee approved a unanimous vote by roll call to convene in executive session pursuant to 
Purpose 2 to discuss strategy with respect to contract negotiations and Committee member Stella 
Richard announced that it would reconvene in open session after the conclusion of the executive 
session.2  The Committee met in executive session for approximately one hour and has publicly 
released the minutes of this executive session.  Specifically, the Committee discussed whether to 
renew the contracts of two employees, the Director of Educational Technology and the Director 
of Curriculum, Instruction and Assessment, or instead eliminate those positions in favor of a new 
Assistant Superintendent position.  
 
The Committee then reconvened in open session for approximately fifteen minutes and 
accepted two donations, approved a job description for a middle school Adjustment Counselor, 
and then briefly discussed and voted by majority vote to “approve the Assistant Superintendent 
for Teaching and Learning position as presented and to eliminate the Director of Curriculum and 
Instruction position.”   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Committee Violated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Identify on 
the Notice of the July 6 Meeting the Nonunion Personnel that was the 
Subject of the Executive Session but Entered Executive Session for a 
Proper Purpose. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session 
for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first 
convened in an open session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into 
executive session, that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the 
 
2 We note that the Open Meeting Law specifically provides that the chair must state the purposes for executive 
session and must announce whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  See 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(b)(3), (4).  However, the chair may delegate the responsibility for making the required statements 
to another individual.  See OML 2020-16.   
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether the open session will reconvene at the 
conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.   
 
The chair of the public body must announce in open session the purpose for the executive 
session, “stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called.”  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b)(3); see also District Attorney 
for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of 
the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only notification 
given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the 
public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”).  This level of detail 
about the executive session topic must also be included in the meeting notice.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b); OML 2016-72.3  
 
A public body may enter executive session to “conduct strategy sessions in preparation 
for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract 
negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”).  When convening 
in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2, a public body must identify the nonunion personnel 
with whom it will be negotiating, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy.  
See OML 2020-21; OML 2017-53; OML 2016-43.   
 
The notice of the July 6 meeting stated that the Committee would convene in executive 
session “to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with individual contracts.”  
During the meeting, the Committee discussed whether to renew the contract of the Director of 
Curriculum, Instruction and Assessment or instead eliminate the position.  The complaint alleges 
that the executive session topic listed on the July 6 meeting notice lacked sufficient specificity 
where it did not “give advance written notice” that the Committee intended to discuss and vote 
on the elimination of the position of Director of Curriculum, Instruction and Assessment and 
establish a new Superintendent position.  The Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies 
to list all tangential topics related to a discussion nor does the law require a public body to 
anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion, only that it identify the 
discussion topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2015-73; OML 
2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38.  Although we find that the Committee was not 
required to identify the specific course of action it ultimately reached during the executive 
session, the Committee should have identified on the meeting notice the individual nonunion 
personnel that was the subject of the executive session, and the Committee Chair should have 
publicly identified the nonunion personnel prior to convening the executive session.  See OML 
2020-30; OML 2013-97; OML 2012-39; OML 2011-56.  The Committee does not suggest that 
inclusion of such information would have compromised the purpose for the executive session.  In 
fact, when the Committee reconvened in open session immediately after, it identified the specific 
nonunion personnel who had just been discussed in executive session when it voted to eliminate 
the Director of Curriculum, Instruction and Assessment position.   
 
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
As to the propriety of the executive session, we find that the Committee’s discussion of 
the contracts fit within the parameters of executive session Purpose 2, as the discussions focused 
on whether it should renew the contracts of both the Director of Educational Technology and the 
Director of Curriculum, Instruction and Assessment.  See OML 2013-184; OML 2013-47; OML 
2011-44.  Contrary to the complaint’s suggestion, we find no evidence that the Committee 
discussed the professional competence of the Director of Curriculum, Instruction and 
Assessment.  Furthermore, we note that while it is clear that professional competence must first 
be discussed in an open session, how that evaluation will factor into a contract or salary 
negotiation strategy may be a suitable discussion for an executive session.  See District Attorney 
for the North District v. School Committee of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 568 (2009); OML 2015-
40. 
 
The complaint also alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to give written notice to the Director of Curriculum, Instruction and Assessment of the executive 
session.4  It is clear that the Committee intended to meet in executive session pursuant to Purpose 
2, “[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to 
conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a)(2).  Unlike executive session Purpose 1, executive session Purpose 2 does not 
grant an individual the right “to be present at such executive session during deliberations which 
involve that individual.”  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(1)(i), 21(a)(2).  Moreover, the Open Meeting 
Law does not require public bodies to provide additional notice of meetings to specific 
individuals or groups of individuals for topics discussed during a meeting.  See OML 2019-17; 
OML 2013-41. 
 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the Committee “failed to receive, consider and vote a 
motion to conclude its executive session” and “vote a motion to move into public session.”  The 
Open Meeting Law does not require that the Committee adjourn the executive session before 
moving into open session.  Rather, the law requires that prior to convening in executive session, 
the Committee must vote by roll call to convene in executive session and publicly announce 
whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  See G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 21(a), (b).  Here, the Committee properly convened in open session, approved a vote by 
roll call to enter into executive session, and announced that it would resume in open session 
following its executive session.  In addition, according to the executive session minutes, the 
Committee moved to adjourn the executive session and then voted by roll call.  The Committee 
then reconvened in open session and discussed the remaining noticed topics.  We find that the 
Committee followed the procedural steps required by the Open Meeting Law during the July 6 
meeting.    
 
 
 
4 The complaint further alleges that the Committee failed to provide an explanation of the grounds for its decision to 
eliminate the Director of Curriculum, Instruction and Assessment position or an opportunity for the Director of 
Curriculum, Instruction and Assessment to review the Committee’s decision in violation of G.L. c. 71, § 41.  The 
Division of Open Government is charged specifically with reviewing complaints to determine compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  Thus, we decline to review, and offer no opinion on, whether any 
actions taken by the Committee could be a violation of some other law or regulation outside the scope of the 
Division’s review.   
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
II. We Find No Evidence that the Committee Deliberated Outside of a 
Properly Posted Meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The law defines 
“deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; 
provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of other procedural 
meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting 
Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.   
 
The complaint alleges that the Chair of the Committee contacted a quorum of Committee 
members prior to the July 6 meeting and discussed the elimination of the position of the Director 
of Curriculum, Instruction and Assessment outside of a meeting.  The Chair acknowledged that 
he contacted Committee members prior to the July 6 meeting.  However, the communication was 
simply to alert members to a change in meeting location.  The complainant has identified no 
specific evidence that the Chair discussed the elimination of the Director of Curriculum, 
Instruction and Assessment position and the Committee denies that any such discussions 
occurred.  As such, we find no evidence that the Chair discussed the Director of Curriculum, 
Instruction and Assessment position during the course of those discussions and find that the 
communications were simply to relay scheduling and procedural information which is explicitly 
exempt from the definition of deliberation under the Open Meeting Law.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; 
OML 2017-85; OML 2017-28.  Therefore, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law in this regard. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to identify on the meeting notice the individual nonunion personnel that was the 
subject of the executive session held on July 6.  We order the Committee’s immediate and future 
compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  As the topics discussed were appropriate for 
executive session and the Committee has publicly released the minutes of the executive session 
held on July 6, we order no further remedial action. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.   
  
 
 
 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Matthew Joseph – By email only:  
 Harry C. Beach, Esq. – By email only:  
 Leicester School Committee c/o Chair Tom Lauder – By email only:    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
 
 
