===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
 
       March 5, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 25 
 
 
Corey J. Burke 
Chair, Oxford School Committee 
4 Maple Road 
Oxford, MA 01540 
 
By email only: cburke@oxps.org 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Burke: 
 
This office received a complaint from Justin Leduc on January 2, 2025, alleging that the 
Oxford School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on November 19, 2024, and you 
responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated December 10, 2024.  The 
complaint alleges that the Committee discussed topics that were not included on the notice for 
the Committee meeting held on October 21, 2024. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
in the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review.  We also reviewed the notice, minutes and video recording of the Committee meeting 
held on October 21, 2024.
1  
 
 
1 A video recording of the Committee meeting held on October 21, 2024, is available at https://reflect-
townofoxfordma.cablecast.tv/CablecastPublicSite/show/1675?site=3. 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
October 21, 2024, at 6:00 P.M.  The notice listed 13 main topic headings, one of which was 
Financial Reports.  The notice then listed three specific item descriptions that further advised the 
public of the topics to be discussed under Financial Reports, which included “Warrant Report of 
Authorized Signer (Proctor/Burke)”, “FY25 Quarterly Budget-update”, and “FY26 Budget 
Timeline and Directive (Vote).”  A meeting packet was posted with the notice; the packet 
included a “Ledger History” which listed a summary of expenditures across all school 
departments for the period of July to October 2024.   
 
The October 21, 2024, meeting was held as planned.  During the meeting, the Committee 
received an update from Matthew Bobola, School Business Administrator and Director of 
Operations, on the quarterly budget for fiscal year 2025, specifically for the period between July 
and October 2024.  As part of the budget update, Mr. Bobola reviewed portions of the “Ledger 
History” and Committee member David Cornacchioli questioned the cost for out of district 
tuition while Committee Member Palmina Griffin raised concerns about the amount of money 
that had been expended on custodial supplies and materials.  Ms. Griffin’s concerns led to a 
broader discussion by the Committee on the maintenance of school facilities and whether school 
facility expenses were paid by the school district or the town.  Mr. Bobola explained that the 
town has historically paid for certain items, such as broken windows and doors, that the school 
district has actually paid this fiscal year and mentioned a facilities maintenance service 
agreement from 2017 that detailed expenses the town would cover, such as issues with HVAC, 
electrical, and exterior doors.  Mr. Bobola explained that currently any school maintenance 
expenditures are discussed with the Director of the Department of Public Works who decides 
whether the school district or town will pay the cost.  Ms. Griffin expressed frustration with Mr. 
Bobola’s predecessor (the current Assistant Town Administrator)
2 and the lack of 
communication and collaboration between the town and school district, and questioned whether 
someone was trying to retaliate against the district.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notic
e of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Id.  The list of topics 
shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35; OML 2013-39.
3  A public body need 
not list each and every detail about a topic, nor anticipate the course of deliberation or the 
outcome of a discussion.  See OML 2022-98; OML 2020-132; OML 2019-134. 
 
2 We note that the complainant is the current Assistant Town Administrator in Oxford. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee discussed two matters, a facilities maintenance 
service agreement and municipal employees, during the October 21, 2024, meeting that were not 
listed on the notice.  We acknowledge that the topics were not specifically listed on the notice 
but rather were discussed during that part of the meeting under “FY25 Quarterly Budget-update.”   
However, we do not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law because a public body may 
discu
ss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 
hours in advance of the meeting.  See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87.  Here, the Chair states that 
he did not anticipate discussion of either matter 48 hours before the meeting.  Moreover, we find  
that the discussions about the facilities maintenance service agreement and municipal employees 
naturally flowed from the discussion of the quarterly budget.  Specifically, during the 
Committee’s discussion of the quarterly budget, Ms. Griffin raised concerns with the amount of 
money expended by the custodial department, and Mr. Bobola brought up the facilities 
maintenance service agreement explaining that certain school facility projects had previously 
been financed by the town’s Public Works Department instead of the school.  Ms. Griffin then 
expressed her frustration with the Town Administrator’s office and its lack of communication 
with the school district and Committee.  Where a public body’s discussion naturally flows from 
its consideration of the posted agenda topic, the notice was sufficient to inform the public of the 
discussion that occurred.  See OML 2018-14; OML 2014-44; OML 2014-38. 
 
Finally, to the extent the complaint alleges that the Committee was required to meet in 
execut
ive session because it discussed a complaint against a town employee, we do not find a 
violation.  The Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to meet in executive session 
but rather provides that, if a public body chooses to meet in executive session, it must do so only 
for one of the enumerated purposes.  One executive session purpose allows a public body to 
enter executive session “to discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, 
rather than professional competence of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, 
or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or 
individual.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1).  Here, when discussing the quarterly budget, the 
Committee mentioned the Assistant Town Administrator, that he used to work for the school, 
and expressed frustration in the lack of communication between the school and town with respect 
to the management and maintenance of school facilities.  Even if this brief discussion related to a 
complaint against the Assistant Town Administrator, which we do not believe it did, the 
Committee was not required to have such discussion in executive session and the subject of the 
discussion has no right under the Open Meeting Law to demand that the Committee do so.  See 
OML 2019-160; OML 2012-32.  As such, the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to meet in executive session.    
 
  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Justin Leduc – By email only:  
Oxford School Committee c/o Helen Coffin, Executive Assistant – By email only: 
hcoffin@oxps.org 
Oxford Town Clerk Michelle Jenkins – By email only: mjenkins@oxfordma.us 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
