===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
Aldo A. Cipriano, Esq. 
277 Main Street 
Marlborough, MA 01752 
December 19, 2016 
OML 2016-175 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Cipriano: 
This office received a complaint from Marnie Hoolihan, dated September 19, alleging 
that the Southborough Zoning Board of Appeals (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 16, and the 
Board responded by letter dated September 6. In her complaint, Ms. Hoolihan alleges that the 
Board deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notices and minutes of 
Board meetings held on June 29 and August 3. Finally, we spoke with the Board's legal counsel 
by telephone on December 7.2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The complaint concerns a large housing development in 
Southborough known as Park Central. On June 23, the Board posted notice of a meeting to be 
held on June 29. This notice listed, among other anticipated items, a hearing on the Park Central 
project. The notice stated that the applicant for the Park Central project had a deadline of June 
30 to file for a comprehensive permit under G.L. c. 40B. The Board convened its June 29 
meeting as planned and discussed the Park Central project. Ultimately, the Board voted to 
continue the hearing until its next meeting on August 3. The Board did not take any vote during 
the June 29 meeting to extend the filing deadline. 
Also on June 29, the applicant filed a request for an extension of time to file the 
comprehensive permit application. The request was reviewed by the Board's administrative staff 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
and signed by the Board chair. The Board chair signed the request, extending the deadline to 
August 31, without consulting other Board members. On July 27, the Board posted notice of its 
August 3 meeting. The notice listed the continued hearing on the Park Central project, although 
the notice now listed the filing deadline as August 31. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be noticed and open to 
the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a), (b). A "meeting" is "a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines 
"deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction^]" Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is a simple majority of 
the members of a public body. Id. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the changed filing deadline must have come as a result 
of deliberation between or among the Board members outside of a noticed meeting. Review of 
the request for an extension of time to file the application by Board staff did not involve 
deliberation between or among a quorum of Board members, nor did the chair's individual 
decision to grant the extension until August 31.3 In its response, the Board stated that no 
deliberation took place between or among a quorum of the Board members. Absent sufficient 
evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body's account of the facts. See OML 2013-133. 
Accordingly, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Southborough Zoning Board of Appeals 
Marnie Hoolihan 
3 To the extent that the complaint alleges that the Board chair lacked authority to make this decision without 
consulting the other Board members, we note that, even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Accordingly, we do not review it. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing 
Authority Board of Commissioners). Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's 
website; www,mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 