===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 26, 2016 
OML 2016-56 
Brian Riley, Esq, 
Kopelman and Paige, PC 
101 Arch Street, 12th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
This office received a complaint from Mark Morin dated January 7, 2016, alleging 
that the North Brookfield Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board does not comply 
with the Open Meeting Law when it acts in its capacity as the Board of Directors for the 
North Brookfield Railroad Company. The complaint was originally filed with the Board 
on or about December 21, 2015, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, to the 
complaint by letter dated December 30, 2015. 
Following our review, we find the Board, acting in its capacity as the North 
Brookfield Railroad Company Board of Directors, is not a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law. In reaching this decision, we reviewed the original complaint; the response; 
and the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed email 
correspondence from you, as well as the North Brookfield Railroad Company bylaws and 
several recent newspaper articles. Finally, we reviewed the notices and minutes from the 
North Brookfield Railroad Company Board of Directors meetings held on September 9, 
2015, September 18, 2015, November 10, 2015, January 22, 2016 and February 12, 2016. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three member public body. The North 
Brookfield Railroad Corporation (the NBRC) incorporated in 1876. At the start, the Town 
of North Brookfield loaned money to the NBRC in return for stock certificates. The 
current status of the Town's stock holdings is unknown because the NBRC re-paid the loan 
to the Town over 100 years ago. From 1876 until 1985, the NBRC owned a 4-5 mile spur 
FACTS 
C: 
===PAGE 2===
between East Brookfield and North Brookfield and leased it to railroad companies. In 
1985, however, its final lease with Penn Central terminated and the rails were physically 
removed from the spur. As a result, the NBRC Board of Directors (the NBRC Board) 
essentially ceased to function. A few years later. Town Meeting voted to have the Board 
"act as" the NBRC Board in order to manage the NBRC assets. The Board has been acting 
in this capacity ever since. According to the NBRC bylaws, the NBRC Board is a body of 
four members, however only the three Board members currently serve on the NBRC 
Board. 
The NBRC still owns the rail bed and the right of way. The NBRC pays local, 
state, and federal taxes. In order to pay its taxes, the NBRC leases a small portion of the 
property to a private entity. In recent years, the NBRC Board has discussed resurrecting 
the rail line with a private investor. Due to the Board's uncertainty about whether the 
NBRC Board is a public body, it has held its meetings in compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law defines a "public body," in relevant part, as "a multiple 
member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or 
legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, 
elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]" G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18. To determine whether a multiple-member entity is a public body subject to 
the Open Meeting Law, there are three factors we consider; 
1. The entity must be "within" government and not excluded from the 
definition of "public body;" 
2. The entity must be a "body" empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a "public purpose," 
Based on this test, we find that the NBRC Board is not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law. See OML 2015-83.' While it satisfies the first and second prongs of 
the test, it does not satisfy the third prong. The Board manages and controls the 
Corporation and only Board members sit on the NBRC Board, thus it is arguably "within 
government." The NBRC Board is indeed empowered to act collectively as an established 
membership of four members. However, the NBRC Board's function is to manage a 
private company, rather than serve a public purpose.2 See OML 2016-3; OML 2015-22. 
Accordingly, we find that the NBRC Board is not a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law. However, given the uncertainty surrounding the Town's stock holdings in 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 We take no position about any conflict of interest issues that could be implicated by the Board's role as the 
NBRC Board as it continues to explore the possible resurrection of the railroad bed in Town. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
the Corporation, the NBRC Board may wish to continue complying with the Open Meeting 
Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. Lhis determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending 
with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Mark Morin 
North Brookfield Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 