===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 14,2014 
OML 2014-38 
Lauren F. Goldberg, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch St. 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Goldberg: 
This office received a complaint from Lauren Walsh (the complainant), dated January 20, 
2014, alleging that the Seekonk Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board amended the posted 
notice and agenda for its October 23, 2013 meeting fewer than 48 hours prior to the meeting to 
include a topic that the Board should have reasonably anticipated more than 48 hours in advance. 
The complaint further alleges that the amended item was insufficiently specific and that the 
discussion which occurred during the meeting went beyond the bounds of the posted agenda 
item. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 20, 2013. The Board, 
through counsel, responded to the complaint in a letter dated December 20, 2013.1 
We reviewed the November 20, 2013 complaint filed with the Board; the Board's 
December 20, 2013 response to that complaint; and the January 20, 2014 complaint filed with 
our office. We also reviewed the posted notice and agenda for the October 23, 2013 and 
December 18, 2013 meetings of the Board. We further reviewed videos of both the October 23, 
2013 and the December 18, 2013 meetings of the Board. Finally, we spoke on the telephone 
with the complainant and counsel for the Board in February 2014. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
because the amended notice and agenda included a topic that the Board Chair's agent anticipated 
48 hours in advance of the meeting. However, we find that the posted agenda item was 
sufficiently specific, and that the discussion which ensued under the aegis of this topic did not 
violate the Law. 
1 For the purpose of clarity, we refer to you in the third person in this determination. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. Previous to the meeting at issue here, the complainant filed 
an Open Meeting Law complaint not discussed in this determination against another public body 
within the Town of Seekonk. The Board of Selectmen, as the Town's chief executive body, 
interacts with Town Counsel to coordinate responses to Open Meeting Law complaints. 
The Town Administrator is responsible for the creation of the notice and agenda for 
Board meetings. In October 2013, there was no permanent Town Administrator. The interim 
Town Administrator, who holds another position with Town government, acted in the Town 
Administrator position only until a replacement could be found. 
Town Counsel spoke with the interim Town Administrator prior to the creation of the 
agenda for a Board meeting on October 23, 2013 to request that the Town Administrator include 
an item in the agenda indicating the Board might vote to empower Counsel to respond to the 
complaint on behalf of the Board. The agenda for the October 23, 2013 meeting was properly 
posted 48 hours in advance of the meeting, but did not include any reference to an Open Meeting 
Law complaint. 
After the agenda was posted. Town counsel reviewed the agenda and, noticing the 
omission, called the interim Town Administrator to request that it be amended to include the 
Open Meeting Law complaint item. On the day of the meeting, October 23, 2013, the agenda 
was amended to include the topic "Resolution of Open Meeting Law Complaint filed by Lauren 
Walsh" under the heading "Discuss other topics not reasonably anticipated by the Chairman 48 
hours before the meeting." 
At the meeting that evening, considerable confusion existed among the Board members 
over the purpose of the agenda item. After much discussion, the Board understood that the 
purpose of the item was to authorize counsel to respond to the complaint on its behalf. The 
discussion both before and after this resolution authorizing counsel to respond touched upon 
other Open Meeting Law complaints, the Open Meeting Law complaint process, and individual 
members of the Board's thoughts on the merit and efficacy of the application of the Open 
Meeting Law. 
This complaint followed. In response, the Board posted in the notice for its December 
18, 2013 meeting the following item: 
"A. Open Meeting Law Complaint Acknowledgment and resolution: 
Open Meeting Law Complaint from Lauren Walsh received November 20, 2013 
concerning an alleged violation on October 23, 2013, and related matters. 
Acknowledge receipt of complaint, consider possible responses thereto, and vote 
to Resolve the same." 
During the December 18, 2013 meeting, the Board considered the same subjects 
discussed during the October 23, 2013 meeting. Additionally, the Board included the agenda 
and minutes of the October 23, 2013 meeting in the minutes of its December 18, 2013 meeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice 
with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2013-168.2 A public body may consider a 
topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice if it is a topic that the chair did not 
reasonably anticipate at least 48 hours before a meeting. See OML 2012-88. Public bodies, 
however, are encouraged not to discuss or vote on items that arise within that 48-hour period or 
during a meeting if the topic can be postponed until a later date and added to a properly posted 
meeting notice. OML 2011-13 
If the chair of a public body delegates responsibility for creating the agenda to another, 
that person acts as the chair's agent. See OML 2013-147; OML 2012-32. Here, the interim 
Town Administrator was acting as the Chair's agent, and reasonably anticipated 48 hours before 
the meeting that the Board would discuss an Open Meeting Law complaint filed by Lauren 
Walsh. The complaint the Board discussed was filed several weeks prior to the Board's October 
23, 2013 meeting. Counsel for the Board had spoken with the interim Town Administrator prior 
to the posting of the agenda and requested that the topic be added. Nevertheless, the topic was 
not included in the original agenda but was a topic of deliberation at the October 23, 2013 
meeting. Given these facts, we find that the failure to post this agenda item 48 hours in advance 
was a violation of the Open Meeting Law. We do not find this violation to be intentional, 
however, and we find that the Board took appropriate remedial action in response to the 
complaint. The Board repeated the discussion and vote regarding this item at a subsequent 
meeting, following the posting of a more detailed agenda item. 
While we applaud the Board for including additional detail about the topic in its 
December 18, 2013 meeting notice, we find that the agenda item included in the amended notice 
for the October 23, 2013 meeting was sufficiently specific. A reasonable member of the public 
would have understood that an Open Meeting Law complaint filed by Lauren Walsh would be 
the subject of the discussion. The Open Meeting Law did not require the October 23, 2013 
amended agenda to identify with the particularity requested here the specifics of the complaint at 
issue, or to anticipate precisely what the Board's discussion would be under the topic. It sufficed 
for the purposes of identifying the complaint that the agenda noted the name of the person who 
filed the complaint. See OML 2013-28; OML 2013-71. We therefore find no violation of the 
Open Meeting Law regarding the amended agenda's specificity. 
Likewise, the conversation that occurred during the discussion of the contested agenda 
item did not amount to a violation of the Open Meeting Law. The discussion naturally flowed 
from the Board's consideration of what the agenda item required and the individual members' 
reactions to the Open Meeting Law. While the Board could have postponed such discussion 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
wvvw.mass.gov/ago/opemTieetmg. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
until it was noticed in a properly posted agenda, such a postponement was not required by the 
Law. The chair could not have anticipated 48 hours in advance the direction the discussion 
would take. We therefore find no violation of the Open Meeting Law regarding the substance of 
the discussion occurring under the amended agenda. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post notice properly for 
a discussion that the Chair's agent reasonably anticipated 48 hours in advance. We order no 
further action, however, because the Board took appropriate remedial action in response to the 
complaint. We find no other violations of the Law in the complainant's allegations. 
We now consider this matter closed. This determination does not address any other 
complaints that may be pending before this office or the Board. Please feel free to call us at 
(617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Mark M. Higgins 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Town of Seekonk Board of Selectmen 
Lauren Walsh 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. BOA, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order 
4 