===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 9, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 160  
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Michelle Kalowski 
Chief Counsel 
Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Kalowski: 
 
This office received a complaint from Representative Timothy Whelan on July 9, 2020,1 
alleging that the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority Fiscal Management and Control 
Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Representative 
Whelan’s complaint was originally filed with the Board on June 8, and you responded on behalf 
of the Board by letter dated June 22.2 The complaint alleges that the Board deliberated outside of 
a properly posted meeting.     
 
 
1 All dates in this determination are in 2020, unless otherwise stated.  
2 We note that it does not appear that the Board properly met to review the complaint before delegating the authority 
to respond to Counsel (for the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person throughout). Although the Open 
Meeting Law does not require a public body to discuss a complaint’s substance in depth before delegating 
responsibility for responding, a public body must “meet to review the complaint’s allegations” and formulate a 
response or meet to delegate that authority. See 940 CMR 29.05(5); OML 2017-96; OML 2012-90. The complaint 
may be forwarded to legal counsel, and counsel may draft a response, prior to the public body meeting to review the 
Open Meeting Law complaint, but the public body must meet to review the complaint before delegating authority to 
respond. See OML 2014-74; OML 2020-96. Finally, we note that Chair Aiello did briefly mention the Open 
Meeting Law complaint during the Board’s June 15 meeting and noted that he had forwarded the complaint to 
Counsel. The complaint was filed on June 8. If Chair Aiello anticipated discussing the June 8 complaint at the June 
15 meeting, the complaint should have been included on the notice for the June 15 meeting in accordance with the 
requirement that meeting notices include a listing of topics the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed 48 
hours in advance of the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when a quorum of the Board 
communicated regarding public business within its jurisdiction without first posting notice for a 
meeting. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, and the request for further review. We also communicated with the Chair and 
Counsel for the Board by email and phone and with the Complainant by email. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body; thus, three 
members constitute a quorum. The Board has broad authority over the Massachusetts Bay 
Transportation Authority (MBTA). Although the Board does not have authority to hire or fire the 
MBTA’s General Manager, it otherwise has full authority over the General Manager. At some 
point in early June, Joseph Aiello, the Board’s Chair, was informed that MBTA buses were being 
used to transport City of Boston police officers to protests against systemic racism and police 
violence so that they could cover the protests. Additionally, Chair Aiello was also informed that 
MBTA buses were being used to transport members of the public who had been arrested at the 
protests.  
 
Concerned by this information, Chair Aiello reached out separately to each of his fellow 
Board members by telephone to see if any of them could confirm whether MBTA buses were 
being used to transport non-MBTA police officers and members of the public who had been 
arrested. Chair Aiello reached all but one member of the Board. From his conversations with 
Board members, Chair Aiello learned that MBTA buses were not being used to transport 
individuals who had been arrested, but were being used to transport non-MBTA police officers. 
His fellow Board members were similarly concerned about MBTA buses being used to transport 
non-MBTA police officers to the protests. Chair Aiello then called the General Manager of the 
MBTA, Steve Poftak, to confirm what he had learned in his discussions with fellow Board 
members and to confirm whether the MBTA was continuing to operate at a lower-than-normal 
service level. 
 
Chair Aiello then formulated a plan for moving forward with respect to the busing of 
non-MBTA police officers. After formulating a plan, Chair Aiello again reached out to his fellow 
Board members by telephone. Again, he reached all but one Board member. Chair Aiello 
communicated his plan to each of the Board members with whom he spoke, and polled each 
Board member as to their position regarding his plan. Chair Aiello explained to his fellow Board 
members that the Board needed to provide the General Manager with a sense of what the Board 
thought with respect to the issue of transporting non-MBTA police officers to the protests. After 
speaking with three fellow Board members, Chair Aiello called the General Manager and shared 
the Board’s directive that MBTA buses be used to transport regular passengers and MBTA 
police officers only, and not non-MBTA police officers or persons who had been arrested.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law states, in relevant part, that “[e]xcept in an 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
emergency, in addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice 
of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays. In an emergency, a public body shall post notice as soon as reasonably possible prior to 
such meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Except when convened in executive session, “all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  
 
A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” 
broadly as any “oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, 
between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id. 
The Open Meeting Law does not carve out an exception to the definition of “deliberation” for 
discussions that do not result in a decision or vote. See OML 2020-93.3 A public body may not 
engage in a serial communication whereby a quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous 
manner outside of a meeting on a particular subject matter within the public body’s jurisdiction. 
See OML 2015-3; OML 2012-84; OML 2011-27; McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 
(2008) (holding that private serial communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law 
and may not be used to circumvent the intent of the law). 
 
The Board states that it did not engage in deliberation when it discussed the matter of 
whether to allow MBTA buses to be used to transport non-MBTA police officers and individuals 
who had been arrested, and how to advise the General Manager with respect to that issue, 
because 1) this was a policy decision “squarely within the realm of authority of MBTA staff and 
did not require a board vote,” and 2) the Board did not have a mutual assistance agreement with 
the Boston Police Department and so the Board was not taking a vote related to any such 
agreement. Additionally, the Board states that it did not engage in deliberation because Chair 
Aiello was careful not to tell any Board member he spoke to what another Board member 
thought or said.   
 
We find that the matters discussed by the Board were within the Board’s jurisdiction and 
that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when a quorum engaged in serial communication 
regarding these matters outside of a properly posted meeting. The Board has broad authority over 
the MBTA and its General Manager. A discussion of whether and how to advise the General 
Manager on a significant issue facing the MBTA clearly falls within the Board’s jurisdiction. 
That the General Manager or MBTA staff could have also independently decided not to allow 
MBTA buses to be used to transport non-MBTA police officers does not remove that matter 
from the Board’s jurisdiction. See OML 2019-119 (finding that the appointment of a town 
accountant was within the Board of Selectmen’s jurisdiction even though it was the town 
administrator who had authority to appoint the accountant, subject to the Board’s approval, and 
the administrator had not yet appointed an accountant); OML 2014-148 (“Because issues relating 
to a new restaurant opening in town could conceivably come before the Board, we find that this 
discussion was within the Board’s jurisdiction and should have taken place during an open 
meeting.”). Indeed, the fact that the Board discussed the matter, took a poll, and then advised the 
General Manager of the Board’s decision regarding the matter, shows that the Board itself 
understood the matter to be within its jurisdiction. The “jurisdiction” of a public body for 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law is not so limited as to include only matters requiring a vote 
of the body, such as approval of a contract.  
 
  Furthermore, whether Chair Aiello avoided telling members of the Board what other 
members of the Board said or thought, at the very least, the Board deliberated via serial 
communication when Chair Aiello communicated his plan to a quorum of the Board, a plan 
informed by his previous communications with a quorum of the Board. See OML 2016-18 
(“Communication on matters within a body’s jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a 
deliberation, even if no other public body member responds.”). Additionally, the process of 
polling Board members outside of a properly posted meeting, as was done here, constitutes a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2016-52; OML 2013-75; OML 2013-76; see also 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(b). Discussing and reaching a consensus regarding how the Board would 
advise the MBTA General Manager regarding the use of MBTA buses for transporting non-
MBTA police officers to demonstrations is clearly a matter within the Board’s jurisdiction and is 
precisely the type of deliberative action that the Open Meeting Law requires be conducted in an 
open and accessible manner.   
 
Finally, we note that the Open Meeting Law contemplates that in emergency situations 
public bodies may not be able to post notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting. The Law provides 
that “[i]n an emergency, a public body shall post notice as soon as reasonably possible prior to 
such meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The Law defines an “emergency” as “a sudden, generally 
unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding immediate action.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18; 
940 CMR 29.02. We make no determination as to whether the circumstances here constituted an 
“emergency,” but note that even in an emergency a public body must post notice as soon as 
possible and comply with all other requirements of the Open Meeting Law, including the 
requirement to allow public access and create meeting minutes, which the Board failed to do 
here. 
  
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a properly posted meeting. We order the Board’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Law’s requirements and note that future similar violations may be 
considered evidence of an intent to violate the law. Additionally, we order the Board, within 30 
days of receipt of this letter, to create meeting minutes capturing the discussions held and 
decisions made through the serial communications at issue in this determination. The Board must 
create these minutes to the best of its ability, using any means available to it, including notes and 
the recollections of Board members. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Joseph Aiello (via e-mail:  
 Representative Timothy Whelan (via e-  
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
