===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
September 10, 2012 
OML 2012 — 90 
Karen Murphy 
Town Administrator 
11 South Street 
Westminster, MA 01473 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Murphy: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. William D. Goodwin on August 1, 2011, 
alleging that the Crocker Pond Recreation Area Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complainant alleges that, although he was ultimately 
allowed to video record the Committee's May 3, 2011 meeting, the Chair told him that he was 
not allowed to take the Chair's picture, nor record what the Chair had to say. The complaint also 
alleges that, at the same meeting, the Committee entered executive session for a purpose not 
authorized by the Open Meeting Law, namely to review resumes for employment, and failed to 
follow the procedural requirements for entering executive session. Finally, the complaint alleges 
that the notice for the Committee's May 3, 2011 meeting was insufficient to inform the public of 
the topics the Committee intended to discuss. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on May 9, 2011. The Committee responded by letter dated May 10, 2011. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law on 
May 3, 2011 by entering into executive session for a purpose not authorized by the law; by 
failing to follow necessary procedural steps to enter executive session; and by failing to provide 
sufficient detail about a discussion topic in the Committee's meeting notice. We find that the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to Mr. Goodwin's ability to 
record its May 3, 2011 meeting. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the May 9, 2011 
complaint filed with the Committee; the Committee's May 10, 2011 response; and the August 1, 
2011 complaint filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice and open and executive 
session minutes of the Committee's May 3, 2011 meeting. 
1 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
The Crocker Pond Recreation Area Committee held a meeting on May 3, 2011. The 
notice for that meeting listed four topics for discussion, including "Discuss the hire 
recommendations made by Karen Murphy." The notice did not include an executive session 
topic. The complainant attended the meeting with the intent to video record the Committee's 
deliberations. At the beginning of the meeting, Mr. Goodwin notified the Chair of his intention 
to record, as required by G.L. c. 30A, § 20(e). The Chair then informed Mr. Goodwin that, while 
he had the right to record the meeting pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, he did not have 
personal permission from the Chair or the other Committee members to use their image. The 
minutes state that "[Chair] Joe Macchia reiterated to Bill Goodwin that although we know that he 
can videotape the meeting, we do not agree that he can use our image anywhere from this 
meeting forward also he cannot use our image anywhere either. Wally Richard, Mike 
Dauphinais agreed with this statement. Joe Macchia stated again that he will never allow Bill 
Goodwin to video tape him." Mr. Goodwin was permitted to record the open portions of the 
meeting in their entirety, including the Board members' images. 
When the Committee reached its last agenda item, the Chair moved that the Committee 
enter into executive session. The motion was seconded and approved by a voice vote. Mr. 
Goodwin was asked to leave the room. Before doing so, Mr. Goodwin asked the Chair if the 
Committee would be reconvening in open session after the executive session. The Chair replied 
that the Committee would adjourn from executive session. The Committee entered executive 
session for 48 minutes to discuss recommendations for two new hires, referred to the Committee 
by Town Administrator Karen Murphy. The executive session minutes, which have since been 
publicly released, show that the Committee discussed two recommended candidates and raised 
questions about the other candidates who may have applied for the open positions. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Committee did not Prevent Mr. Goodwin from Recording its May 3, 2011 Meeting, 
and thus did not Violate the Open Meeting Law.  
After notifying the chair of a public body, "any person may make a video or audio 
recording of an open session of a meeting of a public body, or may transmit the meeting through 
any medium, subject to reasonable requirements of the chair as to the number, placement and 
operation of equipment used so as not to interfere with the conduct of the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(e). 
The Co=ittee allowed Mr. Goodwin to record the open session portions of the May 3, 
2011 meeting. Therefore, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
However, we are concerned that members of the Committee made remarks that can be viewed as 
actively discouraging a member of the public from exercising his right to record an open 
meeting. We caution the Committee against such remarks in the future. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
2. The Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by Entering into Executive Session for 
an Improper Purpose.  
The Open Meeting Law permits a public body to enter into closed, or executive, session 
for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One such purpose is Purpose 8, "No 
consider or interview applicants for employment or appointment by a preliminary screening 
committee if the chair declares that an open meeting will have a detrimental effect in obtaining 
qualified applicants; provided, however, that this clause shall not apply to any meeting, including 
meetings of a preliminary screening committee, to consider and interview applicants who have 
passed a prior preliminary screening." When entering executive session, the chair of the public 
body must publicly state the purpose for the executive session, state whether the public body will 
reconvene in open session or adjourn from executive session, and must obtain the approval of a 
majority of the members of the body by a roll call vote. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). 
During its May 3, 2011 meeting, the Chair moved to enter into executive session. The 
minutes do not reflect which of the ten purposes enumerated in G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a) the 
Committee cited to enter executive session. In the Committee's May 10, 2011 response to the 
complaint, the Committee explains that it entered executive session under Purpose 8 as a 
preliminary screening committee "to discuss the resumes and work applications of two 
applicants to positions controlled by the Crocker Pond Recreation Area budget of which the 
committee is in direct control of." This was not appropriate, for the reasons explained below. 
A public body may create a preliminary screening committee, consisting of fewer than a 
quorum of the full body, to conduct a preliminary screening of candidates. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(8). 1  Such a screening committee may enter executive session to conduct a preliminary 
screening. Id. Once a screening committee has identified qualified applicants as finalists for a 
position, however, the final review of those candidates must be conducted by the parent public 
body in open session. See G.L c. 30A, § 21(a)(8); OML 2011 — 34. 2  
The Committee never created a preliminary screening committee. Rather, it appears that 
the Committee itself reviewed all applications for the two positions.3  The Committee eventually 
narrowed down the applicants to three, which were then sent to the Town Manager. The Town 
Manager selected two of the three applicants whom she thought should be hired and forwarded 
their applications back to the Committee. During the May 3, 2011 meeting, the Committee 
See also the Attorney General's guidance on preliminary screening committees in the Frequently Asked Questions 
section of the Attorney General's website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting:  
May a preliminary screening committee, which meets in executive session under purpose 8 to consider 
candidates for employment or appointment, consist of more than a quorum of the members of the parent 
body? 
No, a preliminary screening committee must consist of fewer than a quorum of the members of the parent body. It 
may contain additional members who are not members of the parent body. For example, a school committee with 
seven members may create a subcommittee to conduct a preliminary screening of candidates for superintendent of 
schools in executive session, and the preliminary screening committee may contain up to three members of the 
school committee, in addition to several teachers and members of the community. 
2  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
3  It is unclear whether the initial review of applications was conducted in open or executive session. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
reviewed the two finalist resumes and applications in executive session. This was not 
appropriate because 1) the Committee was not a preliminary screening committee, thus could not 
utilize Purpose 8 as a basis for executive session, and 2) the preliminary review process was 
complete at this point, thus the Committee's discussion of the two finalist candidates should have 
been conducted in open session. The Committee therefore violated the Open Meeting Law by 
holding this discussion behind closed doors. 
3. The Committee Failed to Follow the Required Procedures for Entering into Executive 
Session during its May 3, 2011 Meeting.  
When entering executive session, the chair of the public body must publicly state the 
purpose for the executive session, state whether the public body will reconvene in open session 
or adjourn from executive session, and must obtain the approval of a majority of the members of 
the body by a roll call vote. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). From the minutes of the May 3, 2011 
meeting, it appears that the Chair did not publicly state the purpose for the executive session. 
The Chair also failed to take a roll call vote of the members before entering executive session. 
Finally, although the Chair initially failed to state whether the Committee would reconvene in 
open session, after prompting by the complainant, the Chair did state that the Committee would 
adjourn from executive session. While the Chair ultimately fulfilled this legal requirement, the 
Chair should have stated whether the Committee would reconvene without having to be asked by 
a member of the public. We therefore find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to follow the required procedures for entering into executive session on this date. 
4. The Committee Failed to Provide a Sufficiently Detailed Notice for its May 3, 2011  
Meeting.  
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post a notice at least 48 hours before 
a meeting, and include in the notice "a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will 
be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The Attorney General's regulations further 
require that the "list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of 
the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). The last topic listed in the 
Committee's notice for its May 3, 2011 meeting was "Discuss the hire recommendations made 
by Karen Murphy." In addition to this topic not being appropriate for executive session in this 
instance, as listed this topic was also not sufficiently specific in accordance with 940 CMR 
29.03(1)(b). The topic should have explained what position or positions the Committee was 
seeking to fill, and should have listed the names of the fmalist candidates under consideration. 
Additionally, the Committee should have listed an executive session purpose in its meeting 
notice if it anticipated entering executive session. 
Finally, we note that the Attorney General's Regulations require that when an individual 
files an Open Meeting Law complaint with a public body, the chair of the public body "shall 
disseminate copies of the complaint to the members of the public body," and that "the public 
body shall review the complaint's allegations." 940 CMR 29.05(3), (5). This requires that the 
chair disseminate the complaint and that the public body meet to review the complaint and 
formulate a response, or meet to delegate that authority. Here, the complaint was filed on May 9, 
2011. The Committee's response is dated May 10, 2011. It appears that the Chair responded on 
behalf of the Committee before it had an opportunity to review the complaint and meet to discuss 
the matter. While we appreciate the Chair's quick attention in responding to an Open Meeting 
4 
===PAGE 5===
Law complaint, we remind the Committee that when it receives an Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the entire public body must review the complaint before issuing a response. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by meeting in executive 
session for an improper purpose during its May 3, 2011 meeting. Additionally, the Committee 
failed to follow required procedural steps for entering executive session, and failed to list a topic 
with sufficient specificity in its meeting notice. 
We understand that, as of August 24, 2012, all of the Committee's members have 
resigned and the Committee's membership remains vacant. We therefore order that, should the 
Committee be reconstituted with new members, each new Committee member be provided with 
a copy of this determination and required to attend a training on the Open Meeting Law. The 
training shall be conducted by an attorney or organization familiar with the requirements of the 
Law and approved by this Office or, in the alternative, the Committee members may review the 
Open Meeting Law training video available at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting . The training should occur within thirty (30) days of the 
appointment of each new member, and each member must certify to this office that he or she has 
attended the training or reviewed the Attorney General's training video. 
We now consider this matter closed. We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the 
parties during this investigation. If you have any questions regarding this letter, or believe any of 
the facts stated are incorrect, please do not hesitate to contact me. 
Sincerely, 
J Vathan Sclarsic 
ssistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: William D. Goodwin 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
5 