===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www. mass, gov/aso 
December 11 2017 
OML 2017-190 
Michael P. Angelini, Esq. 
Bowditch & Dewey, LLP 
311 Main Street 
PO Box 15156 
Worcester, MA 01615 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Angelini: 
This office received a complaint from Tracy Novick on October 27, alleging that the 
Worcester Public School Strategic Planning Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint alleges that the Committee is a public 
body subject to the Open Meeting Law, and that the Committee has failed to comply with the 
law's requirements. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on September 19; 
and the Committee responded by letter dated September 28. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee is not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review. Additionally, we spoke with you by telephone on November 18, and with Ms. Novick 
by telephone on November 18. Finally, we spoke with Worcester Public Schools Superintendent 
Maureen Binienda by telephone on December 5. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. In early 2016, the Worcester Educational Collaborative 
("WEC") and the Worcester Regional Research Bureau ("WRRB"), both private entities, issued 
a report called "The Urgency of Excellence," which urged for the creation of a new strategic plan 
for the Worcester public schools. Several months later, the Worcester School Committee hired 
Maureen Binienda to be superintendent of the Worcester public schools. Following her 
appointment, WEC and WRRB approached Superintendent Binienda about developing a 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise noted. 
===PAGE 2===
strategic plan for the Worcester public schools. Superintendent Binienda endorsed the proposal. 
In June 2017, Superintendent Binienda announced that Worcester public schools would develop 
a strategic plan in partnership with private organizations. 
While the Worcester Telegram and Gazette reported that Superintendent Binienda had 
formed an advisory committee composed of representatives from private groups as well as other 
school staff and School Committee members to lead the project, the Committee and 
Superintendent Binienda deny that she established the Committee. See "New strategic plan in 
the works for Worcester schools," TELEGRAM AND GAZETTE, by Scott O'Connell, June 16, 2017. 
Rather, the Superintendent endorsed its creation, but did not pick its members and does not 
oversee its work. According to the WEC and WRRD, the Committee is funded through private 
grants and operates independently of the school district. Its proposals will be presented to the 
Worcester School Committee and Superintendent, but it is not overseen by them. The 
Committee acknowledges that it does meet with members of the school district, including the 
superintendent. 
DISCUSSION 
The complaint alleges that the Committee is a public body subject to the Open Meeting 
Law. The Open Meeting Law defines a "public body," in relevant part, as "a multiple member 
board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or 
within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]" G.L. c. 30A, § 18. To determine whether a 
multiple-member entity is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, there are three factors 
we consider: 
1. The entity must be "within" government and not excluded from the definition of 
"public body"; 
2. The entity must be a "body," empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a "public purpose." 
See OML 2010-1.2 Here, the Committee clearly serves a public purpose and appears to act 
collectively. However, it does not appear to be a government entity. While the Superintendent 
has endorsed the Committee's activities, it was created by private groups and its members were 
chosen by those groups. It has not been given any authority by the School Committee, nor does 
it use school resources. While strategic planning may be the responsibility of the Worcester 
School Committee, as Ms. Novick argues, the School Committee did not create the Committee. 
Any recommendations the Committee proposes will become public once presented to the School 
Committee, and any School Committee deliberations about its proposal will likely be public. 
However, the Committee itself appears to be a private undertaking, albeit with the support of the 
superintendent. Because the Committee is not "within" government, we conclude that it is not a 
public body subject to the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee is not a public body subject to 
the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this 
determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may 
be pending with our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-
2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: Tracy Novick 
Superintendent Maureen Binienda 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member of a 
body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 