===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
October 21, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 166 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Noemi Kawamoto, Esq. 
Brooks & DeRensis 
74 Central Street 
Natick, MA 01760 
 
nkawamoto@bdboston.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Kawamoto: 
 
This office received a complaint from Roland Milliard on May 15, 2025, alleging that the 
Billerica Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 3, and you responded on behalf of the 
Board by letter dated April 23.
1  The complaint alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a 
posted meeting regarding a request that Board Member Dina Favreau resign from the Board.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, 
the Board’s response, and the request for further review.  We also reviewed minutes of the 
Board’s meeting on March 31 and an investigation report on allegations of misconduct, prepared 
by Discrimination and Harassment Solutions, LLC, dated May 12.  We interviewed Board Chair 
John Burrows2 via Teams on August 28.  We also spoke with Members Michael Rosa and 
Kimberly Conway and communicated via email with Member Michael Riley.3      
 
  
 
1 Unless otherwise stated, all dates refer to the year 2025. 
2 John Burrows was the chair of the Board during all times material to our determination.  He no longer serves as 
chair. 
3 Michael Riley and Kimberly Conway were members of the Board during all times material to our determination 
but no longer serve on the Board.   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  Member Favreau was elected to a three-year term on the 
Board in 2024.  Beginning in late January 2025, she had several confrontational interactions with 
Town Manager Clancy Main.  The first of these concerned Member Favreau’s discontent with a 
memo the Town Manager submitted to the Board regarding a farm’s tax delinquency.  After the 
Town Manager expressed concerns about a proposed “Transparency and Accountability Policy” 
during the Board’s meeting on February 24, Member Favreau confronted him at his office, 
yelling at him and accusing him of “sandbagging” her.  Her arms were flailing as he yelled at 
her, according to one witness.  After this encounter, Town Manager Main began seeking other 
employment, as he felt targeted by Member Favreau.  On March 12, Member Favreau entered 
Town Hall and  questioned Town Manager Main about political signs and various matters that 
concerned the Town’s daily operations.  She also yelled at Chair Burrows about a warrant article. 
 
On the morning of Wednesday, March 19, Town Manager Main gave Chair Burrows 
notice that he intended to resign from his position to take a job with the Haverhill Public 
Schools.  Shortly thereafter, Member Favreau went to the Town Manager’s office at Town Hall, 
demanding to speak with Town Manager Main.  When she encountered Town Manager Main in 
the hallway, she shouted at him and accused him of lying.  She followed him to his office and 
continued to yell at him.  She demanded that the Building Inspector and Board Chair Burrows 
join them at Town Manager Main’s office.  From Mr. Main’s office, she made approximately 
eight telephone calls to Chair Burrows but could not reach him.  Member Favreau was described 
by witnesses as being “on a rampage,” and “unhinged.”  She banged on the counter.  Witnesses 
reported being concerned for their safety and contemplated contacting the police. 
 
During this time, Chair Burrows was meeting with constituents at a Dunkin Donuts.  
When his meeting ended, he saw that he had received multiple phone calls from Member 
Favreau and from Town staff.  As he went to leave the Dunkin Donuts, Member Favreau pulled 
into the Dunkin Donuts parking lot.  Chair Burrows exited the parking lot and Member Favreau 
followed.  Ultimately, Chair Burrows lost the tail by signaling in one direction but turning in the 
other.  Chair Burrows reported the incident to the police. 
 
In the days that followed, word spread in town about Member Favreau’s actions at Town 
Hall on March 19.  Residents reached out to Chair Burrows and asked whether Member Favreau 
could be removed from the Board.  The Chair spoke with several people, including former Board 
members, about options available to the Board.  He was told that Member Favreau could not be 
removed from the Board but could be removed from leadership positions. Thereafter, Chair 
Burrows prepared a Facebook post, asking Member Favreau to resign from the Board.  Although 
the post took the form of a letter, starting with “Selectwoman Favreau” and ending with “Best 
Regards, JB, Chairman,” Chair Burrows denies that he separately sent the letter individually to 
Member Favreau.   
 
As originally published, Chair Burrows’ post stated that he was “writing on behalf of the 
Selectboard of Billerica.”  The post further stated: “After careful consideration and a thorough 
review of the current situation and future needs of our Town, it has been suggested that it is in 
the best interest of the Selectboard to ask for you to resign from your position.  Regardless of 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
your choice, you will be removed from all Chair appointed positions.”  The post concluded: 
“Should you have any concerns or questions regarding this decision, we are open to discussing 
them with you Tuesday March 25
th at 6 pm.”  Shortly after posting, Chair Burrows amended the 
post to state that he was “writing as the Chairman of the Selectboard of Billerica,” not “on behalf 
of the Selectboard of Billerica.”   
 
Chair Burrows has explained to us that he used artificial intelligence to finalize the post 
and that it was the AI which inserted language that he was “writing on behalf of the 
Selectboard.”  The amended post also did not include the invitation to a meeting on March 25 
because Chair Burrows realized that there was not enough time to post the notice for a meeting 
on March 25 in compliance with the Open Meeting Law.
4  Chair Burrows denies that he spoke 
with any of the other members of the Board regarding Member Favreau prior to publishing the 
post.  Members Rosa, Conway, and Riley have also denied communicating outside of a meeting 
about Member Favreau.  We understand that members other than Chair Favreau might have also 
posted to social media suggesting that Member Favreau resign.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when convened in executive session, “all 
meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A “meeting” is 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; . . . .”  Id.   
 
The complainant maintains that language within Chair Burrows’s post confirms that he 
spoke with other Board members outside a meeting, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  Mr. 
Burrows has explained to us that much of the language was not his own but rather resulted from 
using AI to finalize his post.  He revised the language “writing on behalf of the Selectboard of 
Billerica” shortly after posting, to correct the misperception.  He maintains that it was the events 
of March 19, including resignation of the Town Manager and pursuit by Member Favreau, not a 
conversation with his fellow Board members, that prompted his post.  Most importantly, he 
denies that he spoke with any of his fellow Board members outside a meeting about Member 
Favreau.  In March 2025, there were five members of the Board, including Chair Burrows and 
Member Favreau.  Each of the three remaining members have told us that they did not 
communicate with Chair Burrows about Member Favreau or the post outside of a meeting.   
 
The introductory language in Chair Burrows’ post, that he is “writing on behalf of the 
Selectboard of Billerica” is not the only language suggesting that he coordinated with other 
members of the Board prior to publishing the post.  For example, the original post also stated that 
“we are open to discussing” the matter with Member Favreau at a meeting on March 25.  
 
4 See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b) (“Except in an emergency, in addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public 
body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to the meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and 
legal holidays.”)  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Nonetheless, no member of the Board has stated that there was any communication about 
Member Favreau outside a meeting and the Board specifically denies that there was.  Absent 
sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body's account of the facts.  See OML 
2023-121; OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141.5  Mere speculation or conjecture regarding 
deliberation outside of a posted meeting, without factual support, is insufficient to support a 
complaint’s allegations.  See, e.g., OML Declination 10-17-24 (Warwick Selectboard); OML 
2024-14; OML 2023-242; OML 2014-114; OML 2012- 59.  In light of the statements of the 
Board members, we find that Chair Burrows did not communicate with a quorum of the Board in 
preparation of the Facebook post.  Therefore, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. 
 
Although not raised by the complainant, we note our concern regarding the practice of 
posting c
ommunication to a fellow member of a public body to social media.  Social media may 
not be used to facilitate discussion between or among a quorum of its members.  See OML 2018-
145.  Members of public bodies must be careful not to engage in deliberation with other 
members of the same public body over social media platforms.  See OML 2017-192.  See also 
our Frequently Asked Questions regarding social media, https://www.mass.gov/info-
details/frequently-asked-questions-about-the-open-meeting-law#frequently-asked-questions-
about-the-open-meeting-law-deliberation-and-electronic-communication.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,   
  
Matt
hew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc:  
 Roland Milliard (via email:   
Jillian Pavidis, Chair, Billerica Select Board (via email: jpavidis@town.billerica.ma.us)  
Donna McCoy, Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@town.billerica.ma.us) 
 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 