===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
vvww.mass.gov/aso 
June 7, 2017 
OML 2017-90 
New Marlborough Board of Selectmen 
c/o Mari Enoch 
Town Administrator 
807 Mill River Southfield Road 
Mill River, MA 01244 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Enoch: 
This office received a complaint from Tom Stalker on April 3 alleging that the 
New Marlborough Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 
22, and Chair Nathaniel Yohalem responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated 
March 13. The complaint alleges that the notice for the Board's January 24 meeting 
lacked sufficient detail because it did not contain any topics under the heading "Town 
Administrator Updates." 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review.2 We also reviewed the notices of and open session minutes from the Board's 
January 24 and March 20 meetings. Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on May 
26? 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 In his April 3 complaint filed with this office, Mr. Stalker additionally alleges that the Board's March 13 
meeting notice lacked sufficient detail and suggests he could find insufficiencies in other notices. We 
decline to review the allegation regarding the March 13 meeting notice because it was not included within 
the February 22 complaint and the Board has not had an opportunity to respond to it. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3). Moreover, we note that the Division of Open Government does not perform 
broad audits of public bodies. See OML 2013-180. 
3 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On January 19, the Board posted notice with the 
Town Clerk for a meeting to be held on Tuesday, January 24 at 8:00 A.M. The notice 
listed six topics, including "Town Administrator Updates" which did not include any 
description of what the Board anticipated discussing during this portion of the meeting. 
The January 24 meeting was held as planned. Before the meeting began, 
Highway Superintendent Chuck Loring entered Town Hall, spoke with Town 
Administrator Mari Enoch and requested to update the Board. During "Town 
Administrator Updates," Mr. Toring advised the Board that money originally planned for 
two culverts on Clayton Mill River Road could best be used at the intersection at 
Konkapot Road, and that the culvert completed last fall on Clayton Mill River Road went 
over budget. Ms. Enoch then advised the Board that bridge-scoping had been conducted 
by the Department of Transportation on Campbell Falls Road and Norfolk Road, that 
Town Counsel would prepare a warrant article relative to a donation of property by the 
New Marlborough Land Trust, and reminded the Board of a meeting on January 25 in 
Monterey to discuss broadband and a workshop on January 26 in Lenox to discuss 
marijuana legalization. 
On March 16, the Board posted notice with the Town Clerk for a meeting to be 
held on Monday, March 20 at 6:00 P.M. The notice listed nine topics, two of which were 
"Discuss with Highway Superintendent Clayton Mill River Road Project" and "Discuss 
with Highway Superintendent Clayton Mill River Road Culvert." 
The March 20 meeting was held as planned. During the discussions of Clayton 
Mill River Road, Mr. Stalker addressed the Board and voiced his concerns with the 
financial issues of the project and culvert. Mr. Loring advised the Board that the culvert 
may not need to be reconstructed as originally planned and that he will consult with the 
engineering firm. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must 
be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and 
place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed. Id The list of topics shall have "sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03 (l)(b). 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's 
discussion. See OML 2015-35.4 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The complaint alleges that the January 24 meeting notice concerning the topic of 
"Town Administrator Updates" lacked sufficient detail in that it did not provide specific 
topics that the Board would discuss. We understand that under this topic the Town 
Administrator provides status updates to the Board and that these updates are generally 
not pieces of business that Board members anticipate discussing. See OML 2011-23; 
OML 2011-44; see also G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). During the January 24 meeting, the Ms. 
Enoch did just that by reminding the Board of two upcoming meetings and advising on 
the status of a warrant article and bridge scoping. We have been assured that when a 
particular topic requires discussion and/or a decision by the Board that topic will be 
specifically listed on the notice. In fact, the Board listed two topics pertaining to the 
Clayton Mill River Road project and culvert on its March 20 notice. We encourage the 
Chair to solicit a more detailed set of topics from the Town Administrator for the meeting 
notice when the Chair anticipates that the Town Administrator will provide a report. See 
OML 2011-23; OML 2013-111; see also OML 2012-19 ("best practice dictates that the 
Chair make reasonable efforts to ascertain what the Superintendent plans to discuss and 
include all matters that are reasonably anticipated in the meeting notice"). 
In addition, a public body may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the 
topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting. See OML 
2017-2; OML 2013-87. Here, Mr. Loring approached Ms. Enoch shortly before the 
Board convened its meeting on January 24 and requested to update the Board. As such, 
the chair did not reasonably anticipate discussions pertaining to Clayton Mill River Road 
48 hours prior to the meeting. While a public body may consider a topic at a meeting that 
was not listed in the notice if it was not reasonably anticipated at least 48 hours before the 
meeting, we strongly encourage public bodies to postpone discussion of topics that were 
not listed in the meeting notice until the topic may be included in a meeting notice, unless 
the circumstances demand immediate action by the public body. See OML 2011-23; 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending 
with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if 
you have any questions regarding this letter. 
OML 2013-197. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
I 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc; Thomas Stalker 
3 
===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. e. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt 
of a final order. 
4 