===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL ONE ASHBURTON PLACE BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108  TEL: (617) 727-2200  www.mass.gov/ago  
  June 1, 2020         OML 2020 – 63  Maura E. O’Keefe Assistant City Solicitor City of Newton City Hall 1000 Commonwealth Avenue Newton, MA 02459  By e-mail only: mokeefe@newtonma.gov  RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint  Dear Attorney O’Keefe:  This office received a complaint from Attorney Joseph Herlihy of Boston College on January 8, 2020, alleging that the Newton Community Preservation Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on October 22 and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated November 19, following an extension of time granted by our office.  The complaint alleges that the Committee entered into executive session for an improper purpose on October 10.   Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed the notice and open and executive session minutes of the Committee’s October 10 meeting; the open session minutes of the Committee’s November 6 and November 12 meetings; and the open session minutes of the City Council’s December 2 meeting.    FACTS  We find the facts as follows.  The Committee is a nine-member public body.  Its role is to make recommendations for the acquisition, creation and preservation of open space; for the                                                 1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2019. 
===PAGE 2===
2  
acquisition, creation, preservation, rehabilitation and restoration of land for recreational use; and for the rehabilitation or restoration of open space that is acquired.  See G.L. c. 44B, § 5(b)(2). Upon the recommendation of the Committee, a city may take by eminent domain a fee or any lesser interest in real property located in the city if such taking has first been approved by a vote of the City Council.  Upon a further vote by the City Council, a city may expend monies in the Community Preservation Fund for the purpose of paying, in whole or in part, any damages for which a city may be liable by reason of a taking for the purposes of community preservation.  See G.L. c. 44B, § 5(e).  In May of 2016, Congregation Mishkan Tefila, a religious organization, sold 300 Hammond Pond Parkway to Boston College.  300 Pond Parkway consists of 25 acres of land and includes Webster Woods, approximately 17 acres of undeveloped land.    On October 3, Newton Mayor Ruthanne Fuller and the Conservation Committee submitted a proposal to the Committee for $15,940,000 in funding to take from Boston College by eminent domain Webster Woods.  The funding proposal included what the City of Newton determined to be the fair market value of the property, $15,200,000, as well as $725,000 for legal fees associated with the eminent domain taking, and $15,000 for a Conservation Restriction stewardship grant to Newton Conservators.  The Mayor also anticipated that the Friends of Webster Woods would contribute $200,000 towards the acquisition of the property.  The Committee duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on October 10.  The notice included, among other topics, an update from Mayor Fuller on Webster Woods and an executive session to discuss Webster Woods “in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 30A, sec. 21(a) (3) and (6) for the purpose of considering the purchase, exchange, lease or value of Webster Woods and strategy with regard to litigation, if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating or litigating position of the City of Newton regarding acquisition of Webster Woods by eminent domain.”   The October 10 meeting was held as planned.  The Committee heard from Mayor Fuller who explained the proposal to acquire Webster Woods and the amount of funding needed.  Mayor Fuller then reviewed the history of the property, the creation of a Webster Woods Advisory Panel, and her efforts to work with Boston College to acquire the land.  The Committee then discussed the remaining noticed open session topics, including a public hearing on the rehabilitation and improvement of Pigeon Hill Trail, the future funding for Newton’s Community Preservation program, and approval of meeting minutes.  Finally, the Committee unanimously voted by roll call to enter into executive session “for the purpose of considering the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property at Webster Woods and strategy with regard to litigation” as an open meeting “might have a detrimental effect on the negotiating or litigating position of the City of Newton regarding acquisition of Webster Woods by eminent domain.”  During the executive session, the Committee discussed the overall funding of the project, including a financing structure for repayment of funds, the ground rules for a public hearing on November 6, and proposed voting procedures for the Committee’s November 12 meeting if the Committee approved the funding proposal.  During a November 6 meeting, the Committee held a public hearing regarding Webster Woods.  The Committee first received a presentation from the Newton Chief Environmental 
===PAGE 3===
3  
Planner and the Chair of the Webster Woods Advisory Panel who highlighted the site’s natural features and history, reviewed the community support and funding sources for the proposed acquisition, and outlined a timeline for the acquisition of the property.  The Committee then heard from 25 individuals, including a member of the City Council, Friends of Webster Woods, and the Newton Conservators; a representative of Newton youth athletics and Boston College; and numerous Newton residents.  The Committee then closed the public hearing.  During a November 12 meeting, the Committee reviewed the comments it had received during the November 6 public hearing.  The Committee then discussed the impact that the amount of funds expended for the taking of Webster Woods would have on the availability of funds for future projects; the lack of parking and public access to Webster Woods especially for those who don’t live within walking distance; and possible interest rates over a 30 year repayment period.  The Committee then voted by a majority vote to recommend that “the City of Newton take in fee, by eminent domain, for open space purposes” Webster Woods and that the “City Council authorize the treasurer to borrow $15,000,000” for a period of 30 years; that $15,000 be appropriated for a grant to the Newton Conservators to “hold the conservation restriction” on Webster Woods; and that $725,000 be appropriated “for legal services and other costs required for the eminent domain taking” of Webster Woods.    During a December 2 meeting, the City Council voted and approved the taking in fee, by eminent domain, the approximately 17 acres of Webster Woods and authorized the City Treasurer to borrow $15,000,000 for a period of 30 years for the acquisition of Webster Woods.  The Council further voted and approved the appropriation of a $15,000 grant to the Newton Conservators for costs associated with holding the conservation restriction and the appropriation of $725,000 for legal costs associated with the acquisition of Webster Woods.  DISCUSSION  The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes, provided that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for the executive session, “stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.”  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary . . . because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”).  One permissible reason to convene in executive session is “to discuss strategy with respect to . . . litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the . . . litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.”  G.L. c. 30A,   § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).  This purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with respect to litigation that is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely; the mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3.  See Doherty v. School Committee of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Perryman v. School Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. 
===PAGE 4===
4  
Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-05.2  A public body’s discussions with its counsel do not automatically fall under Purpose 3 or any other executive session purpose.  See Plymouth Dist. Atty v. Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629 (1985); OML 2019-161; OML 2012-55.  To convene an executive session under Purpose 3, a public body must have a litigating position to protect.  See OML 2019-164; OML 2012-116.  Another permissible reason for a public body to convene in executive session is “to consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) (“Purpose 6”).  Purpose 6, narrowly construed, permits a public body to meet in executive session to protect its negotiating position when seeking to purchase, exchange, or lease real estate, or to discuss the value of real estate where it has a negotiating position relative to that property.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6); Allen v. Board of Selectmen of Belmont, 58 Mass. App. Ct. 715, 719-721 (2003); OML 2019-143; OML 2016-50.  Purpose 6 is intended to preserve confidentiality in negotiating the value of the property to be purchased, exchanged or leased to avoid putting the public body at a disadvantage in its negotiations for the property.  See District Attv. for the Plymouth Dist. v. Board of Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 633 n.5 (1985); OML 2019-10; OML 2016-50.  The complaint challenges the propriety of the Committee’s October 10 executive session discussions.  Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Committee convened in executive session for an improper purpose because the Committee had no “deliberative or decision-making role in determining whether to take [Webster Woods], the legal procedure required to take or in the amount of money to be paid in just compensation” and thus no litigating position to protect.  Moreover, the complaint alleges that the purchase price was disclosed on October 3 when the Mayor filed the proposal for funds with the Committee and therefore the Committee had no negotiating position to protect.  The Committee argues that the executive session was proper because the discussions involved “the value of Webster Woods” and “the funding of the taking of Webster Woods” involved an imminent threat of litigation.   We need not decide here whether the Committee had a litigating or negotiating position to protect because we find, as a threshold matter, that the Committee’s discussions in executive session were not about litigation or the purchase or value of real property.  Rather, from our review of the executive session minutes, we find that the Committee discussed the overall funding of the project, including a financing structure involving bonds for repayment of funds.  The minutes, as written, do not include a discussion of the specific value of the Webster Woods property.  Moreover, the remaining discussions pertained to the Committee’s procedures and “ground rules” for the public hearing scheduled on November 6, and the procedures for voting during the Committee’s November 12 meeting if the Committee were to approve the funding, including the separate motions and votes the Committee should take for each of the separate funding requests included in the Mayor’s proposal.  Since the Committee’s discussions did not relate to either litigation or the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property, we find that the Committee entered executive session without a proper purpose on October 10.  See OML 2020-14.  We therefore find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law and we order                                                 2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 5===
5  
the Committee to release to the public the October 10 executive session minutes.  The Committee may not redact or withhold the minutes in any way.  See G.L c. 30A, § 22(f) (the minutes of any executive session may be withheld from disclosure to the public as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session; provided, however, that the executive session was held in compliance with the Open Meeting Law); District Attv. for Plymouth Dist. v. Bd. of Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 634 (1985) (“We view [the Open Meeting Law] as a statutory public waiver of any possible privilege of the public client in meetings of governmental bodies except in the narrow circumstances stated in the statute.”); OML 2019-164; OML 2017-23; OML 2015-120.   CONCLUSION  We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by meeting in executive session on October 10 without a proper purpose.  We order immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  Additionally, we order the Committee to publicly release its October 10 executive session meeting minutes.3       We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.          Sincerely,           KerryAnne Kilcoyne        Assistant Attorney General        Division of Open Government   cc:   Gustavo Ribeiro, Esq. – By e-mail only: ribeirog@gtlaw.com  Newton Community Preservation Committee – By e-mail only:  communitypreservation@newtonma.gov     This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.                                                  3 The Committee must notify the Attorney General in writing of its compliance with the order to publicly disclose the executive session minutes within 30 days of receipt of this letter.  See 940 C.M.R. 29.07(4).  
