===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 31,2017 
OML 2017-135 
William Kenney 
Chair, Fall River Redevelopment Authority 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Kenney: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on May 27, alleging that the 
Fall River Redevelopment Authority Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about May 
2, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated May 24.2 In his complaint, Mr. 
Higgins alleges that the Board did not adequately accommodate members of the public during 
its May 2 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to provide the public with adequate access to its May 2 meeting. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the complaint, and 
the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed portions of 
recordings of the Board's March 23 and May 2 meetings,3 as well as photographs provided to 
us by the Board. Finally, we spoke by telephone with Board Chair William Kenney and 
resident CJ Ferry on July 11, and with Fall River City Council President Shawn Cadime on 
July 25, all of whom were present for the May 2 meeting. 
We find the facts as follows. On March 23, the Board convened a meeting at the 
request of the mayor. During that meeting, the mayor proposed terminating the Board's 
contract with the Fall River Office of Economic Development ("FROED"), a non-profit 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise indicated. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
3 Available at http://frgtv.fredtv.us/. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
organization that provides administrative services to the Board, and instead consider hiring its 
own staff with assistance from a proposed city-run economic development department. This 
meeting, which began in the Hearing Room, drew a larger-than-usual crowd. All of the seats 
in the auditorium-style room were occupied and at least fifteen people stood in the open 
doorways of a partial wall, located on a mezzanine in the back of the room. At least one 
individual sat on the steps leading down into the floor of the room. Following the mayor's 
30-minute presentation, the Board granted a request to move from the Hearing Room to the 
City Council chambers to accommodate the audience. The meeting continued for over an 
hour in the City Council chambers before concluding. 
The Board then convened a meeting on May 2 to continue this discussion with the 
mayor, representatives from FROED and the public. Hours before the meeting, Fall River 
City Council President Shawn Cadime, who had attended the March 23 meeting, asked the 
City Clerk to inform the Board that the City Council Chambers were available to the Board 
again that evening. The Board declined the offer and convened the meeting in the Hearing 
Room. Mr. Cadime attended the meeting and offered the City Council Chambers to Chair 
Kenney again at the start of the meeting. Chair Kenney declined this offer and the 
approximately two and one-half hour meeting remained in the Hearing Room. Similar in size 
to the March 23 meeting, all of the seats in the room were occupied, with the exception of 
several seats in the front row, which the Board occupied during the mayor's 30-minute 
presentation. Approximately 10-15 individuals stood in the open doorways on the mezzanine 
in the back of the room. At several points in the meeting, members of the audience asked the 
Board to speak up. The Board made attempts to raise their voices, but Chair Kenney was the 
only Board member with a microphone. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be 
physically present, as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the 
public body. See OML 2015-38; OML 2014-3; OML 2013-189; OML2012-66.4 
Public bodies must make reasonable accommodations for larger-than-usual crowds. 
See OML 2016-54; OML 2012-66. We appreciate the difficulty a public body faces in 
anticipating whether any given meeting will attract a crowd. However, when a public body 
learns in advance that a meeting is expected to draw a particularly large crowd, that body 
should make reasonable efforts to accommodate all people who wish to witness the 
discussion, either by moving the meeting to a larger space, if possible, or by streaming a live 
video broadcast outside of the meeting room. See OML 2016-111; OML 2015-92. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website; 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
During its prior meeting on March 23, the Board had granted a request to relocate the 
meeting to accommodate the larger-than-usual audience that had attended to observe the 
mayor's proposal to the Board. Based on the large audience at this prior meeting, the Board 
should have anticipated a similar crowd for its May 2 meeting during which the Board 
continued a discussion of that same topic with the mayor and other officials, as well as with 
members of the public. Accordingly, the Board should have made efforts to secure a larger 
room at the time that the meeting notice was posted. Or, in the alternative, the Board should 
have ensured that the entire audience could both observe and hear the discussion, either by 
requesting adequate amplification or by streaming a live video broadcast of the meeting 
outside of the room. Instead, by holding it in the Hearing Room with one sole microphone, 
audience members repeatedly had to ask the Board to speak up. Accordingly, the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to provide the public with adequate access to this 
meeting. We further note that the Board declined a last-minute offer to move the meeting to a 
larger space in the same building at City Hall—the City Council Chambers—which was 
available to it. See OML 2012-66. The City Council Chambers would have provided a seat 
to everyone in attendance and microphones to all of the Board members. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to provide the public with adequate access to its May 2 meeting. We order 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that future similar 
conduct may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
M 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
John Coughlin, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 