===PAGE 1===
 THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
1 
 
March 25, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 42 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Lauren Goldberg, Esq. 
KP Law 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Goldberg: 
 
This office received one complaint each from David Atkins and Christopher Pfaff, 
alleging that the Westwood Planning Board (the “Board”), and specifically Board members 
Brian Gorman, Deborah Conant, and William Delay, violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 Mr. Atkins and Mr. Pfaff are also members of the Board. Both complaints were 
originally filed with the Board on February 5, 2020.2 After being granted an extension of time to 
respond by our office, you responded to both complaints on behalf of the Board by letter dated 
March 25. Together, the complaints allege that 1) Mr. Gorman, Ms. Conant, and Mr. Delay 
deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting; and 2) the Board discussed a topic that had not 
been included on the notice for its January 28 meeting, but which the Chair anticipated would be 
discussed.  
 
We appreciate the patience of Mr. Atkins and Mr. Pfaff while we conducted our 
investigation. Following our investigation, we do not find that the Board, Mr. Gorman, Ms. 
Conant, or Mr. Delay violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the Board’s response, the requests for further 
review, the meeting notice for the Board’s January 28 meeting, video recordings of relevant 
Board meetings,3 and responses from Mr. Gorman, Ms. Conant, and Mr. Delay to requests for 
documents, including email communications. We also conducted phone interviews with Mr. 
 
1 Mr. Gorman and Mr. Delay are no longer members of the Board. 
2 All dates in this determination are in 2020, unless otherwise stated.  
3 Recordings of the Board’s meetings may be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/c/WestwoodMediaCenterProgramming/featured.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
  
Gorman, Ms. Conant, and Mr. Delay, and communicated by phone and email with Mr. Atkins 
and Mr. Pfaff. Finally, we communicated with Special Counsel representing the Board with 
respect to the Open Meeting Law complaints,4 as well as counsel for Mr. Gorman and counsel 
for Ms. Conant, whom they each had retained privately.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body; therefore, three 
members constitute a quorum. On January 21 the Board held a meeting during which it discussed 
nine proposed warrant articles relating to zoning bylaws and the zoning map. During this 
meeting, the Board voted to withdraw four of the proposed warrant articles, including warrant 
articles related to energy efficiency, affordability, a temporary moratorium on residential 
construction, and open space residential development. Throughout the meeting, Town Counsel, 
Patrick Ahearn, advised the Board on the warrant articles under consideration. At times some 
Board members disagreed with Attorney Ahearn’s advice. During discussion of the warrant 
article related to affordability, Ms. Conant inquired whether the Board could seek an opinion 
from outside counsel; Attorney Ahearn responded that that was possible. Attorney Ahearn 
expressed concern that the Board did not have time to draft a sound warrant article before the 
upcoming Town Meeting, and he encouraged the Board to create a subcommittee, on which he 
offered to serve, to explore creating an affordability requirement.     
 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on January 28. The notice included one 
substantive topic: “The Planning Board will discuss zoning amendments [sic] articles for Annual 
Town Meeting prior to attending in [sic] the Finance and Warrant Commission’s meeting.” The 
Board convened its meeting on January 28. At the time of the January 28 meeting, Mr. Gorman 
was Chair of the Board. At the beginning of the meeting, after Mr. Gorman made some 
introductory remarks, Ms. Conant requested permission to speak. Mr. Gorman granted her 
request. Ms. Conant then read a prepared statement explaining that she was dissatisfied with the 
advice Attorney Ahearn had provided during the January 21 meeting with respect to the 
withdrawal of the four proposed warrant articles.  
 
 At the conclusion of her prepared statement, Ms. Conant moved that the Board retain 
Luke Legere of the law firm McGregor and Legere as outside counsel and that the Board issue 
an initial retainer deposit in the amount of $10,000. Mr. Delay then asked Ms. Conant if she had 
made a motion. Ms. Conant confirmed that she had made a motion, and Mr. Delay then seconded 
the motion. Immediately thereafter, Mr. Gorman announced that there was a motion and a 
second and called for a vote. Mr. Gorman, Ms. Conant, and Mr. Delay voted in favor of the 
motion. Mr. Atkins and Mr. Pfaff voted against the motion. Approximately one and a half 
minutes elapsed from the time Ms. Conant began her prepared statement to the conclusion of the 
vote; there was no Board discussion regarding Ms. Conant’s statement or motion to retain 
outside counsel. After the vote, Mr. Atkins and Mr. Pfaff expressed shock and confusion at what 
had just occurred; inquired whether the Board had just voted to spend $10,000 on outside 
counsel; and noted that the Board did not have a budget or authority to hire counsel.  
 
    
 
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
  
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that, except in limited circumstances, 
“all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public,” and that deliberations occur only 
during a properly noticed meeting. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(a). A public body must, except in an 
emergency, “post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). Notices must contain the date, time, and place of the meeting, as well as a list of topics the 
chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting. Id. A public body may discuss a 
truly unanticipated topic at a meeting, although the Attorney General strongly recommends that 
public bodies, as a matter of best practice, postpone discussion and action on topics that are 
controversial or may be of particular interest to the public if the topic was not listed in the 
meeting notice and can wait until a subsequent meeting. See OML 2020-172; OML 2019-131; 
OML 2018-119.5 
 
 The complaints allege that Mr. Gorman, Ms. Conant, and Mr. Delay deliberated outside 
of a properly posted meeting regarding hiring outside counsel. In support of this allegation, Mr. 
Atkins and Mr. Pfaff assert that because the topic of hiring outside counsel was not included on 
the meeting notice, and because the motion to retain Attorney Legere for $10,000 passed very 
quickly and without any discussion, the members who voted in favor of the motion must have 
communicated regarding this topic prior to the meeting.  
 
Ms. Conant, Mr. Gorman, and Mr. Delay all deny that they communicated in any way 
with any other member of the Board outside of a meeting regarding retaining outside counsel. A 
review of emails that Board members provided to our office did not reveal any improper 
deliberation by email. Furthermore, Ms. Conant explained that she wished to retain outside 
counsel because she felt Attorney Ahearn had not provided adequate support on the proposed 
warrant articles for Town Meeting, and she was seeking another opinion on the four warrant 
articles the Board had voted at the January 21 meeting to withdraw. Ms. Conant further 
explained that when she asked at the January 21 meeting whether the Board could consult with 
outside counsel, she understood Attorney Ahearn’s response to be permission to do so. She also 
explained that she had heard Attorney Legere speak before and had been impressed, and that she 
understood the Town had hired him in the past.  
 
Mr. Gorman explained that he did not know Ms. Conant was going to raise the issue of 
hiring outside counsel at the January 28 meeting. Although he did not know Ms. Conant was 
going to move to retain Attorney Legere as outside counsel for $10,000, Mr. Gorman explained 
that he voted in favor of the motion because he thought it made sense for the Board to hire 
outside counsel to advise it in the future on any number of topics, including several proposed 
bylaws. Mr. Gorman further explained that he knew of Mr. Legere by reputation and that he 
thought $10,000 seemed like a reasonable retainer for a lawyer. Similarly, Mr. Delay explained 
that he did not know that Ms. Conant was going to discuss hiring outside counsel at the January 
28 meeting, but that the idea of hiring outside counsel had been raised at the Board’s January 21 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
  
meeting. Mr. Delay explained that although at the time he voted to retain Attorney Legere for 
$10,000 he was not familiar with Attorney Legere, he assumed Ms. Conant was familiar with 
Attorney Legere’s qualifications. 
 
We have stated in prior determinations that agreement without substantive discussion 
among public body members or even the lack of substantive discussion prior to a vote is 
insufficient to support the inference that those members deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. 
See OML 2020-7; OML 2017-125; OML 2017-93. We acknowledge that the circumstances of 
the vote could lend an appearance that Board members had communicated prior to the January 
28 meeting regarding hiring outside counsel; however, following our investigation, we do not 
find evidence of any such deliberation. See OML 2014-33; OML 2018-50. Similarly, we do not 
find evidence that Mr. Gorman anticipated that the Board would discuss hiring outside counsel, 
such that the matter should have been included on the notice for the January 28 meeting. See 
OML 2020-172. Therefore, we do not find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.  
Nonetheless, we remind the Board that the Attorney General recommends that public bodies 
postpone discussion and action on unanticipated topics not listed on a meeting notice if those 
topics can wait until a subsequent meeting.  
 
 Finally, we address the Board’s review of and response to the Open Meeting Law 
complaints. The response letter authorized by the Board in no way responded in substance to the 
allegations presented in the complaints. Instead, the letter outlined the mechanical steps the 
Board took in reviewing the complaints, including inquiring of Mr. Atkins and Mr. Pfaff whether 
they had any evidence that Mr. Gorman, Ms. Conant, and Mr. Delay privately communicated 
about hiring outside counsel. A review of the video recordings of the Board’s March 4 and 17 
meetings, at which the Board reviewed the complaints and then the draft response letter, shows 
that, on advice of private counsel for one of the Board members and over the advice of Special 
Counsel who had been hired to respond to the Open Meeting Law complaints, the Board chose 
not to address the allegations in the complaints. Instead, the Board determined that it was not 
obligated to provide a substantive response to the allegations of the complaint; that it was Special 
Counsel’s job to prepare a written response on behalf of the Board despite having been provided 
no guidance as to the Board members’ positions on the allegations; and that it would be the 
Attorney General’s job, not the Board’s responsibility, to figure out what had occurred and 
whether there was any merit to the allegations of deliberation outside of a meeting. To the 
contrary, the administrative Open Meeting Law complaint process—whereby a complainant files 
a complaint directly with the public body; the public body reviews the complaint, responds, and 
takes remedial action as deemed appropriate; and only if the complainant remains unsatisfied is 
the complaint filed with the Attorney General for review and investigation—is intended to 
enable public bodies to investigate and resolve their own complaints whenever possible. The 
Board’s unusual response to the complaints, and its unwillingness to respond substantively to the 
allegations, prevented any possibility of meaningful resolution of the complaints prior to our 
office’s involvement and investigation. In the future, the Board should review Open Meeting 
Law complaints in good faith and respond to the allegations raised.    
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
  
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we do not find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office 
or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: David Atkins, Chair of the Westwood Planning Board (via e-mail: 
 
 Christopher Pfaff, Vice Chair of the Westwood Planning Board (via e-mail: 
 
Thomas Ralph, Esq., Counsel for Deborah Conant (via e-mail: 
 
Tom O’Loughlin, Esq., Counsel for Brian Gorman (via e-mail:  
Ernest Horn, Esq., Counsel for Brian Gorman (via e-mail:  
William Delay (via e-mail:  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
