===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.niass.gov/ago 
July 31, 2018 
OML 2018-114 
Mark E. Rumley, Esq. 
Medford City Solicitor 
Law Department 
City Hall - Room 206 
85 George P. Hassett Drive 
Medford, MA 02155 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Rumley: 
This office received a complaint from Joseph Viglione on March 16, alleging that the 
Medford City Council (the "Council") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 
The complaint was originally filed with the Council on February 8 and you responded, on behalf 
of the Council, by letter dated February 23. Specifically, the complaint alleges that one member 
of the Council deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting, and that the Council restricted 
public participation during its February 6 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Council's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed 
the notice of, and open session minutes from, the Council's February 6 meeting, as well as a 
video recording of that meeting.2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Council is a seven-member public body; thus four 
members constitute a quorum. During a February 6 meeting, the Council discussed a permit 
parking study, hiring a field engineer for the Eversource Project, and installing a traffic light at 
the intersection of Riverside Avenue and Freedom Way; considered a citizen request to 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018. 
2 The video recording is available at https://www.youtubc.com/watch?v=24Iq4mpzUWI. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
participate in the Medford Conversation Series; congratulated a couple on their 50th wedding 
anniversary; and held a moment of silence for three citizens who recently passed away. 
The Council then discussed, for the next three hours, Community Electrical Aggregation. 
The Council heard from Martha Grover, Energy Efficiency Manager in the City of Melrose, 
Patrick Roche of the Metropolitan Area Planning Council, and Alicia Hunt, Medford's Director 
of Energy and Environment, who gave a power point presentation explaining aggregation and 
how to educate residents. The Council then heard from over 20 residents, including the 
complainant. 
Shortly after the conclusion of the power-point presentation. Councilor Adam Knight 
stepped out of the meeting room and spoke with two individuals. When the complainant 
addressed the Council during a period designated for public comment on the topic of municipal 
aggregation, he asked why Councilor Knight left the meeting and further asked him to clarify a 
statement he overheard the Councilor make regarding rescinding a vote. Councilor Frederick 
Dello Russo, who was acting chair at that time, suggested that the question involved hearsay and 
may not be appropriate because the topic then under discussion was aggregation. Councilor 
Knight responded to the complainant's question by stating that he did "not have any idea what he 
was talking about." Councilor Dello Russo then thanked the complainant for his presence and 
welcomed him "to present on municipal aggregation." The complainant spoke for approximately 
two more minutes without interruption. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Council of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction." Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is 
a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id. 
The complaint alleges that Councilor Knight secretly deliberated with two individuals 
about municipal aggregation when he stepped outside of the meeting room during the Council's 
February 6 meeting. The two individuals with whom Councilor Knight spoke were not members 
of the Council. Because the communication was between one Council member and two 
individuals not on the Council, and which did not otherwise reach a quorum of the Council, the 
communication did not constitute deliberation, even if an opinion was expressed. See OML 
2017-199; OML 2017-69; OML 2015-77; OML 2011-52.3 As such, we find no violation of the 
Open Meeting Law. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The complainant also alleges that the Council did not allow him to ask questions during 
the February 6 meeting.4 The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow 
public participation in its meetings, but rather provides that "[n]o person shall address a meeting 
of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, 
be silent." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g). The Open Meeting Law therefore gives discretion to the chair 
of a public body to determine who may speak or otherwise participate at a meeting, and to set 
limits on public participation. See OML 2014-23; OML 2013-64; OML 2012-59. As it is within 
the chair's discretion to limit public participation during a meeting, he did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by doing so here. However, we encourage public bodies to allow public 
participation whenever possible. See OML 2015-12; OML 2014-129; OML 2012-59. We note 
that Councilor Knight did respond to the complainant's question and that the Council did not 
further interrupt the complainant while he was speaking about aggregation. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
cc; Joseph Viglione 
Medford City Council 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 We offer no opinion on whether the Council's restriction of the complainant's question is a violation of some other 
law or regulation outside the scope of the Division's review. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 