===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 22, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 96 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Latrina Denson 
President, Pioneer Valley Performing Arts  
Charter Public School Board of Trustees 
 
Ldenson@pvpa.org  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Latrina Denson: 
 
This office received a complaint from Emily Pfeiffer on March 16, 2026, alleging that the 
Pioneer Valley Performing Arts Charter Public School Board of Trustees (the “Board”) violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the 
Board on February 13, 2026.  You responded to the complaint on behalf of the Board on March 
4, 2026.
1  The complaint alleges that the Board improperly deliberated via email during a 
meeting on November 21, 2025.2    
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed minutes 
of a meeting the Board held on November 21, and emails you sent to other Board members 
during the meeting.
3  Finally, we reviewed a partial transcript of the executive session held on 
November 21. 
 
 
 
1 The Board is again reminded that the Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, the 
public body review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the complainant a 
response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint, 
the response and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).   
2 Unless stated otherwise, all dates hereinafter refer to the year 2025. 
3 Hereinafter, you are referred to in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On November 19, the Board posted notice of a meeting to 
be held remotely on November 21 at 1:00 p.m.  The November 21 meeting was called to order at 
1:23 p.m.4  The first topic of discussion was approval of the minutes of a meeting the Board held 
on October 21.  At 1:26 p.m., Board President Latrina Denson, who was in attendance at the 
November 21 meeting, sent an email to the other members of the Board, which contained no text 
but attached the October 21 minutes.  The second topic of discussion was a determination issued 
by our office, OML 2025-167, which resolved an Open Meeting Law complaint filed with the 
Board.  At 1:32 p.m., Board President Denson forwarded OML 2025-167 by email to the other 
members of Board.  Again, the body of the email contained no text.  The last order of business 
was an executive session, during which the Board discussed minutes of an executive session held 
on March 26.  At 1:48 p.m., while the Board was in executive session, Board President Denson 
sent an email to the other members of the Board, stating “Hello everyone,” (and no other text), 
attaching the minutes of the March 26 executive session.  After circulating the March 26 
minutes, Board President Denson told the other members attending the meeting: “Okay, I just 
sent an email with executive session [sic] for March 26 that once you read it, it needs to be 
deleted from your email.  Okay, it’s confidential.  It’s confidential.”  During the November 21 
executive session, the Board discussed the underlying claims that were the subject of the March 
26 executive session.  Following this discussion, the Board voted to continue to withhold the 
minutes of the March 26 executive session.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when convened in executive session, “all 
meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A “meeting” is 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Law defines “deliberation” broadly as any “oral or 
written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a 
quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  A “quorum” is a 
simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.   
 
A one-way communication from one public body member to a quorum on matters within 
the body’s jurisdiction constitutes deliberation for purposes of the Open Meeting Law, even if no 
other public body member responds.  See OML 2016-104; OML 2015-33; OML 2012-73.
5  
Excepted from the definition of “deliberation” is “the distribution of reports or documents that 
may be discussed at a meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.”  For 
example, the distribution of minutes ahead of a public meeting is permissible as long as the 
minutes simply memorialize the deliberation that took place at a preceding meeting.  See OML 
2019-78; OML 2013-127.  Similarly, a determination issued by our office may be distributed to a 
 
4 The late start of the November 21 meeting was the subject of a prior determination, OML 2026-18.  Open Meeting 
Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/theopen-meeting-law. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
quorum of a public body in preparation for discussion at a future meeting, so long as no opinion 
of a member is expressed. 
 
It is common practice for the chair of a public body to circulate minutes prior to a 
meeting so that members may review them in advance of the vote to approve them.  Here, rather 
than sending them in advance of the meeting, Board President Denson circulated the minutes 
during the meeting itself.  In doing so, she did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  Likewise, 
distribution of the Open Meeting Law determination during the meeting did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law, just as it would have been permitted in advance of the meeting.  Because Board 
President Denson sent the documents without including any member’s opinion, we find no 
violation.   
 
The complaint alleges that the B
 oard deleted text in the email attaching the March 26 
minutes after “Hello everyone,” prior to producing that email, and that the deleted text may have 
constituted improper deliberation.  She acknowledges that she cannot prove a portion of the 
email was deleted but maintains that “it sure appears that there was more after that comma.”  The 
Board represents that this email was produced in its entirety and that there was no deliberation 
via email.  Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s account of the 
facts.  See OML  2023-121; OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141; see also LaPointe v. License Board 
of Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) (“There is every presumption in favor of the honesty and 
sufficiency of the motives actuating public officers in actions ostensibly taken for the general 
welfare.”)   Therefore, we find that the email “Hello everyone” did not contain any opinion of a 
member.
6 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law when members distributed documents electronically during an executive session held on 
November 21. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
6 The Board suggests that members could exchange opinions via email during executive session without running 
afoul of the Open Meeting Law.  We need not reach this argument, as we find that the email simply stated “Hello 
everyone.” 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
cc:  Emily Pfeiffer  
Pioneer Valley Performing Arts Charter Public School Trustees (via email: 
trustees@pvpa.org)  
South Hadley Town Clerk (via email: sgmeiner@southhadleyma.gov)  
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
