===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 10, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 150 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Richard Massina, Esq. 
Clifford & Kenny LLP 
rich@cliffordkennylaw.com   
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Massina: 
 
This office received a complaint from Lynne Mullen, a member of the Abington 
Conservation Commission (the “Commission”), on November 23, 2021,
1 alleging that the 
Abington Board of Selectmen (the “Board”), the Town Manager,2 and the Chair of the 
Commission violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on or about September 17, and you responded on behalf of the 
Board by letter dated October 7.  
 
The Open Meeting Law complaint stems from a complaint filed by a citizen against four 
Commission members, including Ms. Mullen, and the Board’s handling of the citizen’s 
complaint. Specifically, we understand the complaint to allege that 1) members of the 
Commission were not provided with the Open Meeting Law materials public body members are 
required to review upon taking office; 2) the Board posted an insufficiently specific notice for its 
August 23 meeting; 3) Commission members were not provided with sufficient individual notice 
of the August 23 meeting; 4) a notice for the Commission to attend the Board’s August 23 
meeting was not timely posted; and 5) the Board failed to discuss a topic in executive session. 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2021 unless otherwise stated. 
2 The Open Meeting Law applies to public bodies and members of such bodies. See  G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Individual 
public officials, such as the Town Manager, are not public bodies and therefore are not subject to the Open Meeting 
Law. Therefore, we decline to review any allegations that the Town Manager violated the Open Meeting Law. See  
Declination 7-5-16 (Town of Wilmington); OML Declination 5-16-19 (Bourne Town Clerk). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
We appreciate the parties’ patience while we reviewed this matter. Following our review, 
we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint; the Board’s response; the request 
for further review; the notice for, and minutes and video recording3 of, the Board’s August 23 
meeting; and the open and executive session minutes of the Board’s September 27 meeting. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On August 13 the Abington Town Manager received a 
complaint from a citizen alleging that four members of the Commission visited his property 
without providing prior notice and that one member slapped his hand. At some point on or before 
August 14 the Chair of the Commission was made aware of these allegations. On August 20 at 
9:25 a.m. the Town’s Administrative Assistant emailed the Commission members informing 
them that the Board would meet on August 23 at 5:00 p.m. “for discussion and possible vote 
regarding [a] complaint against members of the Conservation Commission pertaining to a site 
walk,” and that “[t]he meeting is posted for the Commission as well if you would like to attend.”   
 
The notice for the Board’s August 23 meeting included three substantive topics, 
including “Discussion and possible vote regarding complaint against members of the Abington 
Conservation Commission.” The Board held its meeting as scheduled on August 23. During the 
discussion of the citizen’s complaint, which was held in open session and lasted for 
approximately one and a half hours, the Board, after reading the complaint aloud, heard from the 
Town Manager; the citizen who filed the complaint; the Chair of the Commission; each 
Commission member cited in the citizen’s complaint, including Ms. Mullen; two additional 
Commission members; and two members of the public. Throughout the discussion, Board 
members asked fact-finding questions. Ultimately, the Board voted to remove three of the four 
Commission members complained of, and to suspend Ms. Mullen for fifteen days.    
 
Although the Board maintained that it did not violate the Open Meeting Law, it did 
acknowledge deficiencies with respect to requirements under the Town Charter for removing and 
disciplining members of Town public bodies. Therefore, in response to the complaint, the Board 
held another meeting on September 27 addressing the citizen’s complaint. During the open 
session portion of the September 27 meeting, the Board decided to rescind its earlier vote taken 
on August 23. During the executive session portion of the September 27 meeting, the minutes of 
which have been released to the public, the Board held a new hearing. The Board decided not to 
discipline Ms. Mullen and voted to sustain the removal of the other three Commission members.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
We begin by noting that the Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Therefore, we do not review, and do not 
opine as to, whether the Board violated any provisions of the Town’s Charter.  
 
 
 
3 A video recording of the Board’s August 23 meeting may be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BDB5TDhogJE. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Open Meeting Law Materials 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “[w]ith in 2 weeks of qualification for office, all 
persons serving on a public body shall certify, on a form prescribed by the attorney general” that 
they have received a copy of the Open Meeting Law, the Attorney General’s regulations and the 
Attorney General’s Guide to the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A § 20(h). “The certification 
shall be evidence that the member of a public body has read and understands the requirements of 
the open meeting law and the consequences of violating it.” Id. In addition, members of public 
bodies must receive a copy of any Open Meeting Law determinations issued to the public body 
by the Attorney General within the last five years in which the Attorney General found a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. 940 CMR 29.04(1)(b). Finally, the Open Meeting Law 
regulations clarify that, for local public bodies, the municipal clerk shall “either deliver to the 
public body member, or require the public body member to obtain from the Attorney General’s 
website,” the required materials. 940 CMR 29.04(1). 
 
The com
plaint alleges that the Commission members were not provided with the required 
Open Meeting Law materials listed above. In the Board’s response to the complaint, it 
acknowledges that the Town failed to provide the Complainant with the required Open Meeting 
Law materials. Because the Board itself is not directly responsible for providing these materials 
to new public body members, we do not find a violation with respect to this allegation. However, 
we take this opportunity to remind the Town that upon election, reelection, appointment or 
reappointment, a member of a Town public body must be provided with the Open Meeting Law 
educational materials listed above and must certify receipt of those materials. This is vitally 
important as it ensures that the Town’s public body members are aware of the Open Meeting 
Law and how to comply with it. 
 
Executive Session 
 
 With respect to the allegation that the Board did not hold the August 23 discussion of the 
citizen
 complaint in executive session, we find no violation. The Open Meeting Law does not 
require public bodies to meet in executive session but rather provides that if a public body 
chooses to meet in executive session, it may do so only for one of ten enumerated purposes. See 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a)(1)-(10); OML 2019-63.4 Therefore, although the Board could have 
convened in executive session “[t]o discuss . . . the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints . . . 
against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual,” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) 
(“Purpose 1”), it was not required to do so and the subjects of the August 23 discussion had no 
right under the Open Meeting Law to demand that the Board do so. See OML 2012-32. 
 
Notice to Commission Members of the August 23 Meeting and Notice for an August 23 
Commission Meeting  
 
To the extent the complaint alleges that Ms. Mullen and the other Commission members 
named in the citizen’s complaint did not receive individual notice of the August 23 meeting 48 
hours prior to the meeting, we again find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. The Open 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Meeting Law does not require a public body to provide individual notice of any meeting, except 
when convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 1. Because the Board did not convene 
in executive session pursuant to Purpose 1, it was not required to provide Ms. Mullen or any 
other individual with specific notice.  
 
Next, we decline to review the allegation that a notice that the C
 ommission might attend 
the Board’s August 23 meeting was not timely posted. There is no allegation that the Board 
failed to timely post notice for its August 23 meeting; rather the allegation is that the 
Commission failed to timely post notice. Although the complaint lists the Commission’s Chair as 
an individual alleged to have violated the Open Meeting Law, there is nothing suggesting that the 
complaint was filed with the Commission. Because the complaint was filed with the Board only, 
and not with the Commission, we decline to review any alleged violations by the Commission or 
its members. See OML Declination 8-27-12 (Waltham City Council); OML Declination 5-7-20 
(Salem School Committee).  
 
Suf
ficiency of the Notice for the Board’s August 23 Meeting  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting “at least 
48 hours pr
ior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). Every notice must include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” Id. Public bodies 
are required to list topics on a notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public 
of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a 
topic sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35. A public 
body need not list each and every detail about a topic in order to comply with the Law’s 
requirements. See OML 2022-98; OML 2019-134. 
 
We find that the notice topic “Discussion and possible vote regarding complaint against 
members of the Abington Conservation Commission” was sufficient to inform the public that the 
Board would discuss a complaint against members of the Commission and that the Board might 
take a vote with respect to the complaint. The Complainant asserts that the notice should have 
more clearly indicated that the meeting would include a disciplinary hearing and that members of 
the Commission might be dismissed or suspended. Whether the Town Charter required 
additional notice be provided to the Commission members who were the subject of the citizen’s 
complaint and who risked discipline is a separate issue not governed by the Open Meeting Law. 
For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, we find that the notice was sufficient.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Alex Bezanson, Chair, Abington Board of Selectmen c/o Scott Lambiase, Town Manager 
(via email: SLambiase@abingtonma.gov) 
Lynne Mullen (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
