===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200
(617) 727-4765 TTY
www.mass.gov/ago
March 2, 2022 
OML 2022 – 37 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
Christopher J. Petrini, Esq. 
Framingham City Solicitor 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Petrini: 
This office received a complaint from Susan Petroni of the Framingham SOURCE on 
August 22, 2021,1 alleging that the Framingham Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on 
or about May 25, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated June 15. The 
complaint alleges that all three members of the Board served on a selection committee to appoint 
a new Director of Public Health, that neither the selection committee nor the Board posted notice 
of any meetings for this purpose, and therefore the Board deliberated outside of a posted meeting 
each time the Board’s members met as part of the selection committee.   
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this matter. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when a quorum of 
the Board participated in interview panels for the new Director of Public Health. In reaching this 
determination we reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, and 
the request for further review. Additionally, we communicated with Counsel for the Board2 on 
several occasions via telephone and email.  
FACTS 
We find the facts to be as follows. At the time of the events relevant to this complaint, the 
Board was a three-member public body; therefore, two members constituted a quorum. The 
Board is charged to protect, promote, and preserve the health and well-being of the residents of 
1 All dates are in 2021, unless otherwise noted. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
the City of Framingham. The Board sets public health policy for the City and acts under 
Massachusetts General Laws, state and local regulations, and community direction. The Board 
acts through the City’s Department of Public Health, which is headed by the Director of Public 
Health. Among other things, the Director of Public Health attends the Board’s meetings, 
provides updates and input to the Board, and suggests topics for discussion at Board meetings. 
 
The Director of Public Health is appointed by the Mayor, with final approval by the City 
Council. The Board has no official role in appointing or approving the appointment of the 
Director of Public Health. In the spring of 2021, the Mayor3 sought the assistance of all three 
members of the Board as she endeavored to select a new appointee for the Director of Public 
Health position. In assisting the Mayor with this task, Board members Gillian Carcia and Laura 
Housman sat on two interview panels together, and Board members Carcia and David Moore sat 
on a third interview panel together. The Director of Human Resources and the Mayor also sat on 
each of the three interview panels.  
 
Prior to the commencement of the interview process, the City’s Chief Diversity, Equity 
and Inclusion Officer drafted a set of questions that all candidates would be asked. During the 
interviews, the panelists asked these prescribed questions. Panelists also asked follow-up 
questions to clarify the candidates’ responses and commented on the candidates’ responses, 
although the panelists have represented that they cannot remember the specific content of any 
follow-up questions or comments.  
 
On or about May 24, the Mayor announced her nomination for Director of Public Health. 
On June 15, the City Council voted not to approve the Mayor’s nominee.         
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” broadly as “an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id. For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum 
is “a simple majority of the members of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
 
As a preliminary matter, the Board asserts that a “selection committee” was never 
created; rather, the Board members were asked to assist the Mayor and Director of Human 
Resources in interviewing candidates and their involvement was limited to that task. Although 
the City issued a press release announcing the appointment of the Director of Public Health that 
referenced a “selection committee” consisting of the three Board members along with the Mayor, 
Director of Human Resources, and Chief Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Officer, we find no 
evidence that a selection committee that would be subject to the Open Meeting Law was created.  
However, this does not end our analysis; even if there was no formal selection committee, we 
still review whether the Board members deliberated outside of a posted meeting of the Board. 
 
3 At the time of the events at issue in this complaint, the Mayor of Framingham was Yvonne M. Spicer.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
 The Board asserts that it did not violate the Open Meeting Law when a quorum 
participated in interviews of candidates for the new Director of Public Health because the 
appointment of the new Director was not a matter within the Board’s jurisdiction but was instead 
a matter solely within the Mayor’s authority. We have found that a topic falls outside the scope 
of a body’s jurisdiction where it does not involve the public body’s exercise of governmental 
business, policy, or administration. See OML 2018-1.4 We do not find that to be the case in this 
instance. Here, even if the Board does not have ultimate authority to appoint or approve the 
appointment of the Director of Public Health, a discussion of the qualifications and suitability of 
the candidates for Director of Public Health, the person who would head the Department of 
Public Health which in turn carries out the Board’s directives, is a discussion that by its nature 
involves the Board’s exercise of governmental business, policy, and administration. Therefore, 
we find that, for purposes of the Open Meeting Law, the matters discussed during the interviews 
were matters within the Board’s jurisdiction. Indeed, the Board members, as the only individuals 
asked to participate in the interviews along with the Mayor and Director of Human Resources, 
were asked to do so precisely because of their capacity as members of the Board. As such, we 
find that the interviews constituted deliberation that should have occurred during a posted open 
meeting, and the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when a quorum participated in interview panels for the new Director of Public Health. Normally, 
when a public body is found to have improperly deliberated outside of a posted meeting, we 
order the public body to create minutes for the improper meeting to the best of its ability. Here, 
because of the time that has passed and because the individuals who took part the interviews at 
issue have consistently represented that they cannot recall what was discussed, we do not order 
the Board to create meeting minutes in this instance. However, we do order the Board’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar future 
violations could be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
cc: David Moore, Chair, Framingham Board of Health c/o Framingham Department of 
Health (via e-mail: ) 
 Christopher Brown, Esq., Petrini & Associates, P.C. (via e-mail: 
) 
Susan Petroni (via email: )  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
