===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL:(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 2, 2015 
OML 2015-78 
Wayne E. Taylor, Chair 
Board of Selectmen 
16 Great Neck Road North 
Mashpee, MA 02649 
Re: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Taylor: 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty, dated April 22, alleging that the 
Mashpee Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§18-
25.1 Specifically, the complaint alleges that the notice for the Board's March 23 meeting lacked 
"sufficient specificity to clearly, adequately and reasonably inform the public about the purpose, 
scope and content of the topic or issue to be discussed." The complaint was filed with the Board 
on April 2. The Board responded to the complaint by letter dated April 21. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Board, the Board's 
response, and the complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed the notice for, and 
minutes of, the Board's March 23 meeting. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The notice for the Board's March 23 meeting included the 
topic, "Land Disposition Discussion." During the meeting, the Board reviewed its inventory of 
tax possession properties and discussed their future use.2 Following the discussion, the Board 
decided to schedule public meetings over the summer "for the purpose of outreach and to gain an 
opinion from the public regarding the rationale of the land disposition recommendations." 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
1 All dates refer to the year 2015. 
2 Pursuant to G.L. c. 60, § 77, tax possession properties are properties taken by a town after foreclosure of the rights 
of redemption under a tax title or taking, and shall be held and disposed of like any land belonging to the Town and 
held for municipal purposes. 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Notices must include 
"a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." Id 
The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to 
be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
Mr. Beaty alleges that the topic in the notice for the Board's March 23, 2015 meeting 
identified as "Land Disposition Discussion" was not sufficiently specific. We disagree. During 
its March 23, 2015 meeting, the Board reviewed its inventory of tax possession properties and 
discussed the disposition of different categories of properties. The discussion did not concern a 
specific piece of property, but rather various properties owned by the Town. While the topic 
could have been more detailed, it was sufficiently specific to inform the public that the Board 
would be discussing the disposition or use of land.3 G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
We therefore find this topic satisfied the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. Additionally, 
we commend the Board for responding to the complaint by posting to the Town's website the 
inventory of town owned properties discussed by the Board. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve any 
other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Board. Please feel free to 
contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Mashpee Board of Selectmen 
Ronald Beaty 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. e. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 We suggest that, in the future, a similar discussion could more clearly be described as, "Review of inventory of tax 
possession properties; Discussion of disposition of tax possession properties." 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 