===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 16, 2018 
OML 2018-7 
Katherine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054 
RE; Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
Lhis office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan on October 20, alleging that 
the Ashland Sustainability Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L, c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 Lhe complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about 
August 9, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated 
September 6. In his complaint, Mr. Morgan alleges that, during its August 30 meeting, the 
Committee discussed two topics that were not listed on the notice. He additionally alleges 
that the minutes of the meeting fail to list a document used by the Committee during that 
meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to list an anticipated discussion topic on its August 30 meeting notice. We find no 
violation with respect to the other two allegations cited in the complaint. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notice and minutes from the Committee's August 30 meeting. 
We find the facts as follows. On August 24, the Board published notice for a meeting 
scheduled for August 30 to discuss, among other things, a plastic bag ban. The notice listed 
this topic as follows: 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise specified. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
2. Plastic Bag Ban 
a. Feedback from businesses 
b. Review questions on bylaw language 
c. Presentation to Finance Committee and BOS 
d. Plan for tracking feedback and FAQs at meetings and forums 
e. October Fown Pages Article 
f. Ashland Day 
g. Public Forum 
During the Committee's discussion on the plastic bag ban, under the topic, 
"Presentation to Finance Committee and BOS," Co-Chair Matthew Marshquist reviewed a 
presentation he had recently given to the Conservation Commission about the proposed 
plastic bag ban. Although the meeting minutes do not refer to an upcoming presentation to 
the Finance Commission and the Board of Selectmen, the Committee contends that this recap 
was intended to assist the Committee in preparing for that upcoming presentation. Mr. 
Marshquist did not use a document during his recap to the Committee. 
Later in the meeting, the Committee voted to recommend a new member to the 
Committee; a topic that was not listed on the meeting notice. In response to this complaint, 
the Committee listed this topic on its September 20 meeting notice and voted again to appoint 
the member to the Committee. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body must post notice of every meeting at 
least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). Notices must include "a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." Id. The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We 
generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could 
read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See 
OML 2015-35.2 
The complaint alleges that, during its August 30 meeting, the Committee discussed a 
prior presentation given to the Conservation Commission regarding the plastic bag ban 
without listing it as a topic on the notice and that the minutes failed to list this presentation as 
a document used during the meeting. The Committee contends that this topic flowed 
naturally from its preparation for an anticipated presentation to the Finance Committee and 
the Board of Selectmen regarding the plastic bag ban. And the Committee contends that no 
document was used during this presentation. We find that a summary of a presentation that a 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Committee member had already delivered to the Conservation Commission regarding the 
plastic bag ban fit within the posted topic, "Presentation to Finance Committee and the BOS" 
regarding the same substantive topic, the plastic bag ban. The recap was intended to assist the 
Committee in preparing for this upcoming presentation. It is enough that the public knew the 
essential facts about the anticipated topic: the Committee's presentation regarding the plastic 
bag ban. See OML 2014-44. The Committee need not list each and every detail about a topic 
in order to comply with the law's requirements. See OML 2014-122. Furthermore, because 
no document was used during the recap, the Committee could not have listed a document in 
the meeting minutes. Accordingly, the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
However, as the Committee concedes, the Committee appointed a new member during 
this meeting without posting it as a topic on the meeting notice. Because the Committee 
agrees that the topic was anticipated and should have been listed on the meeting notice, we 
find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). We 
commend the Committee for taking remedial action in response to this complaint by holding a 
new vote on the topic at its September 20 meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to list an anticipated topic on its August 30 meeting notice. We order the 
Committee's immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution 
that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc; Stephen Morgan 
Ashland Sustainability Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 