===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
September 14, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 173 
 
Christopher J. Petrini 
Framingham City Solicitor 
Petrini & Associates, P.C. 
372 Union Avenue 
Framingham, MA 01702 
By email only: cpetrini@petrinilaw.com 
 
 RE: Op
 en Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Petrini: 
 
This office received a complaint from Frank Wood on April 21, 2022, alleging that the 
Framingham Human Relations Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on March 
22, and former Commission Chair Bianca Blackman responded, on behalf of the Commission, by 
letter dated April 11.2  The complaint alleges that i) the notice for the Commission meeting held 
on March 10 lacked sufficient specificity; ii) the Commission failed to post meeting minutes; and 
iii) the Commission failed to provide adequate, alternative means of public access to the March 
10 meeting.   
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in ac
 cordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Commission’s response to the complaint, the 
complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the notice and video recording of 
the Commission meeting held on March 10.
3  Following our review, we find that the 
Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by posting a notice with insufficient specificity.  
We find that the Commission did not violate the law in the other ways alleged. 
 
Public bodies must post notice of each meeting “at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, 
excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and every notice must include “the date, time 
and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The list of topics shall have “sufficient 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2022. 
2 Ms. Blackman is no longer a member of the Commission. 
3 The video recording of the Commission meeting held on March 10 is available at 
http://framinghamma.iqm2.com/Citizens/SplitView.aspx?Mode=Video&MeetingID=13650&Format=Agenda .  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35; OML 2012-71; OML 2011-44.
4 
  
On February 28, the Commission posted notice of a meeting to be held on March 10.  
The notice included four topics: “Roll call via online conference (Zoom), Approval of minutes, 
Commissioners: Check-in & general announcements, and Public Comment.”  The March 10 
meeting was held as planned and the Commission spoke with the newly elected Mayor of 
Framingham who had been invited to attend the meeting.  The Commission and Mayor discussed 
the hiring of a Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Director, ways to work together to promote 
diversity in the workforce, and the role of the Commission in the new administration. 
 
The Commission admits that “agendas could provide more detail.”  We agree and find 
that
 the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by not specifically including on the notice 
a topic for discussion with the Mayor about diversity and the role of the Commission in the new 
administration.  Further, we express our concern that, during the March 10 meeting, the Chair 
stated that the Commission had only posted a “general agenda for the next three months” in order 
to reserve the Zoom platform.  We remind the Commission that, while it may publish a general 
notice to reserve meeting dates, it must update the notices prior to each meeting to include a 
sufficiently specific list of topics that the Chair reasonably expects to discuss.  See G.L. c. 30A,  
§ 20(b). 
 
The
 complaint also alleges that the Commission failed to “post minutes.”  The Open Law 
Meeting does not require that public bodies post their minutes to a website or elsewhere, but only 
that minutes be created, maintained, and approved in a timely manner, and made available within 
10 days of request.  G.L. c. 30A, §§22(a), (c); OML 2020-78; OML 2017-98.  There is no 
allegation that the complainant requested the minutes and did not receive them.  Therefore, we 
find no violation of the Open Meeting Law.   
 
Although not specifically raised in the complaint, the Commission suggests that certain 
mee
ting minutes have not been approved because the Commission “has lacked a quorum.”  We 
remind the Commission that minutes must be reviewed and approved in a timely manner, that is, 
“within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the 
public body can show good cause for further delay.”  G.L. c. 30A, §22(c); 940 CMR 29.11; see 
OML 2018-48.  Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the 
next meeting.  See OML 2018-67; OML 2017-133.  The Open Meeting Law does not govern the 
method for approving minutes, however.  Public bodies may choose the method for approving 
their minutes, including approval by the public body chair alone, by majority vote of the public 
body, or by consent of the body (approved unless there is an objection).  When a quorum of a 
public body approves minutes, however, it must do so during a noticed meeting. 
 
Fina
lly, with respect to the complaint’s allegation that the meeting was “not broadcast 
live on any of the city video services, public access, [or] the government channel,” but only 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website , https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
through Zoom, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law.  The Op en Meeting Law requires 
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public unless an executive session is 
convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21.  On February 15, 2022, Governor Baker signed into 
law An Act Relative to Extending Certain COVID-19 Measures Adopted During the State of 
Emergency, Chapter 22 of the Acts of 2022 (“Chapter 22”), which extended the remote meeting 
provisions established in Governor Baker's March 12, 2020, Order Suspending Certain 
Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 20 (“Executive Order”).  Under Governor 
Baker’s Executive Order, public bodies were permitted to meet entirely remotely, provided that 
the public body provided adequate, alternative means of public access to the deliberations of the 
public body.  “Adequate, alternative means” may include, without limitation, providing public 
access through telephone, internet, or satellite enabled audio or video conferencing or any other 
technology that enables the public to clearly follow the proceedings of the public body in real 
time.  See OML 2021-135.  Here, the Commission provided real time access for the public via 
the Zoom application and the notice for the March 10 meeting provided information necessary to 
access the meeting, including a link to the Zoom meeting, several telephone numbers the public 
could use to dial into the meeting, and the Webinar ID number required to log into the meeting.  
We have stated that Zoom qualifies as an “adequate alternative means” under the Governor’s 
Executive Order for the public to attend remote meetings.  See 2021-91; 2021-10; 2020-111.  As 
the Commission is not required to provide more than one means of adequate, alternative access, 
we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law where it chose to allow 
public access to its March 10 meeting only through the web-based Zoom platform.
5 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by posting an insufficiently specific notice for its March 10 meeting.  We order the 
Commission’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution 
that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.     
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
Sincerely, 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Frank Wood – By email only:  
Framingham Human Relations Commission c/o Keziah Franca, Citizens Participation 
Officer – By email only: kfranca@framinghamma.gov 
 
5 The complaint suggests that only the discussions involving the Mayor were recorded and not the entire March 10 
Commission meeting.  The Open Meeting Law does not require that public bodies create video recordings of its 
meetings.  See OML 2014-82; OML 2013-8.  
   

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 