===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY TEL: (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
June 18,2015 
OML 2015-81 
Mark C. Gildea, Esq. 
Clark, Balboni & Gildea 
75 Main Street 
Bridgewater, MA 02324 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Gildea: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Peter D'Agostino, dated April 23, 2015, 
alleging that the Plymouth County Commissioners (the "Commissioners") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Commissioners on March 27, 2015, and the Commissioners responded to the original complaint 
by letter dated April 23, 2015. In his complaint, Mr. D'Agostino alleges that the Commissioners 
failed to record on a meeting notice the time that it was posted.1 
Following our review, we find that the Commissioners violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. We do not find this violation to be intentional. In reaching a determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint; the Commissioners' response; and the request for further review 
filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice for a meeting of the Commissioners held on 
March 19,2015. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Commissioners posted notice for a meeting to be held 
on March 19, 2015 at 5:00 P.M. At approximately 1:00 P.M. on the day of the meeting, Mr. 
D'Agostino contacted Attorney Gildea and informed him that the meeting notice did not indicate 
the date and time that it was posted.2 Attorney Gildea then contacted the Chair of the 
Commissioners. The Chair informed him that the meeting notice had been posted more than 48 
hours in advance of the meeting. Attorney Gildea then stated to the Chair that the failure to 
indicate the date and time at which the meeting notice was posted was "de minimis." Mr. 
D'Agostino contacted Attorney Gildea twice more over the course of the afternoon to discuss the 
1 In his complaint, Mr. D'Agostino states that "this is not the first circumstance" where the Commissioners have 
been made aware of potential Open Meeting Law violations. He then describes two alleged violations that took 
place earlier in 2015. Because the only violation formally alleged in the complaint is the allegation concerning the 
March 19, 2015 meeting notice, we decline to consider these earlier allegations. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
missing detail on the meeting notice, and during both conversations Attorney Gildea stated that 
the Commissioners intended to hold the meeting. Ultimately, the Commissioners held the 
meeting on the evening of March 19, 2015 as planned. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law states that notice of every meeting must be posted "at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays," and every notice 
must include "the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of the topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b). The date and 
time that a meeting notice is posted must be conspicuously recorded on or with the meeting 
notice. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
Here, there is no dispute that the Commissioners failed to indicate the date and time that 
the notice was posted, as required by law. See G.L. c. BOA, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(1 )(b). We 
find that this failure violated the Open Meeting Law. 
The complaint argues that we should find this violation to be intentional because Mr. 
D'Agostino informed Attorney Gildea that the meeting notice lacked required detail, yet the 
Commissioners chose to proceed with the meeting in violation of the Open Meeting Law. An 
"intentional violation," for the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, is defined as "an act or 
omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting 
Law]." 940 CMR 29.02. Evidence of an intentional violation includes a violation where "the 
public body or public body member (a) acted with specific intent to violate the law." Id We 
have previously found specific intent to violate the law where a public body was informed that 
an impending meeting did not meet Open Meeting Law requirements, yet the public body chose 
to proceed with the meeting. See OML 2014-41. However, our regulations state that where a 
public body acts in good faith compliance with the advice of the body's legal counsel, such 
conduct will not be considered an intentional violation of the law. 940 CMR 29.02 (defining 
"Intentional Violation"); OML 2015-50. Attorney Gildea assured the Commissioners that any 
violation was "de minimis," and we find that the Commissioners relied on this advice in deciding 
to hold the meeting on March 19, 2015 as planned. Accordingly, we do not find an intentional 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(g); 940 CMR 29.02; OML 2015-50; 
OML 2013-97. 
Further, we note that the Commissioners stated to our office that the meeting notice was 
posted at least 48 hours prior to the meeting, and no evidence has been introduced to contradict 
this version of events. We therefore credit the public body's account of the facts. See OML 
2014-122; OML 2013-133. Because we credit the Commissioners' statement that the meeting 
notice was posted at least 48 hours prior to the meeting, we agree that the harm done by failing to 
indicate the time of posting was minimal. However, the Commissioners should have made an 
effort to update the meeting notice as soon as it learned of its deficiencies. 
As a final matter, we note that the Commissioners failed to respond to Mr. D'Agostino's 
Open Meeting Law complaint within the time frame required by law. Unless an extension of 
time has been requested, a public body must, within 14 business days of receipt of an Open 
Meeting Law complaint, send a copy of the complaint to the Attorney General's Office and 
notify the Attorney General's Office of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CMR 29.05(5), (6). Here, the original complaint was filed with the Commissioners on March 
27, 2015. The Commissioners did not request an extension and responded by letter dated April 
23, 2015. This failure to respond in a timely manner violated the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commissioners violated the Open Meeting 
Law. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution 
that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commissioners. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Mr. Peter D'Agostino 
Plymouth County Commissioners 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 