===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
October 3, 2019
OML 2019-126
Timothy Luff 
Assistant Superintendent 
Natick Public Schools 
13 East Central Street 
Natick, MA 01760
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Assistant Superintendent Luff:
This office received two complaints from Ronald Alexander on September 18, alleging 
that the Natick School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 2 The complaints were originally filed with the Committee on June 20; after 
being granted an extension of time, you responded on behalf of the Committee by email dated 
August 23. The complaints allege that the Committee failed to timely respond to a request to 
inspect open and executive session minutes of meetings held since April 2.
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Committee’s 
response, and the requests for further review. We also reviewed Mr. Alexander’s June 6 request 
for meeting minutes.
FACTS
By email dated June 6, Mr. Alexander requested certain meeting minutes and notes of 
Natick School Committee meetings. Mr. Alexander’s email, which was sent to 
publicrecords@natickma.org, stated, in its entirety:
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2019.
2 Mr. Alexander numbered the complaints 2019-10 and 2019-11.
o

===PAGE 2===
Dear Natick, MA Records Access Officers,
I request to inspect all minutes and notes created for and during all Open and 
Executive session meetings of the Natick School Committee from April 2, 2019 
to the present.
Sincerely,
Ron Alexander
The Committee construed the request for meeting minutes as a request made under the 
Public Records Law, G.L. c. 66, § 10, responded to the request within 10 business days, and 
provided the requested records.
DISCUSSION
The complaints allege that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
respond to the June 6 request for meeting minutes within 10 calendar days. A request for 
meeting minutes under the Open Meeting Law must be made to the public body. The Open 
Meeting Law requires that “[mjinutes of an open session, if they exist and whether approved or 
in draft form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 days.” G.L. c. 30A,
§ 22(c). Under the Open Meeting Law, a public body has 10 calendar days from the date a 
request is received to provide a response. If minutes do not yet exist at the time of a request, the 
public body is still required to respond to the request within 10 calendar days with an explanation 
of whether the minutes do or do not exist in either approved or draft form. The Public Records 
Law, on the other hand, allows 10 business days for responding to requests for records.
We have stated that a request for minutes that is directed to a public body will fall within 
the Open Meeting Law. A request for minutes that is directed to a clerk or other employee as 
Records Access Officer will likely fall under the Public Records Law. See OML 2018-32; OML 
2019-68.* 3 The 2017 revisions to the Public Records Law required that each municipality 
designate a Records Access Officer, and imposed on that Records Access Officer certain specific 
obligations under the Public Records Law.
Here, the request was sent to the Town of Natick Records Access Officer, only, without 
any indication that it was intended for the Committee nor a request that it be forwarded to the 
Committee. We therefore find that the request for meeting minutes was not a request that fell 
under the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30 A, § 22(c), (g)(2), and find no violation of the Open 
Meeting Law.4
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website;
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
4 Mr. Alexander cites to a 2017 letter in which we declined to review an Open Meeting Law complaint that he filed 
with the Wellesley School Committee, because we found that his request for various types of documents other than 
meeting minutes was governed by the Public Records Law, not the Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting Law 
complaint at issue in that declination letter did not involve a request for meeting minutes; it only pertained to other 
types of documents. In that letter, in declining to review the complaint as not falling within the Open Meeting Law, 
we stated “[t]he Open Meeting Law governs requests for meeting minutes, see G.L. c. 30A, § 22, but requests for 
other documents are governed by the Public Records Law, G.L. c. 66, § 10.” We did not state in the 2017 letter that
2

===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION
For the reasons set forth above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions.
Sincerely,
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Ronald Alexander
Natick School Committee
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
the Open Meeting Law always governs requests for meeting minutes, and in fact meeting minutes may be requested 
under either the Open Meeting Law or the Public Records Law, depending on how the request is made. See
https://www.mass.gov/info-details/frequent1v-asked-questions-about-the-open-meeting-law#frequentlv-asked-
questions-about-meeting-minutes-.
3
