===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 14, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 87 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Timothy D. Zessin, Esq. 
KP Law 
tzessin@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Zessin: 
 
On October 24, 2025, this office received two complaints from Attorney Aaron Dubois, 
alleging that the West Stockbridge Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The first complaint was filed with the Board on September 12 and you 
responded by letter dated October 2.
1  The second complaint was filed with the Board on 
September 17 and you responded by letter dated October 8.  The complainant alleges that the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law by (1) meeting in executive session without a proper 
purpose, including meeting on one occasion without posting any notice; (2) posting physical 
notice of a fully remote meeting, thereby requiring that interested members of the public 
transcribe the Zoom address from the paper notice; (3) improperly blocking or removing 
members of the public from attending meetings remotely; (4) cloaking an open meeting law 
violation as a  “clerical error” when describing prior action; and (5) listing a topic with 
insufficient specificity and holding a perfunctory vote on the topic without discussion. 
 
We appreciate the parties’ patience as we reviewed this matter.  Following our review, 
we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it held a meeting on Thursday, 
August 28 although the notice listed the date of the meeting as “Thursday, August 26” and when 
it removed and blocked a member of the public from attending a remote meeting.  We do not 
find that the Board violated the Law in the other ways alleged.   In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the Board’s responses, and the request for 
further review.  We also reviewed minutes of executive sessions that the Board held on February 
26, March 13, April 9, May 8, June 10, and August 13.  We reviewed notices for meetings held 
between February 26 and August 28.  We communicated with you and with the complainant via 
email.  Finally, we viewed a recording of a meeting the Board held on September 5.
2 
 
1 All dates are in 2025 unless otherwise stated.  
2 We accessed the recording at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aAongfMtYmg.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Town of West Stockbridge has not adopted its 
municipal website as the official posting location of meeting notices.  Notices are physically 
posted at Town Hall.  Notices of six meetings, held by the Board between February 26 and 
August 13, each included the following executive session:  
 
Executive session pursuant to the provisions of G.L. c.30A, §21(a)(3) to discuss strategy 
with respect to litigation, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares; Wiseacre Farm. 
  
Wiseacre Farm is a business in West Stockbridge that operates a marijuana cultivation 
establishment and is represented by the complainant.  Its operations are governed by a host 
community agreement executed by Wiseacre Farm and the Town.  Executive sessions went 
forward on February 26, March 13, April 9, and May 8 as scheduled.
3    
 
The Board also held remote meetings on Tuesday, August 26, and Thursday, August 28.  
The paper notices posted at Town Hall included zoom addresses to access the meetings but did 
not include a webinar ID and passcode.  The notice of the August 26 meeting included the 
following executive session topic: 
 
Executive Session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, Section 21(a)(3) to discuss strategy with 
respect to litigation where an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating 
position of the public body and the chair so declares regarding Wiseacre Farms, Inc.’s 
compliance with its host community agreement to operate a marijuana cultivation 
establishment at property located at 42 Baker Street, West Stockbridge. The Board will 
discuss and deliberate as to litigation strategy. 
 
The Board also posted notice of a meeting to be held “Thursday, August 26, 2025.”  That 
notice included the open session topic “Vote to approve contract with Tech Environmental.”  
The Board met on both August 26 and August 28.  During the latter meeting, the Board 
discussed a contract with Tech Environmental to monitor odors believed to originate at Wiseacre 
Farm.  Following a discussion, the Board voted to approve the contract with Tech 
Environmental. 
 
The Board next met on September 5.  Two of the three Board members attended this 
meeting; both appeared in person.  Access was provided to the public by Zoom only.  Notice of 
the September 5 meeting included one open session topic, “Discussion/Business/Action items: -
Vote to approve contract with Tech Environmental.”  At the beginning of the September 5 
meeting, the Chair acknowledged the error on the notice of the meeting held on Thursday, 
August 28.  The Chair described the incorrect date as a typographical error.  He indicated that the 
September 5 meeting was being held to discuss and re-vote on the topic of the August 28 
meeting.   
 
3 The complaint references an executive session on June 9.  However, no executive session was held on that date.  
The notice of an executive session to be held on August 8 also included this language.  However, that meeting was 
canceled.
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Several members of the public, including the complainant, Attorney Dubois, spoke 
during public comment at the September 5 meeting.  One of the co-owners of Wiseacre Farm, 
Jon Piasecki, spoke first.  He asked that Attorney Dubois be allowed to speak.  However, 
Attorney Dubois had been removed from the meeting and blocked.  Several minutes later, 
Attorney Dubois was able to join the meeting and contributed to public comment.  Another 
member of the public contributed to public comment but was then removed from the meeting 
and was blocked from rejoining the meeting.  After the last of the public comments, an 
unidentified woman in the room asked if Mr. Piasecki and Attorney Dubois had any additional 
public comment; they were asked to put their “hands” down if they had nothing further to 
contribute.  A motion to enter into a contract with Tech Environmental was then made and 
seconded.  Without discussion among the two Board members in attendance, the motion passed.  
The meeting lasted approximately 21 minutes.  At its September 15 meeting, the Board approved 
an amended contract with Teck Environmental. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board met in executive session for a proper purpose. 
 
Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law.  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a).  Among those ten enumerated 
purposes is “Purpose 3,” which allows a public body to convene in executive session to “discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3).  A public body may invoke Purpose 3 to discuss litigation 
strategy only when it has a litigating position to protect relative to the topic of that discussion.  
See OML 2025-201; OML 2019-161; OML 2018-110.
4  The mere possibility of litigation is not 
sufficient to invoke Purpose 3.  See OML 2025-201. 
 
The Board met in executive session on at least six occasions to discuss concerns about 
Wiseacre Farm.  Because we reviewed these minutes in camera, we do not summarize the 
minutes here.  Although it is a close question, we find that the discussions had in executive 
session on the dates in question concerned strategy with respect to possibly initiating litigation 
against Wiseacre Farm.  As such, the discussions were properly had under Purpose 3.  See OML 
2024-22.  Although we find no violation as to this allegation, we caution the Board to strictly 
limit its executive session discussions to the purpose(s) announced prior to entering executive 
session.  We remind the Board that a public body’s discussions with its counsel do not 
automatically fall under Purpose 3 or any other executive session purpose.  See OML 2025-201. 
 
II. The Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it posted a paper notice of a 
remote meeting. 
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  For meetings of a local 
public body, unless an alternative posting method has been adopted, the notice must be filed with 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
the municipal clerk and posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or 
on the municipal building in which the clerk’s office is located.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c); 940 CMR 
29.03(2).  The Law allows for alternative methods of posting meeting notices as prescribed by 
the Attorney General.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c).  The Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law 
regulations allow the Chief Executive Officer of a municipality to adopt the municipality’s 
website as the official posting location for meeting notices.  See 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b).   
 
West Stockbridge has not adopted its municipal website as its official notice posting 
location for town meeting notices.  Therefore, notices of Board meetings must be physically 
posted at the Town Offices located at 21 State Line Road.  A municipality may only have one 
official notice posting location for purposes of complying with the Open Meeting Law, though 
public bodies are welcome to post notice of their meetings in additional locations if they choose.  
See OML 2025-9; OML 2021-63; OML 2021-17.   
 
The complainant argues that the Board violated the Law by posting hard copies of notices 
for re
mote meetings, which requires interested members of the public to transcribe the link 
address and then type it online to gain access to the meeting.  Although the steps required to 
access the Board meetings may have been inconvenient, they did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  The Board posted notices at its official posting location.  The notices included clear 
instructions to access the meeting remotely.  See OML 2024-217; OML 2021-17; OML 2020-
102.  Adoption of a website may facilitate access of the meeting page but is not required.  See 
OML 2021-94 (noting that there would be no violation of the Open Meeting Law “where a 
hyperlink was accurate but not active on a meeting notice” and that “where. . . a public body’s 
official notice posting location is a physical bulletin board, it would be impossible for a public 
body to provide active hyperlinks in its meeting notice.”)  Therefore, we find no violation as to 
this allegation.   
 
III. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it blocked a member of the public 
from re-entering the September 5 meeting. 
 
At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement that meetings of public bodies be 
open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except when meeting in executive 
session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”).  Generally, access to a 
meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present as well as to see and hear what is 
being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2020-100; OML 2018-75. 
 
A public body is permitted to meet entirely remotely, provided that it provides adequate, 
alternative means of public access to its deliberations. “Adequate, alternative means” may 
include, without limitation, providing public access through telephone, internet, or satellite 
enabled audio or video conferencing or any other technology that enables the public to clearly 
follow the proceedings of the public body in real time.  G.L. c. 20, § 20(b); Chapter 2 of the Acts 
of 2025; OML 2026-18; OML 2025-179; OML 2021-135.  When all public body members 
participate in a meeting remotely or when a public body meets in person without providing the 
public physical access to the meeting location, the public body must then provide the public with 
adequate, alternative access to the meeting, which requires access to the proceedings in real time.  
See OML 2026-18; OML 2020-111; OML 2020-100; Chapter 20, § 20(b).   
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Based upon the information before us, we find that at least one member of the public was 
removed from the remote September 5 meeting and was blocked from rejoining the meeting.  We 
therefore find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2024-95 (finding 
violation of Open Meeting Law when meeting notice included incorrect link, even though error 
was accidental and public body was unaware that public could not access meeting); OML 2024-
63 (“If a public body uses a Zoom waiting room in order to manually admit members of the 
public to the meeting, it must ensure that attendees are promptly admitted to the meeting at the 
start of and throughout the duration of the meeting.”); OML 2022-237 (finding violation of Open 
Meeting Law when board attempted to disable an attendee’s video feed and instead briefly 
removed the individual from the meeting); OML 2017-83 (finding the meeting inaccessible 
where the door to the meeting location was locked). 
 
IV. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it held a meeting on a date that was 
misidentified on the meeting notice. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to post notice of every meeting and to 
include in the meeting notice “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics 
that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  See 
also OML 2025-72 (meeting notice that listed start time that was incorrect by nine hours did not 
conform to Open Meeting Law); OML 2024-65 (explaining that Open Meeting Law requires that 
notice include date, not day, of meeting); OML 2016-42.  The Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law when it went forward with a meeting on Thursday, August 28 where the posted notice 
stated that the meeting would take place on “Thursday, August 26.” 
 
Violations of the Open Meeting Law may be cured by independent, deliberative action 
that is not merely a ceremonial acceptance and perfunctory ratification of action taken in 
violation of the Law.  See Pearson v. Bd. of Selectmen of Longmeadow, 49 Mass. App. Ct. 119, 
125 (2000); OML 2026-24; OML 2020-7; OML 2016-49.  Generally, that means conducting 
deliberations anew at a subsequent meeting that is accessible to the public and for which proper 
notice is provided.  Recognizing what it has termed a “typographical error” in the notice of the 
August 28 meeting, the Board scheduled a meeting for September 5 to revisit the topic and 
corresponding vote of the August 28 meeting.  However, as the Board did not engage in any 
independent deliberation, we find that the Board did not cure the violation by holding a meeting 
on September 5.  See OML 2023-115 (finding “that the Board did not cure the December 7 
violation where, on January 18, 2023, it simply voted to ratify its earlier votes”); OML 2023-71 
(finding that violation was not cured by subsequent meeting where Commission “merely ratified 
the June 2 vote.”) 
 
The complainant asks us to nullify the vote held on September 5.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(c) (providing that “[u]pon the finding of a violation, the attorney general may issue an order 
to. . . nullify in whole or in part any action taken at the meeting”).  We decline to do so, where 
the Board voted to execute an amended contract on September 12, at a properly posted meeting.  
 
  
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it held a meeting the notice of which included the wrong date, and when it removed and 
blocked a member of the public from attending a remote meeting.  
 
We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and 
caution the Board that future similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate 
the Open Meeting Law.   
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Aaron DuBois   
 West Stockbridge Town Cl erk (via email: clerk@weststockbridge-ma.gov)  
  
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
 
