===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
December 20, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 195 
 
 
Colleen Mejia, Esq. 
Office of the City Solicitor 
Everett City Hall 
484 Broadway  
Everett, MA 02149 
 
By e-mail only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Mejia: 
 
This determination addresses a complaint from Steven Fitzgerald alleging that the Everett 
Public Works Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.  The complaint is dated November 25, and alleges that the Commission held a meeting on 
November 12, for which it was “unclear when and where the Agenda for the meeting was 
posted.”1  The complaint also alleges that the members of the Commission failed to comply with 
the Open Meeting Law’s certification requirement.2 
  
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Commission’s response to the complaint, the 
complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the City of Everett’s website, 
cityofeverett.com.  We find that the Commission members violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to comply with the Open Meeting Law’s certification requirement.  We find that the 
Commission did not violate the law in the other way alleged. 
 
  
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2020, unless indicated. 
2 Because of the volume of complaints that Mr. Fitzgerald has filed with public bodies in Everett, we have numbered 
the complaints for tracking purposes. This determination addresses complaint 18. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Open Meeting Law Certification 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “within 2 weeks of qualification for office, all 
persons serving on a public body shall certify, on a form prescribed by the attorney general, the 
receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, regulations promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a 
copy of the educational materials prepared by the attorney general explaining the open meeting 
law and its application pursuant to section 19 .... The certification shall be evidence that the 
member of a public body has read and understands the requirements of the open meeting law and 
the consequences of violating it.”  G.L. c. 30A § 20(h).  The Open Meeting Law regulations 
further clarify that, upon a public body member's qualification for office, the municipal clerk 
shall provide the required materials to the public body member and the public body member 
shall sign the certification within two weeks thereafter.  940 CMR 29.04(1), (3).  The 
Commission does not dispute that at the time Mr. Fitzgerald filed this complaint, the 
Commission members had not completed the certification.  However, in response to the 
complaint, each Commission member completed the required certification and provided a copy 
to Mr. Fitzgerald and to this office.  Therefore, we find that the Commission violated the Law in 
this regard, but subsequently took appropriate remedial action, and we order no further action. 
 
November 12 Meeting Notice 
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance of the 
meeting, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice 
for a local public body must be posted in or on the building in which the municipal clerk's office 
is located, and must be conspicuously visible to the public at all hours. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c). As 
an alternative notice posting method, a municipality may choose to post notices to its website.  
940 CMR 29.03(2)(b).  The City of Everett had adopted its website, cityofeverett.com, as its 
alternative notice posting location. 
 
We find that the notice of the Commission’s November 12 meeting was timely posted to 
the City of Everett’s website at 10:48 a.m. on November 10.  We note, however, that notices of 
meetings of the Commission as posted to the City’s website have, over the course of the past 
year, been titled seemingly interchangeably as “DPW Commission,” “Department of Public 
Works Commission,” “City Services Commission,” and “Public Works Commission,” which 
may have led to confusion in locating the notice of the November 12 meeting.  We find that 
notice of the Commission’s November 12 meeting was timely posted to the City’s website, 
which is its official notice posting location, and therefore the Commission did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law.  Nonetheless, we urge the Commission to consistently label its meeting 
notices so that they are clear and can be readily located by members of the public.    
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to comply with the Open Meeting Law’s certification requirement.  We order the 
Commission’s immediate and future compliance with the law and caution that future similar 
violations may be considered evidence of an intentional violation of the law.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Commission.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Steven Fitzgerald – By e-mail only:  
Everett Public Works Commission – By e-mail only:  
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
