===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
September 20, 2012 
OML 2012 — 95 
Doug Briggs 
Town Administrator 
Town of Ashburnham 
Town Hall 
32 Main St. 
Ashbumham, MA 01430 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Briggs: 
This office received a complaint from G. Lillian Whitney, dated November 7, 2011, 
alleging that the Ashby and Ashburnham Boards of Selectmen (the "Boards") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Boards on or 
about November 1, 2011, and you responded to the original complaint on behalf of both boards 
by letter dated November 2, 2011. 1  The complainant alleges that the Boards violated the Open 
Meeting Law by stating in their respective notices for an October 24, 2011 joint meeting that a 
particular agenda item would be discussed in executive session, but then holding the discussion 
of that item in open session, denying the complainant "an opportunity to participate in the forum 
for Ashby." 
We reviewed the November 1, 2011 complaint filed with the Boards; the November 2, 
2011 response from you, on behalf of both boards; the November 7, 2011 complaint filed with 
our office; each board's notice for and minutes from the joint open session meeting held on 
October 24, 2011; and we spoke with you by telephone about the complaints on August 9, 2012. 
1  The Attorney General's Regulations require that, when an individual files an Open Meeting Law complaint with a 
public body, the chair of the public body "shall disseminate copies of the complaint to the members of the public 
body" and "the public body shall review the complaint's allegations." 940 CIV1R 29.05(3), (5). It appears, from the 
one day turnaround time, that you may have responded on behalf of the Boards before they had an opportunity to 
review the complaint. While we appreciate your quick attention in responding to the complaint, we remind the 
Boards that when they receive an Open Meeting Law complaint, the public body must meet to review the complaint 
and formulate a response, or meet to delegate that authority. 
===PAGE 2===
Following our review, we find that the Boards did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
because the posted meeting notices accurately reflected what was reasonably anticipated by the 
Boards 48 hours before the meeting. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. 
On or around October 13, 2011, the Ashby Board of Selectmen posted notice for an 
October 24, 2011 "Joint Meeting with Ashburnham Board of Selectmen; Working Session to 
Enter into Executive Session." The meeting notice was created by the assistant to the Board of 
Selectmen, Jennifer Collins, and listed only one item for discussion, "Selectmen Enter Executive 
Session to Conduct Contract Negotiations with Non-union Personnel and will Reconvene in 
Open Session."2  
On or around October 19, 2011, the Ashburnham Board of Selectmen posted notice for 
an October 24, 2011 joint meeting with the Ashby Board of Selectmen. The meeting notice was 
created by the assistant to the Town Administrator, Sylvia Turcotte, and the anticipated 
discussion topics were divided into five sections. Section "IV. Post Trial Options" included the 
following sub-topic: 
B. Regionalize 
- Enter into Executive Session to deliberate upon matters which, if done in open meeting 
could detrimentally affect the position of the Town regarding strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining and contract negotiations with non-union personnel and to only 
reconvene into open session to adjourn. 
According to the Town Administrator,3  at the time both meeting notices were created, the 
Boards anticipated they might need to go into executive session to negotiate his contract, and 
they communicated that to their respective assistants for inclusion in the meeting notices. 
Sometime after the notice was posted, but before the meeting, the Boards decided this issue 
should be discussed in open session. The notice was not updated to reflect this, however. 
A joint, open session meeting of the two boards was held on October 24, 2011. The 
meeting was not recorded. The Ashburnham Board's minutes from the October 24, 2011 
meeting track the items on its posted agenda. During the discussion of item number two, the 
Chair noted that the purpose of the meeting was "to see how things were going with the sharing 
of Doug Briggs as Town Administrator in both Towns." After hearing from several individuals 
about how things had gone in the previous seven weeks, the bodies then discussed their goals 
and expectations for the next five weeks, and then moved on to item four "Post Trial Options." 
At this point, the consensus between the Boards appeared to be that they wanted to continue the 
trial sharing of the Town Manager through the budget cycle, at which point they would be in a 
2  Both boards were aware at the time their meeting notices were created that the contract of specific non-union 
personnel, namely the Town Administrator, would be a topic of discussion. Both meeting notices should, therefore, 
have specifically stated that the Boards would be meeting in executive session to negotiate a contract extension with 
the Town Administrator. See OML 2011-44; OML 2011-15. 
3  For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
better position to determine whether the arrangement should continue long term. The minutes 
state that the Chair commented "he was optimistic and that they would extend the agreement for 
another 3 months." It is unclear from the minutes whether a formal vote was taken to extend the 
Town Administrator's contract, however at some point it was, ultimately, extended. Similarly, 
the Ashby Board's minutes state that "[b]oth Boards agree that we want to see the trial period 
extended through the budget cycle" and conclude by saying "[Noth Boards agreed to an 
extension of the trial period for an additional 3-4 months to be determined by both chairs out of 
session." The Ashby Board's minutes also do not reflect any formal vote on this point. 
Following this discussion, the meeting adjourned, and no executive session was ever held. 
According to the Boards' response, "there was no need for an executive session based on the 
outcome of the discussion." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice for their meetings 48 
hours in advance, and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). However, when a topic arises that was not 
listed in a meeting notice but that the chair did not reasonably anticipate 48 hours before the 
meeting, the public body may address the topic. $ee OML 2011-36; OML 2011-23; OML 2011- 
13. 4  Public bodies are encouraged not to discuss or vote on items that arise within that 48 hour 
period or during a meeting if the topic can be postponed until a later date and added to a properly 
posted meeting notice. See OML 2011-13. Such efforts to provide public notice further the 
Open Meeting Law's objective of "[eliminating] much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). 
Here, the Boards gave notice that they would be discussing non-union contracts, but 
stated that the discussion would occur in executive session. In past determinations, we have 
found that discussion of a topic in open session that was originally noticed for discussion during 
executive session did not violate the Open Meeting Law, where the chair of the public body did 
not anticipate the topic would be raised in open session. OML 2012-56. It appears that the two 
boards did not anticipate haying this discussion in open session at the time the notices were 
posted. At some point within the 48 hours before the meeting, however, the Boards decided to 
hold the discussion in open session. While the Boards should have updated their meeting notices 
to reflect this change, their failure to do so did not violate the Open Meeting Law because the 
posted notice accurately reflected what was reasonably anticipated by the Boards 48 hours before 
the meeting. Nevertheless, because the Boards did not update their meeting notices, members of 
the public with an interest in the topic had no way of knowing that a public discussion would 
occur. For this reason, we encourage the Boards in the future to either update their meeting 
notices or postpone discussion on items initially slated for executive session if they decide prior 
to or during a meeting to hold the discussion on open session. 
With regard to the complainant's allegation that the failure to update the meeting notice 
denied her an opportunity to participate in the meeting, we note that even if the Boards had 
amended the notices to alert the public to the fact that this discussion would occur in open 
4  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
3 
===PAGE 4===
session, the Boards were not required to allow any member of the public to participate in that 
discussion. See OML 2012-78; OML 2011-2. The Open Meeting Law states that, "[n]o person 
shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at 
the request of the chair, be silent." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). Thus, the chair has discretion over who 
may address the public body. See id. 
As a final matter, we remind the Boards that the Open Meeting Law requires that a public 
body "create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting 
forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on 
each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and 
the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a) 
(emphasis added). Minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the 
public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of 
what occurred. See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. Both boards' minutes from the October 24, 
2011 meeting reflect that they agreed to a three month extension of the trial period for the Town 
Administrator, but it is unclear whether or not a vote was taken to do so. Because there is no 
audio or video recording of the meeting, we are unsure whether such a vote did actually occur, 
but we remind the Boards that where votes are taken, this information must be included in the 
minutes. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Boards did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Boards. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions or 
believe any facts in this letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Amy L. Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 G. Lillian Whitney 
Ashby Board of Selectmen 
Ashburnham Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
4 