===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASH BURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
October 9, 2015 
Laura Fogel 
5 Chickadee Lane 
North Easton, MA 02356 
RE: Request for Reconsideration Concerning OML 2015-89 
Dear Ms. Fogel: 
Our office received your e-mail, dated July 15, in which you request our 
reconsideration, in part, of Open Meeting Law determination OML 2015-89 (issued June 30). 
Specifically, you ask that we reconsider our decision to decline review of one of your two 
allegations because it was not timely filed.1 In support of this request, you state that you 
could not have learned that the Easton School Committee (the Committee) discussed a topic 
during a meeting that was not on the meeting notice until the minutes of that meeting were 
provided to you. For the reasons stated below, we decline to reconsider our decision 
regarding this allegation. 
There is no statutory right to reconsideration by the Office of the Attorney General of 
an Open Meeting Law determination. While the Division of Open Government generally 
will not reconsider past determinations, the Division will grant reconsideration where the 
request identifies a clerical or mechanical error in the determination or a significant legal or 
factual issue that the Division may have overlooked or misapprehended in resolving the 
complaint. Your request does not identify any mechanical error in the determination or a 
significant legal or factual issue that the Division overlooked, but rather reflects a 
disagreement with our interpretation of the law. 
Although you assert in your July 15 email that Assistant Attorney General Hanne 
Rush did not address when this alleged violation was reasonably discoverable, footnote 2 to 
OML 2015-89 states: 
1 In a July 23 email to this office, you additionally state that we failed to address in our determination "the fact 
that the School Committee made a motion to reconsider the school year calendar which was not timely. And 
that they eliminated religious holidays, while keeping Christmas Eve as a day off from school, which is 
discriminatory against those who do not celebrate Christian holidays, as well as hypocritical and insincere." 
The Division of Open Government's review concerns only compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. Therefore, we offer no opinion as to whether any other law, Committee rule, or school district 
policy was violated by the actions at issue. 
1 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
When an alleged violation occurs in open session, the alleged violation can 
reasonably be discovered at the time it occurs. See OML 2014-85; OML 2012-52. 
Here, the discussion at issue occurred in an open session meeting. Therefore, any 
allegation concerning the sufficiency of the notice for that discussion should have 
been filed within 30 days of the February 13 meeting. 
Your complaint was filed with the Committee on April 30, more than two months 
after the meeting at issue. Accordingly, we found the allegations concerning the February 13 
meeting untimely. Your request for reconsideration offers no facts that were not already 
considered in reaching our conclusion. Therefore, we decline to reconsider or amend our 
determination. See OML Declination 05-21-12 (Montague Board of Selectmen)(noting 
"[t]hat the complainant chose not to attend that particular meeting does not change the fact 
that any member of the public could have attended the meeting and learned of the alleged 
violations on that date."). 
Although we consider this matter closed, we note that three or more registered voters 
may initiate a civil action to enforce the Open Meeting Law in Superior Court. See 
GL. c. 3OA, § 23(f). 
Sincerely, 
Amy-LrNable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: Easton School Committee 
Andrew Keough, School Superintendent, Easton Public Schools 
2 
===PAGE 3===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 30, 2015 
OML 2015-89 
Andrew Keough, School Superintendent 
Easton Public Schools 
55 Oliver Street 
PO Box 359 
North Easton, MA 02356 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Keough: 
This office received a complaint from Laura Fogel, dated May 13,1 alleging that the 
Easton School Committee (the Committee) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 
18-25. The complaint alleges that a topic on the notice for the Committee's February 13 
meeting did not include sufficient detail.2 The complaint further alleges that the Committee 
failed to approve the minutes from its February 13 meeting until after the Committee's March 
5 meeting. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about April 30, and 
you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated May 6.3 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by ipformal action in accordance 
with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. The Committee meets once per month and generally approves its meeting minutes at 
the following meeting. In this instance, the Committee's February 13 meeting minutes were 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 We decline to review this allegation because we find it untimely. Complaints alleging violations of the Open 
Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). 
When an alleged violation occurs in open session, the alleged violation can reasonably be discovered at the time 
it occurs. See OML 2014-85; OML 2012-52. Here, the discussion at issue occurred in an open session meeting. 
Therefore, any allegation concerning the sufficiency of the notice for that discussion should have been filed 
within 30 days of the February 13 meeting. Moreover, you received a letter that was sent to parents on February 
17, notifying them that the Committee discussed various options regarding the school calendar, mcluding the 
elimination of religious holidays, during its February 13 meeting and planned to do so again during its March 5 
meeting. Because you did not file your complaint until two months after the date of that letter, we find this 
allegation untimely and decline to review it. 
3 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 4===
not approved at the Committee's next meeting on March 5, but instead were approved at the 
following meeting held on April 9. 
Minutes of all open sessions shall be approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. BOA, 
§ 22(c). The Open Meeting Law does not provide a definition of "timely manner," but we 
have recommended that minutes be approved at the next meeting whenever possible. See 
OML 2015-43; OML 2013- 173; OML 2013-37.4 We find that, despite the Committee's 
deviation from its general practice of approving minutes at its next meeting, its approval of 
the minutes at the following meeting, on April 9, did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
Furthermore, we are satisfied that the Committee understands its obligations regarding the 
approval of minutes and that the slight delay in approval here was the result of exceptional 
circumstances. 
Finally, although not alleged in the complaint, we remind the Committee that, while a 
public body may authorize an individual such as the School Superintendent to respond on the 
public body's behalf, the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General's regulations require 
that the entire Committee first review the Open Meeting Law complaint. See G.L. c. 3OA, 
§ 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). It does not appear that the Committee reviewed this complaint 
prior to Mr. Keough's response. 
We now consider this matter closed. Please contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if 
you have any questions. 
cc: Lauren Fogel 
Easton School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 