===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
June 6, 2024 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Kathleen LeClair  
 
 
 RE:  Reconsideration of OML 2023-130 
 
Dear Kathleen LeClair: 
 
By email on August 9, 2023, you requested reconsideration of our August 8, 2023, Open 
Meeting Law determination, OML 2023-130, resolving three complaints that you filed 
concerning the Old Rochester Regional School Committee (“Committee”), the Old Rochester 
Regional School Committee Equity Subcommittee (“Equity Subcommittee”), and Old Rochester 
Regional School Committee Policy Subcommittee (“Policy Subcommittee”).  Collectively, the 
complaints alleged that “accurate detailed minutes as required by state law are not available for 
public review” for meetings held by the Policy Subcommittee and the Equity Subcommittee 
between 2020 to 2022, and that the Committee and Equity Subcommittee violated state law and 
school policy by not obtaining—and documenting in meeting minutes—approval for book 
donations to the school libraries.  In our determination, we found that the Committee and the 
Subcommittees did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  By email on January 4, 2024, you limited 
your request for reconsideration to the two complaints concerning the Subcommittees and only 
to the allegations concerning meeting minutes.    
 
We apologize for the delay in reviewing the request for reconsideration.  There is no 
statutory right to reconsideration by the Office of the Attorney General of an Open Meeting Law 
determination or declination.  While the Division generally will not reconsider past 
determinations, the Division may grant reconsideration where the request identifies a clerical or 
mechanical error in the determination or a significant legal or factual issue that the Division may 
have overlooked or misapprehended in resolving the complaint.   
 
In OML 2023-130 we stated, “The complainant provided numerous sets of meeting 
minutes to our office, but the complaints do not allege that any particular meeting minutes are 
insufficient, nor what specifically may be missing from any of the meeting minutes.  Our office 
will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations; complaints must 
allege violations with a degree of specificity.”  Following the issuance of that determination, you 
pointed out that within the packets of meeting minutes that you had provided to this office, you 
had included descriptions of the specific deficiencies that you alleged with regard to the Policy 
Subcommittee’s and Equity Subcommittee’s meeting minutes.  Because we overlooked that 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
portion of your submission, we grant your request for reconsideration and reissue the 
determination.  We now conclude that the Committee and the Policy Subcommittee did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law, but that the Equity Subcommittee created insufficiently detailed 
minutes for several meetings.  
      
 
       Sincerely, 
        
       Carrie Benedon    
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Peter C. Sumners, Esq. (via email: psumners@mlmlawfirm.com) 
 Old Rochester Regional School Committee (via email: mikenelson@oldrochester.org) 
 
 
 

===PAGE 3===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
June 6, 2024 
 
       OML 2023 – 130 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Peter C. Sumners, Esq. 
Murphy, Lamere & Murphy, P.C. 
psumners@mlmlawfirm.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Sumners: 
 
This letter resolves three complaints filed by Kathleen LeClair on April 10, 2023, 
alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The first complaint was 
originally filed with the Old Rochester Regional School Committee (“Committee”); the second 
complaint was originally filed with the Old Rochester Regional School Committee Equity 
Subcommittee (“Equity Subcommittee”); and the third complaint was originally filed with the 
Old Rochester Regional School Committee Policy Subcommittee (“Policy Subcommittee”), all 
on February 3, 2023.  The Committee and Subcommittees responded to the respective 
complaints by separate letters dated March 9, 2023.  Collectively, the complaints allege that 
“accurate detailed minutes as required by state law are not available for public review” for 
meetings held by the Policy Subcommittee and the Equity Subcommittee between 2020 to 2022, 
and that the Committee and Equity Subcommittee violated state law and school policy by not 
obtaining—and documenting in meeting minutes—approval for book donations to the school 
libraries. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee and the Policy Subcommittee did not 
violate the Law.  However, we find that the Equity Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting 
Law by creating insufficiently detailed meeting minutes for several meetings.  In reaching this 
determination we reviewed the original complaints, the responses to the complaints, and the 
Complainant’s requests for further review.  We also reviewed minutes of Equity Subcommittee 
and Policy Subcommittee meetings that the complainant provided to this office, along with the 
complainant’s corresponding descriptions of alleged deficiencies with each set of minutes. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
===PAGE 4===
2 
 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  When reviewing minutes for 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy 
requirement.  See OML 2013-64.
1  By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should 
contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See OML 
2012-106.  A transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or 
opinion presented.  See OML 2017-104; OML 2016-40.  Nonetheless, the Open Meeting Law 
requires that meeting minutes include more than a statement that a public body held a discussion 
about a specified topic; the Law requires that the minutes summarize the discussion that was 
held.  See OML 2020-57; OML 2019-167.   
  
The complaints allege that “accurate detailed minutes” do not exist for Equity 
Subcommittee meetings held between October 5, 2020, and June 21, 2022, nor for Policy 
Subcommittee meetings held between November 2020 and September 2022.
2  The complainant 
provided our office with copies of the minutes for all meetings held during those time periods, 
along with statements regarding the alleged deficiencies with each set of minutes.  We do not 
herein discuss each point with regard to each of the 23 sets of meeting minutes, but address 
categories of concerns that the complainant identified.  
 
As a preliminary matter, we note that the complainant acknowledges she did not attend 
any o
f the meetings in question.  Therefore, in the absence of specific allegations that particular 
matters were discussed yet omitted from the meeting minutes or that discussions that occurred 
were insufficiently summarized, we do not conduct broad audits of the Subcommittees’ meetings 
and meeting minutes to determine whether additional matters were discussed which were not 
recorded in the minutes.  See OML 2023-16; OML 2022-214; OML Declination 7-18-12 (Cotuit 
Board of Fire Commissioners).  For example, the complainant alleges that the minutes of both 
Subcommittees’ meetings fail to indicate that minutes of the prior meeting were reviewed and 
approved.  However, the complainant does not assert that either Subcommittee actually reviewed 
and approved meeting minutes during the meetings at issue, and we find no indication that they 
did.  Similarly, the complainant provided numerous comments and questions regarding Equity 
Subcommittee meeting minutes, seeking additional background or context regarding matters of 
interest, without any indication that such matters were actually discussed.  For example, 
 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found on the Attorney General’s website at https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
2 Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the 
alleged violation, or if the alleged violation could not have been known at the time it occurred, then within 30 days 
from reasonable discovery of the alleged violation.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4).  When an alleged 
violation occurs in open session, the alleged violation can reasonably be discovered at the time it occurs.   See OML 
2014-85; OML 2012-52; OML Declination 2-1-17 (West Bridgewater Board of Water Commissioners).  Complaints 
regarding the sufficiency or accuracy of open session meeting minutes generally must be filed within 30 days of the 
date on which those minutes were approved.  See OML 2015-26; OML 2011-28; OML Declination 5-4-2012 
(Sheffield Planning Board).  Here, the Subcommittees were unable to confirm when the meeting minutes at issue 
were approved, though they do not suggest the minutes were still in draft form.  We find no indication that the 
minutes were approved during an open meeting or otherwise in a manner that would reasonably be known by a 
member of the public.  The complainant first received the meeting minutes in response to a public records request 
approximately a week before filing the complaints.   
===PAGE 5===
3 
 
regarding the Equity Subcommittee’s December 22, 2020, meeting minutes, which state that the 
Equity Subcommittee met with consultant Christine Brown, the complainant states, “[t]he reader 
has no information on how the district met and engaged with Christine Brown or how the 
Committee was authorized to engage Ms. Brown.  It is unclear if other consultants were 
interviewed or assessed.  What type of work was she engaged to do, what would her fees be and 
how would those fees be paid.”  However, there is no indication that any such matters were 
discussed during that meeting.  Likewise, regarding the Equity Subcommittee’s October 5, 2020, 
meeting minutes, which attach slides of a PowerPoint presentation that includes a reference to a 
survey, the complainant states, “[g]iven that a subcommittee has no authority to take actions... 
conducting this survery would be considered an action item that needed approval from the Joint 
Committee.  Where in the minutes can the reader confirm that committee sought approval for 
this action item from Joint Committee prior to conducting the survey?  The minutes do not 
provide the reader any information on discussion as to when this survey was conducted and who 
would take the survey.”  The complainant also notes additional concerns or questions regarding 
the survey.  Again, there is no indication that such matters were discussed.  
 
If a matter was not discussed during a meeting, then it appropriately was not included in 
the m
inutes.  The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body discuss any particular 
matter nor that it discuss a matter in any particular depth.  See OML 2023-47; OML 2023-37; 
OML 2022-231.  Instead, the Law requires that meeting minutes accurately summarize what was 
actually discussed.  See OML 2023-76; OML 2023-35; OML 2022-189; OML 2016-155 
(explaining that minutes should reflect what was actually discussed at a meeting, not matters that 
were not discussed).  Therefore, in the absence of specific information indicating that the details 
or matters raised by the complainant were actually discussed, we do not review the sufficiency of 
the minutes with regard to such matters. 
 
Relat
edly, we find that the Committee and Equity Subcommittee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to document approval for school library book donations in meeting 
minutes.  The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  Therefore, we do not review whether, as the complaints 
allege, the Committee and the Equity Subcommittee violated state law, G.L. c. 71, § 37A, and 
school policy by failing to formally approve school library book donations during posted 
meetings.  Moreover, the Committee and Equity Subcommittee represent that they did not 
approve book donations during their meetings.  Where a topic was not discussed, we find that the 
Committee and Subcommittee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to include such 
topic in their meeting minutes.  
 
The complainant also asserts that the Equity Subcommittee’s meeting minutes do not 
“provi
de the reader any information on who started, presented or chaired this meeting.”  Meeting 
minutes must identify “the members present or absent” and include a summary of the discussions 
on each subject; however, there is no requirement in the Open Meeting Law that the minutes 
document who started, presented, or chaired a meeting.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); see also OML 
2012-41 (explaining that minutes need not identify each speaker by name).  Therefore, the lack 
of such information does not violate the Law.   
 
 
===PAGE 6===
4 
 
The complainant does, however, identify numerous points where minutes of the Equity 
Subcommittee’s meetings state that discussions were held regarding particular topics, without 
any substantive summary of the discussion that occurred.  In response to the complaint, the 
Equity Subcommittee explains that nearly all meetings included PowerPoint presentations, which 
were appended to each set of minutes, and therefore the written minutes in conjunction with the 
corresponding slides “contain the requisite summary of the discussions.”  We disagree.  
Attaching a report or a presentation does not serve as a substitute for summarizing discussions 
that occurred.  See OML 2023-11; OML 2016-35 (“[s]imply attaching the statement does not 
meet the [public body’s] obligation to summarize the discussion in its minutes.”).  Moreover, a 
PowerPoint presentation that was prepared in advance of a meeting cannot possibly summarize 
the Equity Subcommittee’s own discussions during the meeting.       
 
By wa
y of example, minutes of the Equity Subcommittee’s October 5, 2020, meeting 
state, “Purpose of Sub-Committee: committee members discussed its purpose, we heard from 
community members including student voice,” without any summary of the discussion.  Minutes 
of the Equity Subcommittee’s February 10, 2021, meeting similarly state that the “committee 
reviewed all the work that has been date [sic] up to this point”; “committee had a discussion 
about developing structure and systems”; and “committee had a discussion about the direction of 
the group.”  Again, the minutes do not summarize any of those discussions.  Minutes of the 
Equity Subcommittee’s March 9, 2021, meeting, which was two hours in duration, provide, in 
substance, as follows: 
 
1. Panorama Survey Data Review – committee reviewed and discussed 
panorama survey data. 
2. Update on Student Focus Groups – committee received an update from the 
Student Focus Groups. 
3. Introduction to Equity Pause – “Equity Pause” was introduced and the 
committee discussed and took time to answer different questions. 
4. Student Voices – the committee heard from students about their 
experiences. 
5. Policy Discussion – the committee discussed review of policy manual. 
 
In some instances, the complainant points to reports that were submitted to the Old 
Rochester Committee, the Rochester Memorial Committee, and other local school committees, 
which include recaps of Equity Subcommittee meetings that are far more detailed than the 
corresponding meeting minutes.  For example, Minutes of the Equity Subcommittee’s January 
25, 2022, meeting, which was 90 minutes in duration, include only a listing of topics: 
 
1. Introductions 
2. Cultural Proficiency Meeting Updates (3-5 minutes per school) 
3. Black History Month 
4. Building Equitable Supports (Part 2) 
5. Subcommittee name 
6. Teacher Diversification PLC 
7. Grant Update 
 
===PAGE 7===
5 
 
In contrast, the report provided to the Old Rochester Committee regarding that meeting 
elaborated on the matters discussed, which underscores the insufficiency of the meeting minutes.   
 
 We reiterate that the Open Meeting Law r
 equires that meeting minutes include a 
substantive summary of the discussion on each topic.  See OML 2020-57; OML 2018-8; OML 
2012-29.  The Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes include more than a statement 
that a public body held a discussion about a topic; the Law requires that the minutes summarize 
the discussion that was held.  See OML 2020-57; OML 2019-167.  Although we do not discuss 
all of the complainant’s concerns with the Equity Subcommittee’s meeting minutes, we find that 
nearly all of the Equity Subcommittee’s minutes of meetings held between October 5, 2020, and 
June 21, 2022, include mentions that the Equity Subcommittee engaged in discussion without 
any summary of the discussion, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee and the Policy Subcommittee 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  We find that the Equity Subcommittee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by creating meeting minutes that lack a sufficiently detailed summary of the 
discussions on each topic.  We order the Equity Subcommittee’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law and note that future similar violations may be 
considered evidence of an intent to violate the law.  Additionally, we order the Equity 
Subcommittee, within 90 days of receipt of this letter, to amend minutes of its meetings held 
between October 5, 2020, and June 21, 2022, to include summaries of the discussions on each 
topic, in accordance with the guidance provided in this letter.  The Equity Subcommittee should 
amend these minutes to the best of its ability, using any means available to it, including notes, 
records, reports, and the recollections of its members and staff members. 
 
Although we order the Subcommittee to create minutes to the best of its ability, we 
acknowledge the potential infeasibility of accurately capturing the substance of discussions that 
occurred during meetings held two to three years ago, and we remind the Subcommittee that 
minutes must accurately capture what was actually discussed during a meeting. Within 90 days 
of receipt of this letter, the Subcommittee shall certify to our office that it has complied with this 
order.  If the Equity Subcommittee is unable to create accurate amended minutes for all 
meetings, it must, within 90 days of receipt of this letter, explain to this office in writing what 
efforts it made to create sufficiently detailed meeting minutes. 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee, Equity Subcommittee, or Policy Subcommittee.  Please feel free to contact the 
Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 

===PAGE 8===
6 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Old Rochester Regional School Committee (via email: mikenelson@oldrochester.org) 
 Kathleen LeClair (via email: ) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
