===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 18, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 232 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Marko Samardzic 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
marko@mtclawyers.com  
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Samardzic: 
 
This office received a complaint from Alan Dias on July 13, 2023,
1 alleging that the 
Hanson Planning Board (the “Board”), and specifically its chair Joseph Campbell, violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on 
or about May 31, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated June 15. The 
complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to identify the 
individual to be discussed in executive session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) or disclose the 
reason this information was withheld. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, the request for further review, and the notice for and a recording of the 
Board’s May 8 meeting.
2 We also communicated with you and with Attorney Katherine 
Feodoroff, also of Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to m
embers of the public, unless an executive session is lawfully convened. See G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any one or 
more of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One such 
purpose allows a public body to convene in executive session to “discuss the reputation, 
character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A recording of the Board’s May 8 meeting may be found at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ki4AxxEXPqY. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, 
a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”). 
The individual to be discussed in such executive session must be notified in writing by the public 
body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session, and that individual has several 
rights as set forth in G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1).  
 
Prior to convening in executive session, the chair of the public body must announce in 
open ses
sion the purpose for the executive session, “stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.” G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
21(a), (b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 
561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is 
necessary . . . because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would 
conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so 
was proper or improper”). This level of detail about the executive session topic must also be 
included in the meeting notice. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2016-72.
3 
 
The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on May 8. Among other topics, the 
notice included a Purpose 1 executive session topic which did not identify the individuals to be 
discussed. Likewise, the Chair’s announcement prior to convening in executive session on May 8 
did not identify the individuals to be discussed.  
 
The complaint alleges that the meeting notice and the
  announcement prior to convening 
in executive session were insufficient because they did not identify the individuals to be 
discussed in executive session or disclose the reason their names were withheld. A public body 
must disclose as much information as possible about what will be discussed in executive session 
without compromising the lawful purpose for secrecy. See OML 2015-136. When discussing an 
individual in executive session pursuant to Purpose 1, a public body may omit identifying 
information about that individual from the meeting notice where the body is concerned about 
protecting the privacy of that individual. See OML 2017-74; OML 2016-15; OML 2013-141. 
Attorney Feodoroff informed our office that the Board was concerned about protecting the 
privacy of the individuals who were to be discussed in executive session on May 8.
4 Moreover, 
the Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body note on the meeting notice or state in 
the announcement the reason identifying information has been withheld, although that may be 
helpful. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). 
  
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 Attorney Feodoroff also confirmed that the individuals discussed in executive session on May 8 were given the 
required 48 hours’ written notice of the executive session meeting and of their rights under Purpose 1. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
 
Sincerely,  
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Hanson Planning Board via Antonio M. De Frias, Town Planner (via email:  
tdefrias@hanson-ma.gov) 
Katherine Feodoroff, also of Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC (via email: 
kate@mtclawyers.com)  
Elizabeth Sloan, Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@hanson-ma.gov) 
Alan Dias (via email ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
