===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
January 31, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 13 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Brian Riley, Esq.  
K.P. Law P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on September 1, 2021, alleging 
that the Freetown Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 23, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated September 1.1 In his complaint, Mr. Higgins 
alleges that the Board 1) failed to approve minutes of a July 13 meeting in a timely manner, 2) 
failed to announce the purpose for an August 17 executive session prior to convening the 
executive session, and 3) entered executive session on August 17 without a legal permissible 
purpose.  
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to timely approve minutes for the July 13 meeting and failing to announce the purpose for the 
August 17 executive session. We find no violation with respect to the other allegation. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed, in camera, 
minutes of the Board’s August 17 executive session which have not been released to the public.  
DISCUSSION 
1. The Board failed to approve minutes of a July 13 meeting in a timely manner. 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes must be reviewed 
and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Open Meeting Law itself does not 
define “timely manner.” However, the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations 
provide that “timely manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 
days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.” 940 
C.M.R. 29.1 (2). The Board concedes that, due to an oversight, the Board did not approve 
minutes for its June 13 meeting in a timely manner. We therefore find that the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law. The minutes of the June 13 meeting have since been approved.  
2. The Board failed to announce the purpose for an August 17 executive session prior to 
convening the executive session 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). A public body 
may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open 
Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of members 
of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is recorded by 
roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether the open 
session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see 
also OML 2014-94.2 
 Before entering the executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive 
session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the 
N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the 
reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only notification 
given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the 
public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”). 
 One permissible purpose for convening in executive session is to “conduct strategy 
sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.” G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(2) 
(“Purpose 2”). When convening in executive session under Purpose 2, public bodies should 
identify, both in their notice and in the open session announcement, the name of the specific 
nonunion personnel that is the subject of discussion under Purpose 2, unless disclosure would 
compromise the public body’s negotiating position. See OML 2015-193; OML 2016-70. The 
Board concedes that, due to an oversight, the Board did not announce the purpose for the August 
17 executive session. We therefore find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.  
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
3.  The Board entered executive session on August 17 for a permissible purpose — to 
discuss strategy in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel. 
 One permissible purpose for convening in executive session is to “conduct strategy 
sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.” G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(2) 
(“Purpose 2”). Mr. Higgins alleges that the Board should not have entered into executive session 
under Purpose 2 on August 17, because the Board had not yet held finalist interviews for the 
position of Interim Town Administrator. The Board conducted interviews in open session with 
five candidates after this executive session. The Board argues that the August 17 executive 
session properly related to strategy in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel.  
  We have reviewed the minutes of the Board’s August 17 executive session, in camera. 
As the minutes have not been released to the public, we do not describe their contents in detail. 
However, we note that the Board discussed, for less than 15 minutes, the salary range that would 
be considered during subsequent negotiations with the chosen finalist for the interim town 
administrator position. We are satisfied that the Board discussed strategy in preparation for 
negotiations with nonunion personnel, a proper executive session purpose. We therefore find that 
the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this respect.  
 Although not an issue alleged by Mr. Higgins in his complaint, we take this opportunity 
to offer guidance about the Open Meeting Law’s requirement that a public body or its chair or 
designee, at reasonable intervals, review the minutes of executive sessions to determine if 
continued nondisclosure of those minutes is warranted. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). Although 
“reasonable interval” is not defined by the Law, our office has found a quarterly review or a 
review every six months to be appropriate. See OML 2019-45; OML 2017-104; OML 2015-166; 
OML 2013-180. Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as 
long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. 
c. 30A, § 22(1). When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and 
any documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed, unless the attorney-client 
privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies. Id.  
 A public body’s obligation to review executive session minutes for possible release is 
ongoing. If a public body reviews executive session minutes and determines that the purpose for 
the executive session remains such that the minutes should continue to be withheld from the 
public, it must continue to review those same executive session minutes at reasonable intervals 
until it determines that the reason for secrecy has expired. See OML 2019-133. We remind the 
Board that at the meeting following each periodic review, the public body must announce which 
executive session minutes will be released and which will continue to be withheld at the next 
meeting following its review, and such announcement shall be included in the minutes. G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(g)(1); OML 2019-3; OML 2015-94. 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to timely approve minutes for the July 13 meeting and failing to announce the purpose for 
the August 17 executive session. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar 
violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via e-mail:  
 Freetown Board of Selectmen c/o Interim Town Administrator Deborah Pettey  
 (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
