===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
November 30, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 215 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq.  
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
gcorbo@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received a complaint from Nancy Ryan on October 24, 2022, and a separate 
complaint from Mary C. Dormer on behalf of Carver Concerned Citizens on October 24, 2022, 
both alleging that the Carver Council on Aging Board of Directors (the “Board”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  Ms. Ryan’s complaint was originally filed with the 
Board on September 30; Ms. Dormer’s complaint was originally filed with the Board on October 
4; and you responded to both complaints on behalf of the Board by letter dated October 21.
1  
Both complaints allege that during the Board’s September 29 meeting the Board, and specifically 
its Chair, did not allow public comment on matters not on the agenda, yet the Board refuses to 
add items to the agenda when requested by members of the public.  In addition, Ms. Ryan’s 
complaint alleges that the Board refused to allow the local Area 58 television station to film a 
meeting of the Board.2  Ms. Dormer’s complaint additionally alleges that the Board did not 
create minutes of the September 29 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s response to the 
 
1 All dates refer to the year 2022. 
2 Ms. Ryan’s complaint lists both the Council on Aging and the Select Board as public bodies  alleged to have 
violated the Open Meeting Law.  The complaint contains no apparent allegations regarding the Select Board, and 
Ms. Ryan did not respond to follow-up correspondence seeking to clarify whether the complaint alleged violations 
by the Select Board.  Therefore, we do not consider any alleged violations by the Select Board and treat the 
complaint as against the Council on Aging only. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
complaint, and the complainants’ request for further review. We also reviewed a video of the 
September 29 meeting recorded by Area 58.3 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
September 29.  The meeting notice included an agenda item “Public Comments,” and also 
included a note that “Meeting Comments directed to the board must be related to items 
specifically listed on the agenda, or to request that the board place a new item on a future 
agenda.”  The Board convened the meeting as scheduled, and after a few preliminary matters, the 
Board opened the meeting for public comment.  Ms. Dormer was the first speaker.  She stated 
she was speaking on behalf of Carver Concerned Citizens, and requested that several specified 
concerns from local seniors be placed on a future meeting agenda to be addressed.   
Next, Ms. Ryan spoke about senior center food policies, and was interrupted by the Chair 
and told to submit her concerns by email to be placed on a future agenda.  Ms. Ryan reiterated 
that she wanted the food policy to be placed on a future meeting agenda, and the Chair again 
requested that Ms. Ryan send an email.   
The following speaker expressed concern that members of the public had repeatedly 
requested that matters be placed on meeting agendas, to no avail.  The Chair interrupted this 
speaker as well, again stating that concerns needed to be submitted by email to be placed on a 
meeting agenda; the speaker expressed her view that requesting a discussion topic at a prior 
meeting should suffice and the Chair reiterated that requested topics must be emailed.
4  The 
speaker expressed her view that any resident should be able to speak during public comment 
about any matter of concern, at which time the Chair called for a recess.  Following the recess, 
the speaker continued to express that she believed any resident should be able to speak to the 
Board; the Chair responded that Board policy does not allow public comment on matters not on 
the agenda.  The Board then abruptly adjourned the meeting without discussing any other matters 
on the agenda. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of every meeting. G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b).  Notices must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must 
contain the date, time, and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed.  Id.  The law does not prohibit a public body from removing, 
postponing, or declining to discuss a topic listed on a meeting notice.  See OML 2022-109; OML 
2012-23. 5  Furthermore, the Open Meeting Law states that, “[n]o person shall address a meeting 
of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, 
be silent.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g). 
 
3 A video recording of the meeting is available online at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R6VpYuHl4Xo.  
4 Although not a matter within the scope of the Open Meeting Law, we note our concern that the Chair repeatedly 
stated that requested agenda topics must be submitted by email, yet we were unable to locate email contact 
information for the Chair, Board members, or staff on the Council on Aging’s website , 
https://www.carverma.gov/council-aging. 
5 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Here, the complaints allege that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by refusing to 
allow some members of the public to speak during public comment and by abruptly adjourning 
the meeting to prevent further comment.  Because the Board was not required to permit public 
comment during its meetings, and was not required to discuss all matters listed on the meeting 
notice, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2015-174; 
OML 2012-23.  We do, however, encourage public bodies to allow for as much public 
participation as time and circumstances permit, and we note that the Open Meeting Law does not 
require that public comment be limited to matters listed on the meeting notice.  See OML 2022-
100 (public body permissibly discussed an unanticipated topic that was raised by a member of 
the public during public comment, despite the topic not being included on the meeting notice); 
see also OML 2015-12; OML 2014-129; OML 2012-59. 
Next, Ms. Dormer’s complaint alleges that the Board did not create minutes of its 
September 29 meeting.  The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain 
accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and 
place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The meeting minutes 
must be reviewed and approved in a timely manner, which is defined as “within the next three 
public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show 
good cause for further delay.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); 940 C.M.R. 29.1 (2).  As the complaint was 
filed only five days after the meeting in question, minutes were not yet required, and the Board 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
Finally, the complaints include additional allegations that we decline to review for t
 he 
following reasons.  First, Ms. Ryan’s complaint alleges that the Board refused to allow Area 58 
Television to record a Board meeting.  The complaint does not specify which meeting the Board 
allegedly refused to allow be recorded although the complaint identifies violation dates of 
“8/2022; 9/29/2022.”  We note that the entirety of the September 29 meeting was recorded by 
Area 58, and any allegation regarding an August meeting was not timely filed.  See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4) (complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be 
filed with the public body within 30 days of the alleged violation, or if the alleged violation 
could not have been known at the time it occurred, then within 30 days from reasonable 
discovery of the alleged violation.).  Next, we decline to review allegations that the Board 
adjourned its September 29 meeting without a proper vote and that minutes of prior meetings 
were not posted online.  Our jurisdiction concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law; these 
allegations, even if true, would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 
Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners).  Except in limited 
ways not applicable here, the Open Meeting Law does not dictate matters of parliamentary 
procedure such as a requirement that an adjournment be preceded by a motion, second, and vote, 
see OML 2019-96, nor does the Law require that meeting minutes be posted to a website, see 
OML 2020-78.   
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Carver Concerned Citizens (via e- mail: ) 
Mary C. Dormer (via e-mail: ) 
Nancy Ryan (via e-mail: ) 
 Carver Council on Aging Board of Directors   
(via U.S. Mail, 48 Lakeview St, P.O. Box 618, South Carver, MA 02366) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
