===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 31, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 107 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Christina Constas, Esq. 
Assistant Corporation Counsel 
City of Boston Law Department 
Boston City Hall, Room 615  
Boston, MA 02201 
 
christina.constas@boston.gov 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Constas: 
 
This office received two complaints from Laura Ortiz on April 7, 2025, alleging that the 
Boston City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaints were originally filed with the Council on January 11, 2025, and you responded 
on behalf of the Council by letter dated January 31, 2025.  The complaints allege that the 
Council (1) deliberated outside of a posted meeting regarding a letter to Governor Maura Healey 
about the state’s emergency shelter policy; (2) posted notice of its January 8, 2025 meeting that 
was not sufficiently specific; and (3) approved minutes of its December 11, 2024, meeting (the 
“December 11 Meeting”) that were not sufficiently detailed.     
 
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, 
the Council’s response, and the request for further review.  We also reviewed materials 
forwarded by the complainant with her request for review.  We reviewed minutes of the 
December 11 Meeting, and the notice and minutes of the January 8, 2025, meeting.  Finally, we 
communicated with your office via email. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows.  On or about December 13, 2024, a letter was sent to 
Governor Maura Healey regarding changes to the state’s emergency shelter policy (“the 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Letter”).1  The Letter was signed by elected officials of 39 municipalities, including councilors 
constituting a quorum of the Council.  Neither the Council nor any of its members 
(“Councilors”) contributed to the preparation of the Letter.2  The letter was initially received by 
one of the Councilors via email from a Salem City councilor.  That email contained a link to the 
Letter, which was in the form of a Google doc.  The Google doc included a rolling list of names 
of councilors from across the Commonwealth who endorsed the Letter.  The Councilor who 
received the email from the Salem City councilor forwarded the Google doc link via email to 
their fellow Councilors individually with the message “Sharing this letter to the Governor re: 
shelter policy in case you would like to sign on.”  Councilors did not discuss the content of the 
Letter amongst themselves.  Councilors wishing to sign the Letter added their name directly to 
the Google doc.  As names were added, they could be seen by anyone who later accessed the 
Google doc.  The Councilors do not know how the letter was forwarded to the Governor.  
Councilors were not copied on the Letter when it was sent to the Governor. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Counc
 il deliberated about the Letter outside a meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when convened in executive session, “all 
meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A “meeting” is 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; . . . .”  Id.  
 
Here, one Councilor received the Letter in the form of a Google doc link and forwarded 
that link to the remaining Councilors.  By forwarding the Letter to a quorum of the Council, the 
Councilor engaged in deliberation.  First, sharing the link via email “in case you would like to 
sign on” constituted communication.  Second, for the reasons set forth below, the communication 
was on public business within the Council’s jurisdiction.   
 
The elected officials who signed the Letter explicitly reference the role their respective 
municipalities play in providing services to the unhoused population.  Indeed, it is in their 
capacity as elected officials that the signatories press their request that the Governor rescind 
certain restrictions.  The Letter opens with the statement that “We are writing as elected officials 
representing 39 cities and towns. . . .”  Signatories’ town and office are listed at the end of the 
letter.  The six Boston City Councilors are identified as such.  In support of the request that the 
Governor’s administration rescind recently enacted policies regarding access to shelters, and that 
 
1 There were prior iterations of the Letter as well.  Some of the communication may have concerned those prior 
iterations, not the one that was sent on December 13, 2024.  A complaint alleging deliberation outside a meeting 
may be found to be untimely if filed more than 30 days after the alleged violation.  See  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b) 
(requiring that complaint be filed within 30 days of the date of the alleged violation ).  However, we do not consider 
the timeliness of the complaint, as it was not raised by the Council. 
2 It appears that the Letter was prepared by member(s) of the Worcester and / or Salem City Council(s).  The Letter is 
also the subject of four other determinations issued contemporaneously herewith.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
it “invest more robustly in homelessness prevention and rehousing supports,” the signatories note 
that, among other things, the new shelter restrictions “leave[] municipalities to absorb the cost of 
Emergency Rooms, Fire, Police, and Inspectional Services.”  The Letter closes with a call for the 
Governor to “work with state and local leaders to develop thoughtful and humane policies.  We 
are committed to working with you to build solutions that will benefit and better the livelihood of 
all our residents in Massachusetts.”  Where the signatories express concern about the extra strain 
on municipal services and ask the Governor to work with them to “develop thoughtful and 
humane policies” and “build solutions,” the Letter, and the email forwarding it, touches on 
public business within the Council’s jurisdiction.   
 
The Council maintains that the Letter and email forwarding it deal only with state policy, 
which does not fall within the Council’s jurisdiction.  A topic falls outside the scope of a body’s 
jurisdiction where: (i) it does not involve the public body’s exercise of governmental business, 
policy, or administration; (ii) it relates to personal matters, such as the safety and well-being of 
public body members and/or their families; and (iii) collective action by the body, such as taking 
a vote, is not anticipated on the topic.  See OML 2018-1.
3   For example, where a local public 
body has no authority over, and plays no role in determining the location of a federal post office 
or the parking available at a store, those topics fell outside the body’s jurisdiction.  See OML 
2023-22.  Additionally, we have said that a topic is outside the jurisdiction of a public body if it 
is a political statement not likely to come before the body.  See OML 2014-135.   
 
Ultimate authority over a policy is not required to find that a discussion of that policy 
falls
 within the body’s jurisdiction.  See OML 2023-152 (“Even if the Council has no direct 
oversight or authority over the Police Department, it nonetheless has broad authority to set policy 
and to set the goals for the Town Manager, and its jurisdiction is similarly broad.”); OML 2022-
37 (“Here, even if the Board does not have ultimate authority to appoint or approve the 
appointment of the Director of Public Health, a discussion of the qualifications and suitability of 
the candidates for Director of Public Health, the person who would head the Department of 
Public Health which in turn carries out the Board’s directives, is a discussion that by its nature 
involves the Board’s exercise of governmental business, policy, and administration.”); OML 
2021-54 (question of whether to paint over pictures of biblical story of Noah’s ark on town 
playground was a matter of public business within selectboard’s jurisdiction even though Town 
Administrator was the town’s chief executive officer with authority over town playground).  
Moreover, jurisdiction of a public body is not so limited as to include only matters requiring a 
vote.  See OML 2020-160. 
 
Although the Letter here requests res
 cission of state policy regarding shelters, that state 
policy directly impacts municipal policy, decision making, and resource allocation, as explained 
in the Letter.  In that regard, the subject of the Letter is similar to letters the Princeton 
selectboard sent to Governor Charlie Baker and the Wachusett Regional School District, urging 
each to adopt a mask mandate and vaccine mandate in response to COVID-19.  We found the 
subject of those letters to be within the selectboard’s jurisdiction even though the selectboard had 
no authority to establish mask and vaccine policies on behalf of Governor Baker or the regional 
school district.  See OML 2022-23.   
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
We appreciate that the Boston City Councilor who forwarded the link to remaining 
mem
bers of the Council did so in neutral language and did not invite a discussion over email of 
the Letter’s merits.  Nonetheless, the Letter itself discussed a matter within the Council’s 
jurisdiction.  A one-way communication from one public body member to a quorum on matters 
within the body’s jurisdiction constitutes deliberation for purposes of the Open Meeting Law, 
even if no other public body member responds. See OML 2021-178; OML 2016-104; OML 
2012-73.  The Open Meeting Law does not carve out an exception to the definition of 
“deliberation” for discussions that do not result in a decision or vote.  See OML 2021-178; OML 
2020-93.  
   
It is also significant that when signing on to the Google doc, Councilors were able to see 
who els
e signed the Letter.  In other cases where we have found no deliberation, we have noted 
that the document was circulated by an outside party, and those signing did not know who else 
signed or that their signature would be communicated to any other member.  See, e.g., OML 
2025-103 (finding no violation where Cambridge city councilors added their names to identical 
letter at issue in the instant complaint; each city councilor independently contacted outside party 
to give authority to sign without copying fellow city councilors); OML 2025-104 (same as to 
Lynn city council); OML 2025-105 (same as to Medford city council); OML 2011-33 
(independent signing of petition did not constitute deliberation). 
 
Finally, the email circulating the Letter is not excepted from the Law’s definition of 
“del
iberation” as the distribution was not done in anticipation of a discussion at a meeting.  See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (establishing that “‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting 
agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the 
distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion 
of a member is expressed”).  In short, because circulation of the Letter via email constituted 
written communication among a quorum on public business within the Council’s jurisdiction, 
and it did not fall within the narrow exceptions to the definition of deliberation, we find that the 
Council violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
II. Notice of the Council’s January 8, 2025, meeting was insufficiently specific. 
 
The complainant alleg es that in the notice of its January 8, 2025, meeting, the Council 
failed to identify minutes to be discussed for approval.  The Open Meeting Law requires that, 
except in an emergency, “a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior 
to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The 
notice must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time 
and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed.  Id.  The list of topics shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public 
of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a 
topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35.  When 
review and approval of minutes is an anticipated topic of a meeting, notice of that meeting 
should identify the specific meeting minutes to be reviewed and approved. See OML 2025-57; 
OML 2020-34; OML 2013-199.   
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
Notice of the Council’s meeting of January 8, 2025, included as a topic “Approval of the 
minutes.”  At the January 8, 2025, meeting, the Council voted to “adopt” minutes of the 
December 11 Meeting.  Because the Council posted notice which did not identify the minutes to 
be approved at the January 8, 2024, meeting, it violated the Open Meeting Law.  
 
III. Minutes of the Council’s December 11 M
 eeting are insufficiently detailed. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minut
es of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  When reviewing minutes for 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy 
requirement.  See OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64.  By substantial compliance, we mean that the 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See 
OML 2025-18; OML 2012-106.   
 
Meeting minutes must include, among other things, “the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a
).  Because the Open Meeting Law requires a public body to create accurate minutes, 
all votes taken during a meeting must be accurately recorded.  Thus, to be accurate, minutes must 
document a roll call vote by listing the names of each public body member and how each voted.  
Even unanimous roll call votes should be recorded by roll call in the minutes.  See OML 2025-
54; OML 2015-131; OML 2013-195.   
 
Her
e, votes were conducted by roll call during the December 11 Meeting.  However, the 
minutes of that meeting do not reflect the vote of each Councilor by name.  Rather, the minutes 
record the votes as, for example, “the order was passed; yeas 11, present 1 (FitzGerald), not 
present 1 (Fernandes Anderson);” “the order was passed; yeas 13.”  
 
Because the minutes of the December 11 Meeting fail to record the roll call votes by 
documenting the vote of each Council member, we find that the Council violated the Open 
Meeting Law.  Had the minutes included a list identifying the members who were present at the 
meeting, then perhaps the minutes may have been sufficient where the vote of each member, 
recorded in that way, could be discerned from the minutes without reference to any other source 
of information.4  See, e.g., OML 2021-196 (finding minutes sufficient where the combination of 
listing the five Committee members present at the meeting, combined with the statement “5 
yeas” or “4 yeas, 1 nay” with the name of the Committee member voting in the negative, clearly 
 
4 Although not raised by the complainant, we note that minutes of the December 11 M eeting do not list the names of 
the Councilors present.  The Open Meeting Law requires that minutes of meetings include a list of the members who 
were present or the members who were absent.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); 940 CMR 29.11(1).  Minutes of the 
December 11 Meeting simply state “All Councilors present.”  As such, these minutes do not satisfy the Open 
Meeting Law’s requirement that the minutes set forth “the members present or absent.”  See  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  
We recommend that the Council amend the minutes of the December 11 Meeting to include the names of the 
members who were present, as no member was absent. 
 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
and accurately recorded the roll call vote of each Committee member).  However, minutes of the 
December 11 Meeting do not include a list of Council members present.  As such, the minutes 
are not a self-contained record of how each Councilor voted during the roll calls.  Therefore, the 
minutes of the December 11 Meeting fail to satisfy the requirements of the Open Meeting Law.   
 
IV. The violations are not intentional. 
 
The complainant maintains that the Council’s violations are “deliberate and willful” and 
asks
 that we fine the Council, among other remedies requested.  Upon the finding of a violation, 
the attorney general may issue an order to impose a civil penalty upon the public body of not 
more than $1,000 for each intentional violation.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional 
violation is an “act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of 
[the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 29.02.  An intentional violation may be found where the 
public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the law’s requirement or has previously been 
advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting Law.  Id.  We do not find this violation to 
be intentional.  There is no evidence that the Council willfully violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it acted as it did.  Moreover, the Council has not been previously warned about the 
violations that are the subject of this complaint. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it deliberated outside a posted meeting, posted a meeting notice that was not sufficiently 
specific, and approved minutes that were not sufficiently detailed.  We order immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations may 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We also order the release of any written communication, including emails, 
 between 
Councilors about the Letter and order the Council to amend the minutes of the December 11 
Meeting to record all roll call votes by documenting the vote of each Council member.5  We 
order the Council to certify to this office within forty-five (45) days of the date of this letter that 
it has done so.  See 940 C.M.R. 29.07(4).  
 
  
 
5 The Council may publicly release the emails by reading their content during a meeting and listing the emails in the 
meeting minutes, or by referencing the emails during a meeting and posting the emails along with the minutes on the 
municipal website. 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,  
  
  
Matt
hew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Laura Ortiz (via email: ) 
 Boston City Clerk (via email: cityclerk@boston.gov) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
