===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 18, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 47 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Janelle M. Austin, Esq. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
jaustin@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Austin: 
 
This office received a complaint from Wendy Williams on March 11, 2025, alleging that 
the Mashpee Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on January 7, and you responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated February 7.  The complaint alleges that the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law at its meeting on December 18, 2024 (“the December 18 Meeting”), when 
(1) Board Chair Mary Waygan declared a recess without a formal vote; (2) Chair Waygan 
conferred with two other Board members outside of the meeting room; and (3) Board member 
Karen Faulkner made “slanderous comments” about a resident who had just spoken out at a 
public hearing.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Board’s response, and the request for further review.  We also viewed portions of 
a recording of the December 18 Meeting.1   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows.  The Board is a five-member body; therefore, three 
members constitute a quorum.  The December 18 Meeting lasted almost three and a half hours.  
Approximately two hours and 26 minutes into the meeting, at the conclusion of a lengthy period 
of public comment, at least one Board member got up from her seat.  Less than one minute later, 
Chair Waygan announced that they would take a “quick break” and “then we’ll talk to Peter.”  
 
1 We accessed the recording at https://youtu.be/RzdcvuxFzoY. 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The recording then shows Chair Waygan making her way to the back exit of the room.  As she 
goes out of range of the camera, she can be heard saying “I have to freshen up,” adding in a 
light-hearted tone, “really bad.”  Chair Waygan reentered the room at approximately 2:30 on the 
recording timer, stopped to speak to someone near the Board’s table, and then took her seat.  The 
meeting resumed a few minutes after Chair Waygan re-entered the room. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board did not violate the Law when it recessed without a formal vote. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, setting forth, among other things, “the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The Law requires that if a 
vote is taken, it must be recorded accurately in the minutes; it does not require that all actions be 
subject to a vote.  See OML 2025-39.2  For example, the Open Meeting Law does not require a 
vote to adjourn the meeting of a public body.  See OML 2024-176.  Likewise, there is no 
requirement that a public body vote to take a recess.  Chair Waygan announced a “quick break” 
and referenced the next matter that would be discussed after the recess; she then left the room.  
In doing so, she did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  Cf. OML 2016-140 (Board violated Law 
when members got up from their seats without any announcement of a recess, leaving impression 
to anyone in attendance that meeting was adjourned, then resumed meeting following recess.) 
 
II. The Board did not deliberate during the recess of the December 18 Meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when convened in executive session, “all 
meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A “meeting” is 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; ….”  Id.  
 
The complaint alleges that during the recess, Chair Waygan “was seen conferring with 
two other board members” in the hall behind the meeting room.  The complainant states: “The 
word used to describe the behavior was ‘huddling.’”  It is not clear that the complainant herself 
observed the alleged “huddle.”  Rather, from the language of the complaint, it appears that the 
scene was described to her by a third party.  There is no further description of the alleged 
deliberation.  We have explained on many occasions that mere speculation or conjecture 
regarding deliberation outside of a posted meeting, without factual support, is insufficient to 
support a complaint's allegations.  See, e.g., OML 2025-15; OML 2024-91; OML 2024-14; OML 
2023-242; OML 2014-114; OML 2012-59.  The Board maintains that the recess was called as a 
bathroom break, and that the Chair went straight to the women’s restroom without speaking to 
anyone in the hall.  The recording of the December 18 Meeting supports the Board’s account.  
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
As the Chair leaves the meeting room, she can be heard saying that she needed to “freshen up … 
really bad.”  The meeting resumed approximately four minutes later.  Absent sufficient evidence 
to the contrary, we credit a public body’s account of the facts.  See OML 2025-43; OML 2023-
121; OML 2016-141; see also LaPointe v. License Bd. of Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) 
(“There is every presumption in favor of the honesty and sufficiency of the motives actuating 
public officers in actions ostensibly taken for the general welfare.”).  As there is no evidence that 
members of the Board deliberated outside of a meeting, we find no violation. 3   
 
III. We decline to review an allegation of slander. 
 
Finally, the complaint alleges that, when approached by a member of the public during 
the break, Board member Karen Faulkner “made slanderous comments about one of the 
townspeople who had just spoken out at the Public Hearing.”  The Division of Open 
Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
See OML 2024-140; OML 2021-172; OML 2015-87.  The allegation of slander, even if true, 
would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2024-238; OML 2017-
127; OML 2014-23.  Because slander by a Board member, even if true, would not constitute a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law, we decline to review this allegation.  Nevertheless, our 
office encourages  civility and professional conduct by all parties during meetings of public 
bodies. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely,  
  
  
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
 
 
3 To the extent that the complaint alleges that Chair Waygan engaged in deliberation with member Faulkner after 
she re-entered the room but before the Board reconvened, we likewise find no violation.  Even if Chair Waygan and 
member Faulkner discussed business within the Board’s jurisdiction during the break, it would not constitute 
deliberation, as less than a quorum would have been present.  However, we caution the Board against engaging in 
substantive conversation during meeting recesses, as it gives a semblance of improper deliberation. 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
cc: Wendy Williams (via email: ) 
Mashpee Planning Board Chair Mary Waygan (via email: 
) 
Mashpee Town Clerk (via email: ddami@mashpeema.gov) 
  
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
