===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 15, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 231 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Laurel A. Mackay, Esq, 
Deputy General Counsel for Policy and Programs  
Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection  
laurel.mackay@mass.gov 
 
 
 RE: Op
 en Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Mackay: 
 
This office received a complaint from Christopher Michaud, the Director of Public 
Health for the Town of Dartmouth, on February 23, 2023,
1 alleging that the Massachusetts 
Department of Environmental Protection’s (the “Department”) Title 5/Groundwater Stakeholder 
Group (the “Stakeholder Group”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Department on or about January 20, and Senior Legal 
Counsel Benjamin J. Meshoulam responded on behalf of the Department by letter dated February 
9. We understand the complaint to allege that the Stakeholder Group failed to comply with the 
Open Meeting Law in general, and specifically by not posting notice for an October 8, 2020, 
meeting. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Stakeholder Group is not a public body subject to 
the Open Meeting Law and therefore could not have violated the Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Department’s response, the 
request for further review, and additional response, documents, and communications from the 
Complainant. Additionally, we reviewed portions of video recordings of the Stakeholder Group’s 
October 8, 2020, meeting and the May 18, 2023, meeting of the Department’s Title 5 Advisory 
Committee (the “Advisory Committee”).
2 We also communicated with counsel for the 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the Stakeholder Group’s October 8, 2020, meeting can be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-RtKXhPy3rw. A video recording of the Advisory Committee’s May 18, 2023, 
meeting can be found at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OB61uhQCh9s. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Department on several occasions by both telephone and email and reviewed additional 
information provided by counsel.3 
 
FACTS 
 
As an initial matter, we note that there are two bodies at issue in this complaint. The first 
is the Advisory Committee, the existence of which is prescribed by 310 CMR 15.040 which 
provides, in part, that “[a]n Advisory Committee shall be appointed by the Commissioner of the 
Department to consult with the Department regarding the implementation of 310 CMR 15.000 
[(the “Title 5 Regulations”)] and to make recommendations regarding regulatory revisions as 
appropriate.” The second is the Stakeholder Group, which in contrast to the Advisory Committee 
is not prescribed by regulation or statute. Instead, the Stakeholder Group grew out of the 
Department’s efforts to comply with Governor Charles Baker’s 2015 executive order requiring 
each agency within the executive branch “to promptly undertake a review of each and every 
regulation currently published in the Code of Massachusetts Regulations under its jurisdiction.” 
Exec. Order No. 562 (Mar. 31, 2015) (the “Executive Order”). The Executive Order further 
declared that “only those regulations which are mandated by law or essential to the health, 
safety, environment or welfare of the Commonwealth’s residents shall be retained or modified.” 
As part of the process undertaken to comply with the Executive Order, the Department sought 
public input regarding its regulations. The Department received comments concerning dozens of 
topics, many seeking revised or new regulations addressing complex environmental issues. In 
order to address these comments and requests, the Department convened several stakeholder 
groups, including the Stakeholder Group.   
 
 The Stakeholder Group was convened to address comments received regarding 
wastewater and groundwater pollution, including requests that the Department address excessive 
nitrogen pollution around Cape Cod and the South Shore area. The Stakeholder Group met 
multiple times—including on October 8, 2020, the meeting at issue in the complaint—in an 
effort to assist the Department in developing options for addressing groundwater pollution. The 
Stakeholder Group also convened a Nitrogen Sensitive Area Subcommittee (the 
“Subcommittee”) specifically to address the challenging issue of nitrogen pollution.  
 
The Stakeholder Group consisted of approximately fifty participants, including 
individuals from various state agencies, builder associations, realty groups, and environmental 
groups, as well as engineers, local elected officials, and other individuals who asked to be 
included. Participants were invited to attend meetings but no members were appointed to the 
Stakeholder Group. The Stakeholder Group did not have a chair; instead, each meeting was 
facilitated by a member of the Department’s staff. The Stakeholder Group did not have a fixed 
membership, did not have a quorum requirement, and did not take any votes. Instead, the 
purpose of the Stakeholder Group was to share information, ideas, and advice with Department 
staff as the Department considered how to address issues raised during review of its regulations 
as required by the Executive Order.  
 
In 2022 the Department developed a proposal to address nitrogen pollution which 
included an entirely new permit program called the Watershed Permit Program and a new set of 
 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you and Attorney Meshoulam collectively and in the third person.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
regulations at 314 CMR 21.00 (the “Watershed Permit Regulations”). The new permitting 
program necessitated that amendments be made to the Title 5 Regulations. The proposed 
Watershed Permit Regulations and associated amendments to the Title 5 Regulations were 
presented for public comment on November 10, 2022. Thereafter, the Commissioner appointed 
and convened the Advisory Committee in accordance with 310 CMR 15.040 to advise on the 
proposed amendments to the Title 5 Regulations. The Advisory Committee met on May 18, 
2023, to review and make recommendations on the proposed amendments to the Title 5 
Regulations. The final Watershed Permit Regulations and amended Title 5 Regulations were 
promulgated on July 7, 2023. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
First, the Complainant asserts that 310 CMR 15.040 requires the Department to convene 
the Advisory Committee, which it ultimately did. The Complainant further asserts that the 
Stakeholder Group and the Advisory Committee served the same purpose and that, therefore, the 
Stakeholder Group is by default the Advisory Committee. As such, the Complainant asserts, the 
Stakeholder Group is a public body constituted pursuant to 310 CMR 15.040 and is subject to the 
Open Meeting Law. We disagree. We find that the Stakeholder Group and the Advisory 
Committee are not one and the same. The Stakeholder Group was one of many groups convened 
to provide feedback and guidance regarding comments the Department received as part of the 
global review of its regulations under the Executive Order. That one result of the Department’s 
work with the Stakeholder Group and the Subcommittee was proposed amendments to the Title 5 
Regulations does not automatically turn the Stakeholder Group into the Advisory Committee.
4  
 
Next, we must determine if the Stakeholder Group is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The law defines “public body,” in relevant part, as “a 
multiple member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or 
legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, 
appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
To determine whether the Stakeholder Group is a public body subject to the law, there are three 
factors to consider: 
 
1. The entity must be “within” government and not excluded from the definition of 
“public body”; 
2. The entity must be a “body,” empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a “public purpose.” 
 
The Stakeholder Group satisfies the first factor as it was created and overseen by the 
Department. The Stakeholder Group is an entity of the Department and is thus within 
government. See OML 2011-42.
5 The Stakeholder Group also satisfies the third factor where it 
provides important feedback and guidance to the Department regarding wastewater and 
 
4 The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 -
25. Therefore, we do not review, and we offer no opinion regarding, whether the Department has complied with 310 
CMR 15.040. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
groundwater pollution. Id. Al though the Stakeholder Group satisfies the first and third factors, 
we find that it is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law because it fails the second 
factor. 
 
The Stakeholder Group fails the second factor because it is not empowered to act 
colle
ctively. See OML 2023-206; OML 2019-135; OML 2015-162; OML 2012-20; OML 2012-
65; OML 2011-42. In the past, our office has declined to apply the Open Meeting Law to 
advisory groups that fail the second prong of the public body analysis. For example, we 
concluded that the Department of Early Education and Care Provider Working Team was not a 
public body for purposes of the Open Meeting Law, even though it was within government and 
served a public purpose, because the group “has no quorum requirement - [staff] meet with and 
solicit feedback from whichever members show up to meetings.” OML 2011-42. Here, we find 
that the Stakeholder Group shares certain qualities with the Care Provider Working Team. The 
Stakeholder Group had no quorum requirement, meetings would proceed regardless of the 
number of attendees, and the Stakeholder Group did not take any votes. Rather, the Stakeholder 
Group was essentially a focus group, providing information and expert guidance to the 
Department. Because the Stakeholder Group does not satisfy all three factors, as outlined above, 
we find that it is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law.
6,7 See OML 2022-54. 
 
  
 
6 Because we find that the Stakeholder Group does not satisfy all three factors and therefore is not a public body 
subject to the Open Meeting Law, we do not address the Department’s assertion that the complaint was untimely 
filed. However, we note that Open Meeting Law complaints must be filed within 30 days of the date of the alleged 
violation, or if the alleged violation could not have been known at the time it occurred, then within 30 days of the 
date on which the alleged violation should reasonably have been discovered. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 
29.05(3). When reviewing the timeliness of a complaint we consider when the action that is alleged to have violated 
the Open Meeting Law was reasonably discoverable, not when an individual complainant became aware of the 
action or of the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. See OML Declination 12-18-20 (Pembroke Board of 
Health); OML Declination 5-21-12 (Montague Board of Selectmen). 
7 Where we find that the Stakeholder Group is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law for the reasons 
stated, we need not address whether, as the Department asserts, the Stakeholder Group falls within the exception set 
forth in Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991). In Connelly, the Court held that where an 
individual public official, who is not himself subject to the Open Meeting  Law, creates a group to “assist him in 
carrying out his responsibility,” that group is not subject to the Open Meeting Law. Connelly, 409 Mass. at 235. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Stakeholder Group was not a public body 
subject to the Open Meeting Law and therefore could not have violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Stakeholder 
Group, the Department, or our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if 
you have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Christopher Michaud ( via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
