===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 16, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 112 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Chair James Mercer 
Great Barrington Housing Authority 
Board of Commissioners 
80 Maple Avenue, Suite 1 
Great Barrington, MA 01230  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Mercer: 
This office received two complaints from Madonna Meagher on January 28, 2021, and 
June 2, 2021, alleging that the Great Barrington Housing Authority Board of Commissioners (the 
“Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally 
filed with the Board on November 5, 2020, and April 14, 2021, respectively. The Board 
responded by letters dated December 2, 2020, and June 9, 2021.1 Ms. Meagher is the Assistant to 
the Executive Director of the Great Barrington Housing Authority. In her complaints, Ms. 
Meagher alleges that Board member Eileen Mooney deliberated outside of a posted meeting via 
email on several occasions. These complaints are similar to complaints we resolved in OML 
2020-136, where we found that Ms. Mooney individually, and intentionally, violated the Open 
Meeting Law by deliberating via email. 
Following our review, we find that Board member Eileen Mooney deliberated outside of 
a posted meeting via email on one occasion, but that the other emails that were the subject of the 
complaints did not constitute impermissible deliberation. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s response to the complaints, and the complainant’s 
request for further review. We also reviewed the emails Ms. Meagher alleges contain 
impermissible deliberation by Ms. Mooney.  
 
1 We remind the Board of its obligation to meet to review and respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 
business days of receipt, or within the time allotted pursuant to an extension granted by our office. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
DISCUSSION 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)- 
(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, 
however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling 
information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or 
documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (emphasis added).  
 For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is “a simple majority of the members 
of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A one-way communication from one public body 
member to a quorum on business within a body’s jurisdiction is deliberation, even if no other 
members respond. See OML 2020-136.2 However, individual public officials are not public 
bodies and therefore are not subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2021-3. As the Board’s 
staff members are not part of the Board, any emails sent by staff to the Board do not qualify as 
deliberation, even if they are sent to a quorum or more members of the Board. See OML 
Declination 5-16-19 (Bourne Town Clerk).3 
 There are several exceptions to the definition of deliberation, which are construed 
narrowly. See OML 2016-172; OML 2014-51. For example, deliberation does not include the 
distribution of meeting agenda or scheduling information. See OML 2015-69. Therefore, the 
Board emails we reviewed in which Ms. Mooney emailed the Board’s Chair with suggested 
agenda topics are not deliberations under the Open Meeting Law. Any emails relating to Board 
members’ registrations for a virtual conference are also not deliberation, as they contain mere 
scheduling and procedural information. Finally, in a brief April 8, 2021, email on which Ms. 
Mooney copied the entire Board, Ms. Mooney responded to an email from the Board’s Executive 
Director about the Housing Authority’s new job postings to ask, “How do residents at all three 
locations know about these job postings and that they have job preference?” We find that this 
email containing a question to the Executive Director in response to information the Executive 
Director had distributed was not improper deliberation because the email was administrative in 
nature and Ms. Mooney did not express an opinion in the email. G.L. c. 30A, § 18; see also OML 
2013-130 (finding no violation where Chair emailed Superintendent, copying other Board 
members to keep them informed, because the Chair’s communication was directed to the 
Superintendent, not the Board members, and was only meant to collect factual information, not 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
3 Although we are not concerned with serial communications in this case, we note that the Open Meeting Law does 
not permit public body members to engage in serial deliberations through a staff member or other individual to 
circumvent the prohibition on deliberation outside of a meeting. See OML 2020-53; OML 2018-49. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
to convey an opinion to the Board.); OML 2020-15 (certain administrative tasks are excluded 
from the definition of deliberation, “provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.”).   
 We do, however, find one instance in which Ms. Mooney emailed all Board members on 
matters within the Board’s jurisdiction, which did not fall within any of the exceptions to the 
Open Meeting Law’s definition of “deliberation.” On February 11, 2021, Ms. Mooney forwarded 
to all Board members an email that Ms. Mooney had sent to the Executive Director on February 
8. In the February 8 email, Ms. Mooney had posed twelve separate questions or requests for 
information to the Executive Director about many of the Housing Authority’s payments, bills, 
and recordkeeping practices. Many of the questions and requests clearly conveyed Ms. Mooney’s 
concern and dissatisfaction with how certain matters had been handled. For example, Ms. 
Mooney requested an explanation about a monthly payment for an accounting firm that was 
reduced because of a “contract decrease,” noted that there was no contract, reminded the 
Executive Director that she had been concerned about the amount of a prior payment, and asked 
whether the adjustment related to the prior concerns. Other parts of the email clearly questioned 
the propriety of payments made and alleged inconsistencies between invoice documentation and 
information that had been reported to the board.  
Although brief questions soliciting factual information from a third party without 
conveying an opinion, such as the question posed in Ms. Mooney’s April 8 email to the 
Executive Director, may be viewed as administrative in nature and not deliberation, see OML 
2013-130, questions and comments that convey opinions or viewpoints on matters within the 
public body’s jurisdiction may constitute deliberation. See OML 2013-29. We find that Ms. 
Mooney’s February 8 email, which she forwarded to the whole Board on February 11, went well 
beyond asking a straightforward question of the Executive Director, but rather conveyed Ms. 
Mooney’s opinions or concerns on several matters of Board business, and therefore stands in 
contrast to the other emails that we find do not constitute improper deliberation. We find that Ms. 
Mooney’s February 11 email, forwarding her February 8 email, constituted deliberation outside 
of a posted meeting, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.4  
 Determining which communications are purely “administrative” can be challenging, and 
email communications between a quorum of public body members - however innocent - may 
lend at least the appearance of improper deliberation. Therefore, our best advice continues to be 
that public bodies refrain from email communication between a quorum of their members except 
for distributing meeting agendas, scheduling meetings and distributing reports and documents to 
be discussed at meetings that do not contain opinions of members, which are administrative tasks 
specifically sanctioned under the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2013-29.  
 We are cognizant that Ms. Mooney may have felt that she needed to alert her fellow 
Board members to issues that she viewed as significant concerns with the Housing Authority’s 
operation. Ms. Mooney has previously expressed her frustration that Board members are not kept 
informed by the Housing Authority’s staff about Housing Authority business. She has also 
complained that the Board’s Chair does not always accept her suggestions for agenda items to be 
discussed at Board meetings, and therefore she is not able to communicate her concerns during 
 
4 If Ms. Mooney’s February 8 email had only ever reached the Executive Director, we would find such a 
communication to be permissible because the Executive Director is not a member of the Board. The violation 
occurred when Ms. Mooney herself forwarded that communication to a quorum of the Board. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
posted meetings. Regardless, the Open Meeting Law contains no exception allowing for 
deliberation outside of a posted meeting where a public body has difficulty communicating 
through the permissible channels.  
 Finally, in the emails we reviewed, the only Board member who responded by “reply all” 
to any of Ms. Mooney’s emails was Member Marie Ryan, who asked Ms. Mooney on March 15, 
2021, not to reply to all members on an email chain regarding invoices. Because we do not find a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law where a public body member attempts to warn other public 
body members against violating the Open Meeting Law, we do not find that Ms. Ryan’s email 
violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2018-6; OML 2020-83. Therefore, we find Ms. 
Mooney’s violation to be an individual one.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that Board member Eileen Mooney deliberated 
outside of a posted meeting via email on February 11, in violation of the Open Meeting Law. We 
do not find that any other of the emails that were the subject of this complaint constituted 
improper deliberation. We decline to find this violation to be intentional, though we note that we 
recently found that Ms. Mooney intentionally violated the Open Meeting Law in a similar matter. 
See OML 2020-136. Furthermore, in another recent determination, OML 2021-45, we ordered 
all Board members, except for Ms. Mooney, to attend Open Meeting Law training due to an 
intentional violation where the Board members, except for Ms. Mooney, discussed a topic in 
executive session which we had previously warned the Board was not proper for executive 
session, and which Ms. Mooney cautioned the Board the day of the meeting was an improper 
topic for executive session. Based on this history of Open Meeting Law violations, we caution 
the Board that any further findings of an intentional violation may result in the imposition of a 
civil penalty of up to $1000 per violation. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c)(4); 940 CMR 29.07(3)(d). 
 Finally, we note that over approximately the past three years, our office has received 
fifteen Open Meeting Law complaints and over eighty informal inquiries from both Ms. Mooney 
and Ms. Meagher, as well as multiple public records requests from Ms. Meagher seeking our 
office’s communications with Ms. Mooney, indicating ongoing distrust and communication 
problems among Board members and between Board members and Board staff. The personal 
animosity between Ms. Mooney and Ms. Meagher, as demonstrated by the tone of their 
correspondence, also appears to fuel this conflict. As our office must devote our limited 
resources to many other public bodies around Massachusetts, we urge the Board and its staff to 
work collaboratively to resolve their concerns internally whenever possible.  
 We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
cc: Madonna Meagher (via e-mail:  
 Eileen Mooney (via e-mail:  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
