===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
  
May 12, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 67 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Russell W. Williston 
Chair of the Lancaster Planning Board 
  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Mr. Williston: 
 
This office received a complaint from Jeanne Rich, a member of the Lancaster Planning 
Board (the “Board”), on November 4, 2020,1 alleging that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 29, 
and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated October 6. The complaint alleges that 
1) the minutes of the Board’s August 24 and September 14 meetings are insufficiently detailed; 
and 2) the Bord improperly amended the notice for its September 28 meeting. The complaint also 
contains additional allegations that, for the reasons stated below, we do not formally review.       
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Law by creating and approving 
insufficiently detailed minutes for its August 24 meeting. We find that the Board did not violate 
the Law in the other ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open 
Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review,2 additional 
materials provided by Ms. Rich, and the minutes, notices, and video recordings of the Board’s 
meetings held on August 24, September 14, September 28, and October 26.3  
 
 
 
 
1 All dates in this determination are in 2020, unless otherwise stated.  
2 We decline to review the additional allegations raised in the request for further review because they were not raised 
in an Open Meeting Law complaint filed with the Board. See OML 2020-3; OML Declination 4-22-15 (Natick 
Economic Development Committee).   
3 Video recordings of the Board’s meetings may be found at https://townhallstreams.com/towns/lancasterma.   

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. The Board convened a meeting on August 24 during which 
it discussed the election of new board officers. During this discussion, Board member Tom 
Christopher nominated Ms. Rich for the position of chair, explaining that because of Ms. Rich’s 
experience and history on the Board, she should continue in the role. The nomination of Ms. 
Rich did not receive a second. Board member Carol Jackson then nominated Russ Williston4 for 
the position of chair, and Board member Roy Mirabito seconded the nomination. Ms. Rich asked 
if there was any discussion. Hearing no discussion from other Board members, Ms. Rich 
explained that she could not vote for Mr. Williston because she found his “demeanor toward 
others, his disrespectful behavior, and his lack of professionalism . . . frightening,” and because 
“the Town ha[d] already lost a few good individuals in part due to Russ.” Ms. Rich stated that 
she feared “his running of [the Board] may cause others to walk away in frustration.” There was 
no other discussion. The Board then voted to elect Mr. Williston as chair, and he took over 
running the meeting.5 The meeting then continued with the nomination of a vice chair. After 
receiving a nomination and second for Mr. Mirabito for the position of vice chair, Mr. Williston 
stated that he “would rather not open it to discussion,” and asked if anyone objected to that 
approach.     
 
On September 14, the Board convened a meeting at which it discussed the approval of the 
minutes of the August 24 meeting, which had been prepared and distributed to the Board in 
advance. Ms. Rich submitted a revised version of the draft minutes for the Board’s consideration, 
which contained several minor edits. Additionally, Ms. Rich proposed that the minutes include 
her comments regarding Mr. Williston’s nomination for chair as well as the sentence “[t]he chair 
announced there would be no discussion” regarding the nominations for vice chair and clerk. Ms. 
Rich moved to accept the minutes of the August 24 meeting as amended by her edits. During the 
discussion of Ms. Rich’s motion, Ms. Jackson stated that the edits regarding an announcement 
that there would be no discussion were inaccurate. Ms. Jackson also stated that she did not 
believe Ms. Rich’s comments about Mr. Williston were appropriate to include in the minutes. 
Mr. Mirabito also expressed his opposition to including Ms. Rich’s comments about Mr. 
Williston in the minutes. Mr. Williston suggested that the Board vote against Ms. Rich’s motion 
to accept the minutes with all of her amendments, and then entertain a new motion to accept the 
minutes with Ms. Rich’s minor edits, but not her comments about Mr. Williston or the statement 
that he had declared there would be no discussion of the nominees.  
 
The Board then voted on Ms. Rich’s motion to accept the draft minutes with all of her 
edits. When Mr. Williston asked for Ms. Jackson’s vote, she voted in favor of the motion. Mr. 
Williston paused to clarify with Ms. Jackson if she had intended to vote in favor of the motion. 
There was a brief discussion where Ms. Jackson clarified that she intended to vote in favor of 
Mr. Williston’s suggested motion, a motion that had not yet formally been made, not in favor of 
Ms. Rich’s motion. The Complainant’s motion to accept the minutes with all of her proposed 
 
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
5 We remind the Board that during any meeting in which one or more members participate remotely, all votes must 
be taken by roll call. 940 CMR 29.10(7)(c); OML 2020-89. A roll call vote is “the act or an instance of calling off a 
list of names.” Webster's Third New International Dictionary of the English Language, 683 (unabridged ed. 1961); 
OML 2019-163. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
edits ultimately failed. Thereafter, Ms. Jackson moved to approve the minutes with Ms. Rich’s 
minor edits and “without the nasty comments.” Ms. Jackson’s motion passed.  
 
During its October 26 meeting, in response to this complaint, the Board voted to amend 
the minutes of the August 24 meeting to include the following language: “In discussion Jeanne 
Rich shared concerns about Russ Williston’s demeanor, behavior and professionalism.”  
 
On September 24, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on September 28. On 
September 25, the Board posted a revised notice for the September 28 meeting. The revised 
notice added a new topic: “Presentation regarding upcoming Special Town Meeting article that 
would amend the Lancaster bylaw establishing the Lancaster Planning Board.” 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. Allegations Not Formally Reviewed in This Determination. 
The complaint raises several allegations which, for the following reasons, we decline to 
review. First, the allegation that during the Board’s August 24 meeting Mr. Williston stated that 
he would prefer not to discuss the nominees, and the allegation that “[s]ince July” Mr. Williston 
has improperly deliberated via email and Facebook, were not timely filed with the Board. To be 
considered timely, a written Open Meeting Law complaint setting forth the circumstances which 
constitute the alleged violation must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the date of 
the alleged violation, or if the alleged violation could not reasonably have been known at the 
time it occurred, then within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29:05(4). The allegations regarding the August 24 meeting and the 
allegations regarding improper deliberation via email and Facebook were discoverable on July 
20, July 22, August 20, and August 24.6 Because the complaint was not filed with the Board until 
September 29—between 71 and 36 days after the alleged violations were discoverable—we 
decline to review these allegations.  
 
Next, we decline to review several allegations that, even if true, would not constitute 
violations of the Open Meeting Law. These allegations include that 1) during the Board’s August 
24 meeting Mr. Williston stated that he would prefer not to discuss the nominees; 2) during the 
September 28 meeting, a member of the Board was allowed to make a motion to “approve the 
minutes . . . without the nasty comments”7; 3) Mr. Williston has made “threatening comments 
and remarks” concerning Ms. Rich; and 4) Mr. Williston created a Facebook page identifying 
himself as a member of the Board without permission of the Town.  
 
 
6 The emails provided to our office by Ms. Rich in support of the allegation that Mr. Williston deliberated via email 
are dated July 20 and 22. Because Ms. Rich was a recipient of these emails, any alleged violation relating to the 
emails was discoverable the day the emails were received. Likewise, the Facebook posts were created on July 20 
and August 20. Ms. Rich has not asserted that these posts were not discoverable on the dates they were posted to 
Facebook; therefore, we find that any allegation related to the Facebook posts were discoverable on July 20 and 
August 20. 
7 In the request for further review, Ms. Rich clarified that this allegation was “an attempt to point out that some 
members are allowed to make motions as they want while others are not.” Regardless, the Open Meeting Law does 
not address who may make motions during a meeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Even if true, none of these allegations would constitute violations of the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to discuss 
any topic. See, e.g. OML 2021-41; OML 2020-38.8 Rather, the Law requires that when a quorum 
of a public body does discuss a matter within its jurisdiction, it do so during a properly noticed 
meeting and that it create and maintain accurate meeting minutes capturing that discussion. G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18, 20, 22. Similarly, the Open Meeting Law does not govern what motions may or 
may not be made during a meeting, nor does it govern whether an individual may create a 
Facebook page identifying themselves as a public body member. Finally, although we discourage 
uncivil and unprofessional behavior, the allegation that Mr. Williston has made threatening 
remarks does not allege a violation of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2019-166 (“An 
allegation of unprofessional conduct or incivility towards a member of the Commission or the 
public does not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law.”); OML Declination 3-31-20 
(Sterling Board of Selectmen). For these reasons, we decline to review the above allegations. 
 
II. The Minutes of the August 24 Meeting Were Insufficiently Detailed Where They Did 
not Summarize the Discussion of Mr. Williston’s Nomination, But the Minutes of the 
September 14 Meeting are Sufficiently Detailed.  
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. 
See OML 2013-64. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough 
detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the 
minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106; OML 2020-149 
(finding minutes that noted a discussion was held, or a topic was addressed, without specifying 
what was said on each topic did not comply with the requirements of the Law); OML 2021-10. 
While minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not 
required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented. See OML 
2011-44; OML 2021-33.  
 
The complaint alleges that the minutes of the August 24 meeting, as approved on 
September 14, were insufficiently detailed because they did not include Ms. Rich’s comments 
regarding why she would not vote for Mr. Williston as chair. Likewise, the complaint alleges that 
the minutes of the Board’s September 14 meeting are insufficiently detailed because they do not 
capture Ms. Jackson’s changed vote on the first motion to approve the minutes of the August 24 
meeting.  
 
With respect to the minutes of the August 24 meeting, we find that the Board violated the 
Law by approving insufficiently detailed minutes where the minutes failed to include any 
mention of the discussion of Mr. Williston’s nomination to the position of chair. See OML 2012-
88; OML 2015-61; see also OML 2012-19 (“[S]ometimes public business can involve the 
 
8 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
discussion of sensitive topics. Nevertheless, the Open Meeting Law is absolutely clear that 
public bodies must maintain accurate minutes of the entirety of their deliberations in order to 
achieve the purpose of transparency in the formulation of public policy.”). The discussion of Mr. 
Williston’s nomination was brief and comprised entirely of the Complainant’s comments; 
nonetheless, the discussion should have been summarized in the minutes, though did not need to 
be included verbatim. The amended minutes that the Board approved during its October 26 
meeting, which state “In discussion Jeanne Rich shared concerns about Russ Williston’s 
demeanor, behavior and professionalism,” are adequate. Because the Board has already taken 
appropriate remedial action, we do not order any further action. See OML 2012-88. 
 
We find that the minutes of the September 14 meeting are accurate and sufficiently 
detailed. Ms. Rich alleges that the minutes are insufficient because they do not capture Ms. 
Jackson’s changed vote regarding approval of the minutes with Ms. Rich’s amendments, nor Mr. 
Williston’s effort to clarify Ms. Jackson’s intended vote. Based on a review of the video 
recording of the September 14 meeting, it is clear that Ms. Jackson intended to, and ultimately 
did, vote against Ms. Rich’s motion to accept the minutes with all of Ms. Rich’s proposed 
amendments. The minutes are sufficiently detailed where they include an accurate record of Ms. 
Jackson’s vote. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Therefore, we find that the Board did not violate the 
Law with respect to the minutes of its September 14 meeting.   
 
III. The Notice for the Board’s September 28 Meeting Was Properly Amended to Include 
an Unanticipated Topic.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, a public body post notice 
of each meeting “at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays” and that every notice include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). A public body may amend a meeting notice within 48 hours of a meeting if a previously 
unanticipated topic comes to the Chair’s attention. See 940 CMR 29.03(1)(d); OML 2020-29; 
OML 2019-131.  
 
On September 24, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on September 28. On 
September 25, the Board revised the notice to include the additional topic “Presentation 
regarding upcoming Special Town Meeting article that would amend the Lancaster bylaw 
establishing the Lancaster Planning Board.” The Board explains that after the notice for the 
September 28 meeting was posted, Board member Mirabito requested that Mr. Williston include 
the additional topic for discussion at the September 28 meeting, and that Mr. Williston 
immediately requested that a revised notice be posted to include the new topic. 
 
Ms. Rich asserts that the Special Town Meeting article Mr. Mirabito requested to discuss 
had been presented at an earlier Town Meeting, and therefore Mr. Williston “could very 
reasonably have anticipated” this topic. Ms. Rich also asserts that “[t]here was no emergency or 
urgency for the agenda to be changed and this item added.” These assertions do not present any 
evidence that Mr. Williston anticipated, 48 hours prior to the September 28 meeting, that the 
article would be discussed at the September 28 meeting. Although a chair generally may be 
aware of a particular issue, the Open Meeting Law only requires a meeting notice to contain the 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
topics the chair reasonably anticipates discussing at the particular meeting for which the notice is 
posted. See OML 2020-86; OML 2020-53; OML 2018-26; OML 2017-138. Absent sufficient 
evidence that Mr. Williston anticipated discussing the article at the September 28 meeting 48 
hours prior to the meeting, we credit the Board’s account of the facts. See OML 2017-93; OML 
2016-141; See also LaPointe v. License Board of Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) (“There is 
every presumption in favor of the honesty and sufficiency of the motives actuating public 
officers in actions ostensibly taken for the general welfare.”). Therefore, we do not find that the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law. In fact, although the Board could have discussed the 
unanticipated topic without adding it to the meeting notice at all, the Board followed our 
recommended best practice of amending meeting notices to include topics that arise fewer than 
48 hours before a meeting, so that members of the public are given advance notice of agenda 
items. See OML 2020-29; OML 2015-111; OML 2015-76. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
approving insufficiently detailed minutes for its August 24 meeting where those minutes failed to 
include a summary of the discussion surrounding Mr. Williston’s nomination, although we find 
that the Board sufficiently remedied the violation after the complaint was filed. We find that the 
Board did not violate the Law in the other ways alleged. We order the Board’s immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and note that future similar violations may be 
considered evidence of an intent to violate the law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Jeanne Rich (via email:   
 Debra Dennis, Administrative Assistant (via email:  
 
 
 
  

===PAGE 7===
7 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 