===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL ONE ASHBURTON PLACE BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108  (617) 727-2200  (617) 727-4765 TTY  www.mass.gov/ago  
 March 25, 2020         OML 2020 – 42  By E-mail Only  Lauren Goldberg LGoldberg@k-plaw.com     RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  Dear Attorney Goldberg: This office received a complaint from Shawn Moore on September 25, 2019, alleging that the Rutland Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 29 and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated August 12.1 In his complaint, Mr. Moore alleges that the Board deliberated about Conservation Commission reappointments outside of an open meeting.2 We appreciate the patience of the parties, especially the complainant, while we reviewed this complaint. Following our review, we find no evidence that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the complaint, the Board’s response and the request for further review. We spoke by phone with Mr. Moore on January 16, 2020, and emailed with Mr. Moore on January 20 and 21, 2020. We corresponded by email with Town Counsel on January 29 and February 12, 2020. Finally, we spoke with Selectperson Ruscitti on February 19, 2020.  During our investigation, we requested copies of text messages from both Mr. Moore and the Board. Mr. Moore provided us with copies of text messages the Board had previously produced in response to a public records request. Two Board members produced text messages in response to our January 29, 2020, request. 
                                                             1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2019. 2 The complaint also alleges that a member of the Board called the complainant a “maroon” in an email to the Town Administrator. We note that, even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Accordingly, we decline to review it. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 
===PAGE 2===
2  
FACTS We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body, thus, any three members constitute a quorum.  On July 7, Selectperson Jeff Stillings and Board Chair Sheila Dibb exchanged a series of text messages about an upcoming July 29 meeting of the Board, where the Board would decide whether to reappoint Mr. Moore to the Conservation Commission. Both Selectperson Stillings and Chair Dibb discussed the option of participating remotely in the meeting, as neither would be able to attend the meeting in person. Selectperson Stillings planned to ask another Board member, Leah Whiteman, to facilitate his remote participation via internet communication. Chair Dibb planned to call into the meeting and inquired of Selectperson Stillings, “What’s so contentious?” Selectperson Stillings responded, “Con com vote?” and then “Shawn’s gotta go[.]”  At the July 29 meeting, the Board questioned Mr. Moore and other candidates about their interest in serving on the Conservation Commission. As the Board questioned Mr. Moore, Mr. Moore raised his concerns that the Board was biased against him and had spoken outside of a public meeting about his reappointment. Selectperson Whiteman confirmed that Selectperson Stillings had, in fact, contacted her about participating remotely in the July 29 meeting. However, Selectperson Whiteman denied that she and Selectperson Stillings discussed the Conservation Commission appointment. DISCUSSION The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.” Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A public body may not engage in a serial communication whereby a quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a particular subject matter within the public body’s jurisdiction. See OML 2018-46; OML 2013-27.3   The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board deliberated in a serial manner by text message and phone call about Conservation Commission appointments ahead of the July 29 meeting. The Board, in its response, states that the three Board members only discussed the procedural matter of remote participation. However, the text messages we reviewed demonstrate                                                              3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3  
that Selectpersons Stillings and Dibbs also discussed a non-procedural matter that was under active consideration by the Board, the reappointment of Mr. Moore to the Conservation Commission. In their July 7 exchange, Chair Dibb inquired of Selectperson Stillings, “What’s so contentious?” Selectperson Stillings responded, “Con com vote?” and then “Shawn’s gotta go[.]” These texts clearly relate to a matter before the Board. See OML 2019-120; OML 2015-3; Boelter v. Board of Selectmen of Wayland, 479 Mass. 233, 243 (2018). If this exchange had reached a quorum of the Board, we would find that it constituted deliberation in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  However, this text discussion only included two members of the Board. None of the other text messages we reviewed demonstrated that the reappointment conversation reached other members of the Board. We reviewed Selectperson Whiteman’s text messages with other Board members and the Town Manager for the month of July 2019. Consistent with her statement at the July 29 meeting, Selectperson Whiteman’s texts with other Board members from the month of July do not contain any mention of the Conservation Commission appointment matter, or any other matters that would constitute unlawful deliberation. In the absence of any evidence to the contrary, we credit Selectperson Whiteman’s statement that her phone call with Selectperson Stillings only related to the procedural matter of remote participation. See OML 2016-27; OML 2011-40. Based on the lack of evidence of deliberation outside of a meeting in this instance, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.4 CONCLUSION  For the reasons stated above, we find no evidence that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. Sincerely,  Sarah Chase Assistant Attorney General Division of Open Government                                                                4 We note that our investigation was hampered by the Board’s practice of discussing Board business on personal devices without retaining those communications. For example, when on January 29, 2020, we requested all text messages between Board members for the month of July 2019, we were told that two members could no longer access text messages that were stored on old devices. We also note that some members of the Board failed to produce text messages in response to a public records request, and in response to our request as part of our investigation of this complaint. In particular, Selectperson Stillings engaged in text message communications with other board members, as demonstrated by text message conversations that were produced by the other Board members, yet failed to produce any of his own text messages. However, the Open Meeting Law does not govern records retention, and we make no determination as to whether Board members complied with their obligations under separate records retention laws. 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
cc: Shawn Moore  
 Rutland Board of Selectmen c/o Town Administrator Michael Nicholson 
 (mnicholson@townofrutland.org) 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
