===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 26, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 164 
 
 
VIA EMAIL  
 
Mateo Pangallo 
Chair, Shutesbury Community Preservation Committee 
Shutesbury.pangallo@gmail.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Pangallo: 
 
This office received a complaint from Amanda Alix on July 26, 2023, alleging that the 
Shutesbury Community Preservation Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on May 26, 
and you responded to the complaint on behalf of the Committee on June 16.
1  The complaint 
alleges that the minutes of the Committee’s March 23 meeting fail to adequately summarize 
comments from members of the public and do not include a list of documents the Committee 
used during the meeting. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s 
response, and the request for further review of the complaint.  In addition, we reviewed the 
minutes of the Committee’s March 23 meeting and video recordings of the Committee’s March 
23, April 12, and May 3 meetings.
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The meeting minutes must be approved 
in a timely manner, which the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations define as 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to 2023. 
2 The meeting videos are available online at https://www.youtube.com/@townofshutesbury7668. 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
“within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the 
public body can show good cause for further delay.”  940 C.M.R. 29.11(2); OML 2018-
48.3  When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for 
substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement.  See OML 2013-64.  By substantial 
compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a 
member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear 
understanding of what occurred.  See OML 2012-106.  A transcript is not required, and the 
minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented.  See OML 2017-104; OML 
2016-40. 
 
    Dur
ing the Committee’s March 23 meeting, the Committee held what it characterized as 
a public hearing on an application for Community Preservation Act funding for the rebuilding of 
the track at Amherst Regional High School.  Although the Committee Chair made clear that 
Community Preservation Act funding could not be used for a proposed artificial turf field that 
was part of the track facility project but only for other components of the project, that the field 
surface was outside of the Committee’s jurisdiction, and that comments from the public should 
address only those portions of the project that could be supported by Community Preservation 
Act funding, many members of the public spoke in opposition to the use of artificial turf.  
Although the meeting minutes identify each speaker by name and briefly summarize each 
speaker’s comments, the complaint alleges that the summaries of the speakers’ comments are 
insufficient.  We acknowledge that in places the minutes describe the nature of the speakers’ 
comments without including great detail; for example, one speaker conveyed “environmental 
concerns about artificial turf” and another felt the project was inappropriate due to “inappropriate 
project because of negative impacts on health and recreation.”  Other comments are described in 
somewhat more detail, although in general the minutes do not document specific data and 
statistics that some speakers presented.  With regard to the complainant’s comments, the minutes 
reference a letter the complainant had submitted “with 20 fellow residents to urge denial of the 
project.”  The minutes summarize in greater detail comments made by Committee members in 
response. 
 
   After re
 viewing the minutes and a video of the meeting, we are satisfied that the minutes 
substantially comply with the Open Meeting Law’s accuracy requirement.  The Open Meeting 
Law does not require that meeting minutes be a transcript of the discussions held, nor that they 
include every remark or opinion presented.  In prior determinations, we have not required the 
level of detail and precision that the complainant seeks.  See, e.g., OML 2019-136 (finding that 
minutes substantially complied with the Law’s accuracy requirement when member of the public 
spoke during a public comment period and the minutes captured some of the complainant’s 
comments but, according to the complainant, failed to capture at least ten points the complainant 
included in her remarks); OML 2016-40.  Although the minutes do not include every remark 
made by the complainant or other speakers, they contain an adequate summary of the comments.  
See OML OML 2020-113; 2016-40.  In particular, we find that the Committee’s minutes 
adequately capture the substance of the discussions that occurred so that a member of the public 
who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have an understanding of what 
occurred, i.e., that many members of the public spoke overwhelmingly in opposition to the use of 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found on the Attorney General’s website at https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
artificial turf, citing to health, safety, and environmental concerns, and that Committee members 
res
ponded to many comments by explaining the limited scope of the Committee’s review.  See 
OML 2020-113; OML 2016-40.  We therefore find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  
 
Next, we find that the Committee appropriately approved minutes of its Marc
 h 23 
meeting that included a list of documents used during the meeting, as required by the Open 
Meeting Law.  During the Committee’s discussion at its May 2 meeting regarding approval of 
the minutes of the March 23 meeting, the Committee’s Chair explained the requirement to 
include a list of documents used during the meeting and the Committee voted to approve the 
draft minutes subject to the addition of a list of documents used during the meeting.  We have 
previously explained that approval of minutes subject to identified amendments constitutes 
sufficient approval of the minutes; a public body does not need to review and approve the final 
minutes again once the amendments have been made.  See OML 2020-30.  Here, where the 
Committee voted on May 2 to approve the minutes subject to the addition of a list of documents 
used, we find that the Committee complied with the Open Meeting Law. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions.   
Sincerely, 
        
       Carrie Benedon 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Amanda Alix (via email: ) 
Shutesbury Community Preservation Committee (via email: cpc@shutesbury.org)  
Shutesbury Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@shutesbury.org) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
