===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
       
July 14 , 2023 
 
OML 2023 –110 
 
 
Blair S. Bailey, Esq. 
Town Counsel 
Town of Rochester 
BBailey@townofrochester.com 
 
Peter C. Sumners, Esq. 
Murphy, Lamere & Murphy P.C. 
psumners@mlmlawfirm.com 
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaints  
 
Dear Attorneys Bailey and Sumners, 
 
This letter addresses two complaints filed by Rhonda Baptiste alleging violations of the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The first complaint was filed with the Old Rochester 
Regional School Committee and Massachusetts School Superintendency Union #55 Joint School 
Committee (the “Joint Committee”)
1 on or around October 15, 2022. 2  The second complaint 
was filed with the Rochester School Committee and the Joint School Committee on or around 
October 16, 2022.  Attorney Sumners responded to the first complaint on behalf of the Old 
Rochester Regional School Committee by letter dated November 1; Attorney Bailey responded 
to the second complaint on behalf of the Rochester School Committee by letter dated October 
31; and Attorney Sumners responded to both complaints on behalf of the Joint Committee by 
letter dated November 8.  The complaints allege that Joe Pires, who is a member of both the Old 
Rochester Regional School Committee and the Joint Committee, and Anne Fernandes, who is a 
member of both the Rochester School Committee and the Joint Committee, deliberated outside 
of a posted meeting via comments in a Facebook group.  
 
After review, we find that Joe Pires, Anne Fernandes, and the Old Rochester Regional 
School Committee, Rochester School Committee, and Joint Committee did not violate the Open 
 
1 The Joint Committee is comprised of the Old Rochester Regional School Committee and the Massachusetts 
Superintendency Union #55 Committee.   
2 All dates refer to the year 2022.   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Meeting Law as alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, 
the responses to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further 
review.  We also reviewed many pages of screenshots that the complainant submitted showing 
various posts and comments that were posted in the “Tri-Town Buzz” Facebook group. 
 
FACTS 
 
The Rochester School Committee is a five-member public body; therefore, three 
members constitute a quorum.  The Old Rochester Regional School Committee is a nine-member 
public body; therefore, five members constitute a quorum.  The Joint Committee is an 18-
member public body; therefore, ten members constitute a quorum.  “Tri-Town Buzz” is a public 
Facebook discussion group with over 6,000 members.  Requests to join the group must be 
approved by a group administrator, although posts and comments on posts in the group are 
publicly viewable even by users who are not members of the group.  At relevant times, a quorum 
of members of each of the three Committees were members of the Tri-Town Buzz Facebook 
group.   
 
On October 14, Joe Pires, who is a member of both the Old Rochester Regional School 
Committee and the Joint Committee, posted a link in the Tri-Town Buzz group to a news story 
from southcoasttoday.com reporting that the Old Rochester Regional School District had been 
asked to ban books on gender and race issues.  Along with the link, Mr. Pires stated his opinion 
regarding the approval process for books accepted into the school libraries.  Within 18 hours 
there were over 200 comments on Mr. Pires’ post, including comments and replies by Mr. Pires 
engaging with members of the public.  Anne Fernandes, who is a member of both the Rochester 
School Committee and the Joint Committee, commented on Mr. Pires’ post to clarify comments 
she had made at a prior meeting of the Joint Committee regarding review and acceptance of 
library books.  Ms. Fernandes also engaged with and responded to comments by members of the 
public.  The three Committees do not dispute, and therefore we assume without deciding, that the 
subject of library book policies is a matter within the jurisdictions of each of the Committees. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
beration and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Council of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires tha t meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may 
be discussed at a meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For the 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public 
body.  Id.  
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The complaint alleges that Joe Pires and Anne Fernandes deliberated outside of a meeting 
via Facebook when Mr. Pires posted, and each of them commented, in the Tri-Town Buzz 
Facebook group, which includes a quorum of members of each of the three Committees.  
However, the Open Meeting Law does not restrict an individual’s right to make comments to the 
general public.  See OML 2017-111.3  Moreover, posting in a Facebook group that includes a 
quorum of members of a public body is not in and of itself a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  
See OML 2022-11; OML 2020-139; OML 2018-145.  If a member of the Board were to 
communicate directly with a quorum of the Board over social media platforms such as Facebook, 
such communication may violate the Open Meeting Law.  We have reviewed the Facebook posts 
provided t
o us by the complainant and find no evidence that Mr. Pires’ and Ms. Fernandes’ posts 
and comments involved communication between or among a quorum of any of the three 
Committees; rather, the posts and comments constituted communications directed to members of 
the public.  Although Ms. Fernandes’ posts and follow-up responses to members of the public 
were posted as comments on Mr. Pires’ initial post, we note that no quorum of members of any 
of the Committees engaged in the comments, and her comments were directed to the broader 
public and did not appear to be made in response to Mr. Pires.  Because we find no evidence 
showing deliberation between or among a quorum of the Board, we find no violation of the Open 
Meeting Law.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that Joe Pires, Anne Fernandes, and the Old 
Rochester Regional School Committee, Rochester School Committee, and Joint Committee did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  We now consider the 
complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address 
any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Committees.  Please feel free to 
contact the Division at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Carrie Benedon 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Rhonda Baptiste (via email: ) 
 Old Rochester Regional School Committee (via email: michellesmith@oldrochester.org ) 
Rochester School Committee (via email: sharonhartley@oldrochester.org) 
Massachusetts School Superintendency Union #55 Joint School Committee (via email: 
mikenelson@oldrochester.org) 
   
 
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law declinations and determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.msss.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 