===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
June 17, 2025 
  
OML 2025 – 74 
 
VIA EMAIL  
  
Steve Karrmann 
Chair, Conservation Commission 
Town of Brookfield 
6 Central St. 
Brookfield, MA 01506 
 
concomm@brookfieldma.us 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Chair Karrmann:  
 
This office received two complaints from Christopher Kelleher, one on February 3, 2025 
(“the First Complaint”), and the other on February 5, 2025 (“the Second Complaint”), alleging 
that the Brookfield Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  Both complaints were filed with the Commission on January 6, 
2025, and concern a meeting the Commission held on December 18, 20241 (“the December 18 
Meeting”).2   The Commission responded to the First Complaint on May 15, 2025.3  The 
Commission responded to the Second Complaint on January 23, 2025.  In the First Complaint, 
Mr. Kelleher alleges that (1) Chair William Meeker4 failed to announce that the December 18 
Meeting was being recorded; and (2) the Commission discussed a matter that was not included in 
the notice 48 hours prior to the December 18 Meeting.  In the Second Complaint, Mr. Kelleher 
alleges that at the December 18 Meeting, the Commission approved inaccurate minutes of its 
September 19 meeting.5 
 
1 Unless otherwise stated, all dates are in 2024. 
2 When allegations relate to the same meeting or are of a similar nature, it is more efficient to raise all allegations in 
a single Open Meeting Law complaint. We encourage the consolidation of complaints where possible. If the 
complaint form does not provide sufficient space for all allegations, additional pages may be appended to the form. 
3 The Commission is reminded that within 14 business days of receiving an Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Commission must meet to review the complaint and respond in writing to the complainant, simultaneously 
providing our office with a copy of the complaint and response.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
4 At all times relevant hereto, William Meeker was the chair of the Commission and therefore is identified as such, 
even though he no longer serves as chair. 
5 The Commission reviewed three sets of minutes at the December 18 Meeting.  The second complaint  does not 
identify the allegedly insufficient minutes by date.  Based on the subject discussed, we understand the allegation to 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged in the First Complaint.  We find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged in the Second Complaint.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed 
the original complaints, the Commission’s responses to the complaints, and the complainant’s 
requests for further review.  We also reviewed draft and approved minutes of the September 19 
meeting and viewed a recording of the December 18 Meeting.6   
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  On December 9, the Commission posted notice of the 
December 18 Meeting.  On December 17, the Commission posted an amended notice, which 
added the topic “112 Fiskdale – Discussion of Preexisting Order of Conditions.”  The December 
18 Meeting took place as scheduled.  Vice Chair Sarah Campbell
7 made an audio recording of 
the meeting by placing a device, seemingly handed to her by the All Boards Clerk, on the table 
between her and Chair Meeker.  Chair Meeker looked in the direction of the recording device 
when Vice Chair Campbell placed it on the table.  Although minutes of the December 18 
Meeting state that Chair Meeker announced that the meeting was being recorded, he made no 
such announcement. 
 
 The first item discussed at the December 18 Meeting was the approval of three sets of 
minutes, including minutes of the Commission’s September 19 meeting.  Draft minutes of the 
September 19 meeting included the following summary of the Webber Road / Town Farm Road 
Culvert / Catch Basin discussion: “Ms. Campbell said the Commission would be tabling the item 
because the Highway Superintendent had been fired.”  During the December 18 Meeting, Vice 
Chair Campbell proposed an edit of that summary, substituting “no longer worked for the Town 
of Brookfield” for “fired.”  Initially, Chair Meeker resisted the amendment.  Vice Chair 
Campbell explained that the original language was “a little too rough” and that it wasn’t “our 
place to say.”  Chair Meeker said that he could “see what you’re saying” and the Commission 
approved the September 19 minutes with that amendment. 
 
Approximately 17 minutes into the meeting, the Commission discussed the topic “112 
Fiskdale – Discussion of Preexisting Order of Conditions.”  The discussion was brief 
(approximately two minutes) and largely consisted of Chair Meeker sharing his concerns about a 
notice of intent that was issued relative to the subject property in 2009 and related plans.  The 
Commission voted to table the matter until it could locate the old plans. 
 
  
 
concern minutes of the September 19 meeting.  A complaint should identify minutes by date.  Failure to do so may 
result in a declination to review the complaint for lack of specificity.   
6 We accessed the recording at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIXpNGxf1o8. 
7 At all times relevant hereto, Sarah Campbell was the vice-chair of the Commission and therefore is identified as 
such, even though she no longer serves as chair. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Commission violated the Open Meeting Law when Chair Meeker failed to 
announce that the December 18 Meeting was being recorded. 
 
The Open Meeting Law provides that “[a]fter notifying the chair of the public body, any 
person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a public body. . . 
.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f).  The Law further provides that “[a]t the beginning of the meeting, the 
chair shall inform other attendees of any recordings.”  Id.  The requirement that the chair inform 
attendees of any recording includes any recording made by members of the public body itself, 
including those made for public broadcasting or administrative purposes, such as assisting in the 
drafting of meeting minutes.  See OML 2023-154; OML 2019-129; OML 2015-147.8  The chair 
must inform members of the public only of those recordings of which they are aware.  See OML 
2015-151; OML 2014-8.  Here, the recording device was handed to Vice Chair Campbell, who 
was sitting next to Chair Meeker; Vice Chair Campbell then placed it between her and Chair 
Meeker.  The Commission does not dispute that Chair Meeker was aware of the recording; 
rather, it acknowledges the violation and promises that going forward it will be mindful of the 
requirement that recordings must be announced.  We find, therefore, a violation as to this 
allegation. 
 
II. The Commission violated the Open Meeting Law when it discussed a topic that 
was reasonably anticipated 48 hours before the meeting but was only included on 
the notice the day before the meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  A public body may 
discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not reasonably anticipated by the 
chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting.  See OML 2025-64; OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87.  
 
The Commission does not dispute that the topic “112 Fiskdale – Discussion of 
Preexisting Order of Conditions” was reasonably anticipated 48 hours prior to the December 18 
Meeting.  The Commission does not argue (nor can it) that its vote to “table” the matter for a 
later meeting avoided a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  The discussion was brief and 
largely consisted of Chair Meeker airing his concerns, with little input from other 
commissioners.  Nonetheless, it constituted deliberation requiring proper notice.  See OML 
2024-157 (“A one-way communication from one public body member to a quorum on business 
within a body’s jurisdiction is deliberation, even if no other member responds.”).  See also OML 
2020-136; OML 2018-2.  Because Chair Meeker reasonably anticipated the topic “112 Fiskdale 
– Discussion of Preexisting Order of Conditions,” the topic should have been included on the 
 
8 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
notice 48 hours prior to the meeting.  It was not; as a result the Commission violated the Open 
Meeting Law when it engaged in a discussion of the topic. 
 
III. Minutes of the September 19 meeting accurately summarize the discussion of the 
Webber Road / Town Farm Road Culvert / Catch Basin topic. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  When reviewing minutes for 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy 
requirement.  See OML 2025-58; OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64.  By substantial compliance, 
we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the 
public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of 
what occurred.  See OML 2025-54; OML 2019-163; OML 2012-106.  While minutes must 
include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes 
do not need to include every remark or opinion presented.  See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55.  
So long as minutes are factually inaccurate, we generally do not scrutinize the word choice or 
tone of minutes.  See OML 2024-257 (characterization of complainant’s remarks at meeting did 
not render minutes inaccurate); OML 2024-209 (use of minutes “to put a spin on what 
happened,” mock the complainant, and omit context to make the complainant “appear unstable,” 
even if true, would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law); OML 2023-143 (finding 
minutes sufficiently accurate despite isolated instances of editorializing). 
 
The minutes of the September 19 meeting, as approved at the December 18 Meeting, 
substantially comply with the Open Meeting Law’s accuracy requirement.  Arguably, Vice Chair 
Campbell’s revision to the draft minutes (recharacterizing the highway superintendent’s 
separation from the town) was motivated as much by a desire to soften the tone as it was to 
increase the accuracy of the minutes.  In the interest of transparency, public bodies should avoid 
whitewashing discussions when preparing minutes.  Nonetheless, the revision did not 
compromise the minutes’ accuracy or sufficiency.  The highway superintendent’s separation was 
mentioned as the reason for tabling a discussion of the subject catch basin and culvert.  The 
reason for his separation had no bearing on the discussion.  In that context, there was no 
violation. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law when the chair failed to announce that the December 18 Meeting was being recorded and 
when it discussed a topic not listed on the notice 48 hours prior to the meeting.  We find that the 
Commission did not violate the Law in the other ways alleged.  We order the Commission’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Commission that 
a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.   
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Christopher Kelleher (via email: ) 
 Brookfield Town Administrator (via email: townadministrator@brookfieldma.us) 
 Brookfield Town Clerk ( via email: mseery@brookfieldma.us) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
