===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
April  19, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 77 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Erin Gibbons, Chair 
Wayland School Committee 
Erin_Gibbons@waylandps.org  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Gibbons: 
This office received a complaint from Kimberly Reichelt on July 14, 2023,1 alleging that 
the Wayland School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on May 30, and you responded 
on behalf of the Committee by letter dated July 7, following an extension of time granted by our 
office.  The complaint alleges that on March 31, the Committee’s then-Chair, Chris Ryan, 
engaged in deliberation outside of a posted meeting when he forwarded an email from then-
Committee member Jessica Polizzoti to a quorum of the Committee.
2   
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to 
the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review of the complaint.  We also 
reviewed the minutes of the Committee’s March 29 meeting and email correspondence provided 
by the complainant with the complaint.  Finally, we reviewed a video of the Committee’s March 
29 meeting.
3 
The complaint arises from an email that then-Committee member Polizzoti sent to 
members of the Wayland Public Schools central office staff on March 30, on which she copied 
 
1 All dates refer to 2023. 
2 Chris Ryan did not run for re-election and Jessica Polizzoti resigned from the Committee; neither was a member of 
the Committee at the time the complaint was filed on May 30. 
3 Video of the Committee’s March 29 meeting is available at https://wayland.vod.castus.tv/vod/?video=89eabf08-
32b8-4954-abad-bbdb0f00e9d6.  The comments relevant to this complaint begin at 27:00. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
then-Chair Ryan.4  The email expressed support for the office staff in the wake of the departure 
of the school superintendent and, “as stated at the [School Committee] meeting on Wednesday 
night,” expressed concerns about the hiring of an acting superintendent.  Ms. Polizzoti stated in 
her email that she was including only Mr. Ryan on the email so as not to violate the Open 
Meeting Law; however, Mr. Ryan then forwarded Ms. Polizzoti’s email to the remaining 
Committee members. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be noticed and open to 
the publ
ic, unless an executive session is convened.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” 
is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within 
the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c 30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 
‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the 
distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided than no 
opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is a 
simple majority of the member of a public body, unless otherwise provided.  
 
Although Mr. Ryan forwarded Ms. Polizzoti’s email to a quorum of the Committee, and 
the e
mail contained Ms. Polizzoti’s opinions on the superintendent transition, we find that the 
email exchange did not constitute improper deliberation.  After reviewing the email and Ms. 
Polizzoti’s comments during the March 29 meeting, we find that the email largely reflected the 
discussions that occurred during the posted, public meeting the night before.  See OML 2022-
138 (email memorializing opinions a board member had shared during prior meetings did not 
constitute impermissible deliberation outside of a posted meeting); OML 2021-82 (select board 
chair’s weekly email recaps of select board meetings sent to all boards and committees did not 
constitute deliberation, where the emails merely memorialized discussions that took place during 
prior open meetings); OML 2019-78 (distribution of minutes ahead of a public meeting is 
permissible as long as the minutes simply memorialize the deliberation that took place at a 
preceding open meeting).  We acknowledge that the opinions expressed in Ms. Polizzoti’s email 
about the acting superintendent appointment process did not track her comments during the 
meeting verbatim, though they were quite similar, and commend Ms. Polizzoti for exercising 
caution by not sending her email to a quorum of the Committee.   Nonetheless, we find that the 
essence of her email had been conveyed during the posted meeting, and therefore Mr. Ryan’s 
distribution of the email to a quorum of the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
  
  
 
4 The complainant learned of the email on May 26 when she received a copy of the email in response to a public 
records request.   
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Kimberly Reichelt (via email: ) 
 Wayland School Committee (via email: school_committee@waylandps.org) 
 Wayland Town Clerk (via email: treid@wayland.ma.us) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
