===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 27, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 205 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Kevin F. Bresnahan, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
kbresnahan@mhtl.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Bresnahan: 
 
This office received a complaint from Kimberly Sklar Reichelt on March 13, 2023, 
alleging that the Wayland School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on November 16, 
2022, and the Committee’s chair at the time, Chris Ryan,
1 responded on behalf of the Committee 
by letter dated January 5, 2023. The complaint concerns the Committee’s consideration and 
handling of complaints against the Superintendent of Wayland Public Schools, Dr. Omar Easy. 
In particular, the complaint relates to two Committee meetings, one held in executive session on 
October 26, 2022, and the other held in open session on November 10, 2022.
2 With respect to the 
October 26 executive session, the complaint alleges that the Committee 1) discussed matters that 
were not appropriate for executive session and 2) violated Dr. Easy’s right under G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a)(1) to have counsel present at the executive session. With respect to the November 10 
open session meeting, the complaint alleges that the Committee 1) discussed a topic that the 
meeting notice expressly excluded; 2) improperly amended the meeting notice; 3) included an 
insufficiently specific topic on the meeting notice; and 4) failed to provide sufficient notice that 
the meeting location had changed. Finally, the complaint alleges that the Committee deliberated 
outside of a properly noticed meeting.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
including an insufficiently specific topic on the notice for its November 10 meeting where it did 
not identify Dr. Easy as the subject of the complaints that would be discussed. We find that the 
 
1 Mr. Ryan no longer serves on the Committee. 
2 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Committee did not otherwise violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response, the request for further 
review, the notice for the October 26 and November 10 meetings, an audio recording of the 
October 26 executive session, and a video recording of the November 10 meeting.3 We also 
reviewed information provided to our office by the Committee in response to requests made by 
our office as well as additional information provided to our office by the Complainant. 
Additionally, we conducted a telephone interview with the current Committee chair, Erin 
Gibbons, and the Committee’s legal counsel.4 Finally, we communicated by telephone and email 
with the Complainant. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On October 18 the Committee provided written notice 
to Dr. Easy that it would hold an executive session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”) 
to discuss a complaint the Committee received regarding Dr. Easy’s alleged behavior at an 
October 13 Administrative Council meeting. On October 26, Dr. Easy’s attorney informed the 
Committee’s attorney that he would be unable to attend the meeting that evening due to a family 
funeral. After some back and forth between the attorneys, the Committee held the October 26 
executive session as scheduled. Dr. Easy was present at the October 26 executive session, but his 
attorney was not. 
 
The Committee’s recording and minutes of the October 26 executive session have not 
been released to the public yet; therefore, we only summarize the discussions held. During the 
executive session, the Committee discussed complaints it had received regarding Dr. Easy’s 
behavior during an October 13 Administrative Council meeting as well as complaints regarding 
Dr. Easy’s completion of employee performance evaluations. The Committee discussed whether 
and how to investigate these complaints, and whether to put Dr. Easy on administrative leave 
while doing so. Ultimately, the Committee decided not to place Dr. Easy on leave at that time 
and voted to continue the discussion in executive session on November 10. 
 
On or about November 7, Dr. Easy’s attorney informed the Committee that Dr. Easy was 
exercising his right under Purpose 1 to have the November 10 discussion held in open session 
rather than in executive session. On November 8, at 11:42 a.m., the Committee posted notice for 
the November 10 meeting. The notice including one substantive topic: 
 
Executive Session 
To discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than 
professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal 
of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff 
member or individual - complaint relative to administrator, pursuant to M.G.L.  
c.30A, §21(1).  
 
 
3 A video recording of the Committee’s November 10 meeting may be found at https://s3.us-west-
2.amazonaws.com/wayland.castus-vod/vod/video/8eebf0ae-0f12-4cf8-8c90-4ed289356ca3/video.original.mp4.  
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person throughout. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The notice listed the location of the meeting as “Wayland Town Building School 
Committee Board Room.” Thereafter, on November 9 at 2:24 p.m., the Committee posted 
a revised notice striking out the words “executive session,” adding the words “open 
session,” and changing the meeting location to the “Wayland High School South 
Building Lecture Hall – 2nd floor.” Finally, on November 10 at 10:20 a.m. an additional 
revised notice was posted, this time adding the topic “Public Comment.”   
 
On November 10 the Committee held an open session meeting, during which it continued 
its discussion of the complaints regarding Dr. Easy. At the beginning of the meeting, the 
Committee received comments from the public for approximately 40 minutes. Thereafter, the 
Committee heard from Dr. Easy, his attorney, and Committee members regarding the 
complaints, the investigation of the complaints, and whether to place Dr. Easy on leave during 
the investigation. The Committee then held a second public comment period for an additional 30 
minutes. In total, between the two public comment periods, approximately thirty-five members 
of the public spoke, some speaking multiple times. Ultimately, the Committee voted to 
investigate the complaints and not to place Dr. Easy on leave.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
It is important to note at the beginning that the Division’s review pertains only to 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. We do not review, and we offer 
no opinion regarding, the Committee’s handling of the complaints against Dr. Easy in general 
nor whether the Committee violated any rights Dr. Easy may have outside of those enumerated 
in the Open Meeting Law.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all deliberations of a public body occur during a 
properly noticed meeting and that, unless a lawful executive session is convened, all 
deliberations of a public body occur in open session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(a), 21. The Open 
Meeting Law defines “deliberation,” in relevant part, as “an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. For purposes of the Open Meeting 
Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of the public body, unless otherwise 
provided. Id. A public body may not engage in a serial communication whereby a quorum 
communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a matter within the 
public body’s jurisdiction. See OML 2015-3; OML 2020-160;
5 McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. 
App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that private serial communications violate the spirit of the Open 
Meeting Law and may not be used to circumvent the intent of the law). 
 
A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One such purpose is “[t]o 
discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional 
competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or 
charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”). The individual to be discussed in executive session under Purpose 1 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
must be provided with 48 hours’ written notice and can cause the discussion to be held in open 
session rather than executive session. Id. The individual also has several rights, which include 
the right to be present at the executive session; have counsel or another representative present for 
the purpose of advising the individual; speak on their own behalf; and cause an independent 
record of the executive session to be created by audio-recording or transcription. Id.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, public bodies post notice 
48 hours in advance of every meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(b). Meeting notices must include, among other things, a list of the topics that the 
chair, and any individual authorized to assist in creating the meeting notice, anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting. See OML 2020-152. Public bodies must list topics with “sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body’s discussion. See OML 2018-7; OML 2015-35. A public body may amend a 
notice within 48 hours of the meeting to include a previously unanticipated topic. See 940 CMR 
29.03(1)(d); OML 2020-29. Finally, public bodies must make reasonable accommodations for 
larger-than-usual crowds. See OML 2012-66. When a public body becomes aware that a meeting 
may draw a larger than excepted crowd, the body should make reasonable efforts to 
accommodate all people who wish to attend the meeting. See OML 2015-92. 
 
I. The October 26 Executive Session Meeting 
 
a. The Committee did not Violate the Law When it Held the October 26 Executive 
Session as Scheduled.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee violated Dr. Easy’s right under Purpose 1 to 
have counsel present at the October 26 executive session when it refused to reschedule the 
meeting after learning that Dr. Easy’s attorney was unable to attend due to a family funeral. First, 
we note that Dr. Easy has not filed a complaint with our office alleging that his rights under 
Purpose 1 were violated and that the Committee disputes that Dr. Easy or his counsel ever 
clearly requested that the meeting be rescheduled. Next, the Open Meeting Law does not require 
a public body to accommodate the schedule of a Purpose 1 subject’s attorney when scheduling 
an executive session. See OML 2012-107. Therefore, we find no violation with respect to this 
allegation. Although a public body is not required to accommodate the schedule of a Purpose 1 
subject or their attorney when scheduling its meetings, our office strongly encourages public 
bodies to accommodate individuals who are the subject of a Purpose 1 executive session to 
ensure that they may attend and have the representative of their choice available to advise them. 
See OML 2021-144. 
 
b. The Committee did not Violate the Law When it Discussed Complaints About Dr. 
Easy in Executive Session on October 26 and in Open Session on November 10.  
 
The complaint alleges that discussions of complaints regarding Dr. Easy’s completion of 
employee performance evaluations were not proper for executive session because they 
constituted discussions of professional competence, which Purpose 1 expressly prohibits. The 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Open Meeting Law contemplates that, generally, discussions of professional competence will 
take place in open session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). Here, the Committee discussed in executive 
session complaints regarding, in part, Dr. Easy’s completion of employee performance 
evaluations. That the complaints happened to pertain to one of Dr. Easy’s job duties does not 
render the discussion of those complaints improper for executive session under Purpose 1. See 
OML 2011-22, n. 2 (“While a public body generally may not discuss in executive session the 
professional competence of an individual it is appropriate to do so when considering discipline or 
dismissal related to a complaint about job performance.”). We find that, taken as a whole, the 
Committee’s discussions on October 26 were appropriate for executive session where they 
pertained to complaints about Dr. Easy.  
 
Relatedly, the complaint alleges that the notices for the October 26 executive session and 
November 10 open session were insufficient where they specifically stated the Committee would 
not discuss professional competence, yet the Committee did so anyway. For the reasons 
explained above, we find that the discussion focused on the complaints and not professional 
competence independent of the complaints, and therefore the notices were sufficient in this 
regard. 
 
II. The November 10 Open Session Meeting 
 
a. The Committee Properly Posted Notice for the November 10 Meeting; However, 
the Notice was Insufficient Where it did not Identify Dr. Easy as the Subject of 
the Complaints to be Discussed.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee improperly amended the notice for the 
November 10 meeting on two occasions within 48 hours of the meeting: first, to strike the words 
“executive session” and include the words “open session,” and second, to include the topic 
“Public Comment.” With respect to the first amendment, we note that even when executive 
session is included on a meeting notice there is never a guarantee that a public body will in fact 
convene in executive session. The public body must meet in open session to vote to convene in 
executive session; this vote could fail, or the public body could otherwise choose not to convene 
in executive session. See OML 2013-856 (Board, realizing that it had posted notice for an 
improper executive session topic, permissibly chose to hold the meeting in open session). 
Interested members of the public may attend the open session of the public body so that they can 
learn of the topic to be discussed in executive session and to be present in case the public body 
does not convene in executive session and instead holds its discussion in open session. 
 
Although a public body should not notice topics for executive session that it fully intends 
to discuss in open session with the intent of discouraging public attendance at a meeting, there is 
no evidence that this is what occurred here; instead, the Committee explains that an employee 
reading the Purpose 1 language on the notice mistakenly assumed that the Committee’s intention 
was to convene in executive session and changed the notice accordingly. We find that the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it later amended the notice to clarify that 
the meeting would be conducted in open session, not executive session. 
 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
Likewise, we find no violation where the Committee amended its meeting notice to 
include the topic “public comment” after the Chair became aware during the Committee’s 
November 9 meeting that the public wanted an opportunity to comment during the November 10 
meeting. Public comment is not itself a topic for the public body’s discussion that needs to be 
listed on the meeting notice. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2022-62; OML 2022-45.  
Therefore, amending a meeting notice to specify that public comment will be accepted, or even 
accepting public comment without specifying on the meeting notice, does not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  
 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the notice topic related to discussion of the complaints 
against Dr. Easy was insufficient where “it did not identify whether the discussion would be 
about reputation, character, physical condition, mental health, discipline or dismissal, complaints 
or charges,” and where it did not identify Dr. Easy as the subject of the discussion. We find that 
where the notice topic specified “complaint relative to administrator,” the notice was sufficiently 
specific in this regard. However, we find that the notice was insufficient where it did not identify 
Dr. Easy as the subject of the discussion. When discussing an individual in executive session 
pursuant to Purpose 1, a public body may omit identifying information about that individual 
from the meeting notice where the body is concerned about protecting the privacy of that 
individual. See OML 2023-27. Here, where the Committee knew in advance that Dr. Easy 
wished to hold the discussion in open session, rather than executive session, there was no privacy 
concern justifying withholding Dr. Easy’s identity as the subject of the discussion. Therefore, we 
find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by including an insufficiently specific 
topic on the notice for the November 10 meeting. Cf. OML 2013-20 (that the Purpose 1 subject 
“ultimately requested that the discussion be held in open session did not create a retroactive 
obligation to include his name in the meeting notice since, at the time the notice was created, the 
Board Chair did not reasonably anticipate having an open session discussion.”).  
 
 W e must now determine whether the violation was, as the Complainant urges, 
intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public 
body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. 
An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of 
the Law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law. Id. We have not, in the previous five years, warned the Committee against the 
violation found here, nor do we find other evidence that would support a finding of an intentional 
violation. We understand the Complainant’s concerns and frustration with missteps the 
Committee made in switching from executive session, as it had originally intended, to open 
session, but we do not find evidence that the Committee acted intentionally to violate the Open 
Meeting Law.   
 
b. The Committee Provided Sufficient Notice of the Change in Meeting Location. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee failed to provide sufficient notice that the 
location of the meeting had changed from the School Committee Board Room at the Wayland 
Town Building to the South Building Lecture Hall at the Wayland High School. The Committee 
explains that over the course of the day on November 8 it became evident to the Chair that a 
larger-than-usual crowd would likely attend the November 10 meeting and that therefore the 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
meeting would need to be moved in order to accommodate the anticipated crowd. The 
Committee further explains that on November 9, the Chair informed staff that the meeting would 
need to be held in a larger room. Staff attempted to find a larger room in the Town Building, and 
when they could not, they secured use of the South Building Lecture Hall, where the Committee 
typically holds its open session meetings. Thereafter, an amended notice with the updated 
location and the change in language regarding executive session and open session was posted on 
November 9 at 2:24 p.m.  
 
A public body is permitted to change its meeting location, even less than 48 hours prior 
to a meeting, as long as it makes reasonable efforts to notify the public of the new location. See 
OML 2020-102; OML 2020-95; OML 2017-152. Indeed, when a public body learns in advance 
that a meeting is expected to draw a particularly large crowd, the body should make reasonable 
efforts to accommodate the larger crowd, including by moving the meeting location if 
necessary. See OML 2016-111; OML 2015-92. Although the Complainant asserts that 
unidentified individuals went to the original meeting location unaware that the location had 
changed, the Complainant does not assert that she herself or any other specific individual was 
actually misled or confused by the change in meeting location. Approximately 125-135 people 
attended the November 10 meeting, including approximately 35 individuals who spoke during 
public comment. We find that the Committee provided the public with adequate notice
6 of and 
access to the November 10 meeting and did not violate the Open Meeting Law by changing the 
meeting location the day before the meeting. See OML 2017-152; OML 2016-77.  
 
III. We Find that the Committee Did Not Deliberate Outside of a Properly Noticed 
Meeting. 
 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the Committee “gives the appearance of having 
deliberated outside a public meeting in multiple ways, but most conspicuously by their inclusion 
of the administrator evaluations into the scope of the investigation.” The complaint further states 
that during the November 10 meeting “[t]here was clear confusion among” Committee members 
as to whether the complaints regarding employee evaluations were part of the scope of the 
investigation. Thus, the complaint asserts that complaints regarding employee evaluations 
appeared “to have been inserted into the scope [of the investigation] sometime between the end 
of the meeting on October 26 and the start of the meeting on November 10[,] in a way that 
suggests outside discussion.” 
 
 After reviewing recordings of the October 26 executive session and the November 
10 open session, additional information provided by the Committee and the Complainant, 
and interviewing Chair Gibbons, we find no evidence that the Committee deliberated 
outside of a properly noticed meeting regarding the scope of the investigation into 
complaints against Dr. Easy. Notwithstanding the allegation that the complaints regarding 
employee evaluations were “inserted” into the investigation at some point after October 
26, it is clear that the Committee had discussed the complaints regarding employee 
evaluations during its October 26 executive session. Some members of the Committee as 
well as Dr. Easy apparently did not recall that portion of the discussion during the 
 
6 The Division strongly recommends that, when feasible, notice of the change in meeting location be posted at the 
original meeting location for members of the public who may not have seen the amended meeting notice.  
===PAGE 8===
8 
 
November 10 meeting, which led to some confusion and an appearance that Committee 
members may have deliberated between the October 26 and November 10 meetings. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by including an insufficiently specific topic on the notice for its November 10 meeting where it 
did not identify Dr. Easy as the subject of the complaints that would be discussed. We find that 
the Committee did not otherwise violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. We order the 
Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that 
similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Erin Gibbons, Chair, Wayland School Committee (via email: 
erin_gibbons@waylandps.org) 
Wayland School Committee (via email: school_committee@waylandps.org) 
Trudy Reid, Town Clerk (via email: treid@wayland.ma.us) 
Kimberly Sklar Reichelt (via email ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
