===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
AITORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE  ATTORNEY  GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.goy/ago 
April 9, 2012 
OML 2012 — 30 
Ms. Amy McGuire Kates 
Chair, Cotuit Fire District Policy Advisory Committee 
Cotuit Fire Department 
P.O. Box 1090 
Cotuit, MA 02635 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Kates: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. King Lowe ("Complainant"), dated 
October 24, 2011, alleging that the Fire District Policy Advisory Committee (the 
"Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the 
complaint alleges that the Committee failed to maintain meeting minutes for eight 
meetings that occurred between November 16, 2010 and May 10, 2011. Additionally, the 
complaint alleges that during the May 10, 2011 Committee meeting, "discussions took 
place on subjects which were not included in the meeting notices." The complaint was 
originally filed with the Committee on or about June 11, 2011, however the Committee 
failed to respond at that time. As a result, the Complainant filed a second complaint, 
dated August 11, 2011. The Committee responded to the August 11, 2011 complaint by 
letter dated October 13, 2011. 
We reviewed the June 11, 2011 and August 11, 2011 complaints, as well as the 
Committee's October 13, 2011 response. The Committee's response included the 
Chair's' own written notations for the eight meetings identified in the complaint. 
Following our review, we find that because the Committee was operating under 
the mistaken belief that it was not a public body, it failed to comply with the Open 
Meeting Law between November 16, 2011 and May 10, 2011. Upon learning that it is, 
in fact a public body, the Committee stated its commitment to following the requirements 
of the law in the future. 
For purposes of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person. 
1 
0 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. 
On June 11, 2011, the Complainant requested minutes of the following 
Committee meetings: November 16, 2010; January 11, 2011; February 8, 2011; March 8, 
2011; March 14, 2011; April 5, 2011; April 12, 2011; and May 10, 2011. On July 6, 
2011, the Complainant received the Chair's handwritten notes in lieu of the formal 
minutes. The Chair's handwritten notes provided general information about the meeting, 
but failed to include the time and place of the meeting, a summary of the discussions on 
each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, and the actions 
taken at each meeting. As a result, on August 11, 2011, the complainant filed a second 
complaint with the Committee. 
The Committee did not respond to the August 11, 2011 complaint until October 
13, 2011 — 43 business days after it was originally filed. Although our office received 
an extension request from the Chair on September 30, 2011, the request did not clearly 
state a reason for the delay. 
In its October 13, 2011 response letter, the Committee acknowledged that it 
violated the provisions of the Open Meeting Law. Specifically, it acknowledged that it 
failed to maintain accurate records of all meetings. The Chair stated in the letter that it 
was her understanding that the Committee was not a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law. However, after the Chair attended the May 18, 2011 Elected Officials 
Training at Barnstable Town Hall and spoke with a representative from our office, she 
realized the Committee is a public body subject to the law. The Committee subsequently 
acknowledged the violations, and has stated that it is now taking minutes and following 
the provisions of the Open Meeting Law. 
DISCUSSION 
The Committee has acknowledged that it is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, and admitted a lack of full compliance with the law. We therefore provide 
the following analysis as future guidance. 
I. The Committee is a Public Body Subject to the Open Meetin&Law 
The Open Meeting Law defines "public body" in relevant part as "a multiple-
member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or 
legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, 
elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18. To determine whether a multiple-member entity is a public body subject to 
the Open Meeting Law, there are three factors we consider: 
2 
===PAGE 3===
1. The entity must be "within" government and not excluded from the definition 
of "public body"; 
2. The entity must be a "body" empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a "public purpose."2  
The Committee is clearly within government, as it is a subcommittee of the Cotuit 
Fire District. The Committee is composed of "one member of the Prudential Committee, 
one member of the Board of Fire Commissioners, one member of the Board of Water 
Commissioners, and two members at large who shall be appointed by the Moderator on 
an annual basis." FINANCIAL ADVISORY ASSOCIATES, COTUIT FIRE DISTRICT 21ST 
CENTURY GOVERNANCE STUDY 51 (1999), available at http://www.faa-
inc.com/images/Binder2.pdf. Furthermore, a fire district exists within definite 
"geographical borders and is empowered by the State to carry out typically governmental 
or political functions." See Cohen v. Board of Water Com'rs, Fire Dist. No. I, South 
Hadley, 411 Mass. 744, 747-48 (1992); FINANCIAL ADVISORY ASSOCIATES, COTUIT FIRE 
DISTRICT 21ST CENTURY GOVERNANCE STUDY 61 (1999), available at http://www.faa-
inc.com/images/Binder2.pdf.  
The Committee is also empowered to act collectively. The Committee is a five-
member committee established to make "informal recommendations to the elected boards 
and committees of the Cotuit Fire District." FINANCIAL ADVISORY ASSOCIATES, COTUIT 
FIRE DISTRICT 21ST CENTURY GOVERNANCE STUDY 51 (1999), available at 
http://www.faa-inc.com/images/Binder2.pdf. The Committee's informal 
recommendations "may concern, but are not limited to, efficiencies in the operation of 
the various departments, and coordination of financial planning between the various 
departments, including the timing of capital expenditures." Id. 
Finally, the Committee serves a public purpose, as its members make informal 
recommendations to the Cotuit Fire District's various departments regarding efficiencies 
in operation and financial planning. Id. Members of the Committee also "research and 
evaluate any potential action which might improve the quality of service provided by the 
Cotuit Fire District to its residents." Id. As a multiple-member committee established to 
serve a public purpose, the Fire District Policy Advisory Committee is therefore a public 
body subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
II. The Committee Failed to Maintain Sufficient Minutes of its Meetings.  
Since it is a public body, the Committee is required to "create and maintain 
accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time 
and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, 
a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the 
actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
Furthermore, "[m]inutes of all open sessions shall be created and approved in a timely 
2  See OML 2010-1 for a more detailed explanation of this three-part analysis. Open Meeting Law 
determinations may be found at www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
3 
===PAGE 4===
manner" and "shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 days." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 22(c). 
In lieu of the formal minutes requested by the Complainant, the Chair provided 
her personal notes from the corresponding meetings. The Chair's written notations set 
forth the date, the members present or absent, and a general outline of the discussions on 
each subject. However, the time and place of the meeting, a summary of the discussions 
on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the actions 
taken at each meeting, and a record of all votes were consistently omitted. Meeting 
minutes, whether for open or executive sessions, must give the reader an adequate 
understanding of what actually happened at the meeting. See OML 2011-34. They do 
not have to be transcripts, but they must reflect the discussions that occurred and the 
action taken by the body. Id.; G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Here, the Committee failed to create 
and approve complete minutes for the eight meetings at issue. 
We also remind the Committee that meeting notices must state the "date, time and 
place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The Complainant alleges that during the 
May 10, 2011 Committee meeting, discussions took place regarding the "International 
Association of Firefighters (IAFF) Local 3642, the potential for decertification of the 
union, and [the] propos[al] [of] a bylaw amendment limiting increases for Fire 
Department personnel to 2.5% annually." The Complainant further alleges that these 
subjects were "not included in the meeting notices." The Committee has acknowledged 
its general failure to comply with the Open Meeting Law, and has indicated that it intends 
to follow the requirements of the law in the future. 
III. The Committee Took 43 Days to Respond to the Complaint. 
The Committee failed to respond to the complaint until October 13, 2011 — 43 
business days after it was originally filed. Because it is a public body, the Committee 
was required to send a copy of the complaint to the Attorney General and notify the 
Attorney General of any remedial action taken within 14 business days of receipt. G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(b). The Attorney General may authorize an extension of time for the public 
body to respond upon written request and a showing of good cause to grant the extension. 
Id. We remind the Committee of the need to be attentive and responsive to Open 
Meeting Law complaints filed by members of the public. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that, while acting under the good faith belief that it was not a public 
body, the Committee failed to maintain sufficient meeting minutes for the eight meetings 
that occurred between November 16, 2011 and May 10, 2011, in violation of G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(a). The Committee has subsequently acknowledged that it failed to comply with 
Open Meeting Law and indicated that minutes have been kept at all Committee meetings 
since June 2011. We remind the Committee of the requirement in G.L. c. 30A, § 22 that 
public bodies create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, and caution that 
4 
===PAGE 5===
future similar violations of the Open Meeting Law may be considered intentional 
violations. Furthermore, we order the ComiMttee, to the best of its ability, to create and 
approve complete and accurate minutes of the eight meetings requested by the 
complainant. This should occur within sixty (60) days of receipt of this letter. 
We now consider this complaint resolved. We appreciate the cooperation and 
patience of the parties during our investigation. This determination does not address any 
other complaints that may be pending with our office, the Fire District Policy Advisory 
Committee, or the Cotuit Fire District Prudential Committee. Please feel free to contact 
me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Amy L. Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 King Lowe 
5 