===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
February 20, 2018 
OML 2018 - 21 
Michele E. Randazzo, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Randazzo: 
This office received a complaint from Kim Sherwood, dated January 16, 2018, alleging 
that the Topsfield Collins Center Working Group (the "Working Group") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Working 
Group on November 27, 2017, and the Working Group responded by letter dated December 15, 
2017. In her complaint, Ms. Sherwood alleges that the Working Group is a public body that has 
failed to comply with the Open Meeting Law. 
Following our review, we find that the Working Group is a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law, and, accordingly, that the Working Group violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to comply with its requirements. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint, the Working Group's response, and the request for further review filed with 
our office. We also reviewed the minutes of a joint meeting of the Topsfield Board of Selectmen 
and the Topsfield Finance Committee held on September 18, 2017. Finally, we spoke with 
Topsfield town counsel by telephone on February 12, 2018.' 
We find the facts as follows. In Topsfield, the town administrator serves as the town's 
chief financial officer. Her duties include making recommendations on all town department 
budgets and overseeing town appropriations and expenditures. In August 2017, the Topsfield 
town administrator began working with the Collins Center for Public Management at the 
University of Massachusetts to prepare draft comprehensive financial management policies for 
the town. Seeking to involve relevant stakeholders within the town, the town administrator 
arranged for the Collins Center to hold a presentation for a joint meeting of the Topsfield Board 
1 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
of Selectmen and the Topsfield Finance Committee. This joint meeting was held on September 
18, 2017. After the presentation from the Collins Center, the Board of Selectmen chair made a 
motion "for the Town Administrator to appoint a 5-person Working Group to review the Collins 
Center Document and formulate revisions for consideration by the Selectmen and Finance 
Committee." The motion passed. Subsequently, the town administrator appointed five people to 
be part of the Working Group.2 According to town counsel, a quorum of the Working Group 
met twice after the September 18, 2017 joint meeting.3 The Working Group did not post notice 
of these meetings, and, while the town administrator took notes during the meetings, no formal 
minutes were kept. During these meetings, the Working Group made recommendations to the 
town administrator, including edits to the draft financial management policies. 
DISCUSSION 
A "public body" is defined in relevant part as any "multiple-member board, commission, 
committee or subcommittee . .. however created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, 
established to serve a public purpose." Id. at § 18. To determine whether a multi-member entity 
is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, there are three factors we consider which 
apply to all public bodies: 
1. The entity must be "within" government and not excluded from the definition of 
"public body"; 
2. The entity must be a "body" empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a "public purpose." 
See OML 2012-20; OML 2011-42; OML 2010-1.4 
Here, the Working Group is within government because it was created by the Board of 
Selectmen, with its members appointed by the town administrator. The Working Group 
contends that it is not a body empowered to act collectively, and thus is not a public body subject 
to the Open Meeting Law. We disagree. The Working Group made recommendations to the 
town administrator on matters of town policy. We have stated in the prior determinations that 
similar activity constituted collective action. See OML 2015-46. It also serves a public purpose: 
refining financial management policies for the town. Accordingly, the Working Group satisfies 
all three factors in favor of finding that it is a public body. 
The Working Group also contends that it is not a public body because it was appointed by 
the town manager "solely for the purpose of advising" her. We note the existence of a judicially 
recognized exception to the definition of "public body" under the Open Meeting Law. The 
Supreme Judicial Court held in Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover. 409 Mass. 232, 235 
(1991), that where an individual public official creates a committee to advise that person on a 
decision that the official has the sole authority to make, that committee is not subject to the Open 
2 The Working Group consists of one member of the Board of Selectmen, two members of the Finance Committee, 
the town's accountant, and the town's treasurer/collector. 
3 A subquorum of the Working Group, two members, also appears to have met on one occasion, Because this 
gathering did not consist of a quorum of the Working Group, it did not trigger the requirements of the Open Meeting 
Law. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Meeting Law. Had the town administrator created the Working Group of her own volition, then 
the body likely would have fit within the Connelly exception because it would have been created 
by an individual public official to advise her in a decision that she retained the sole authority to 
make—that is, to make recommendations on town fiscal policy. See OML 2015-93; OML 2014-
56. The distinction here, however, is that the Board of Selectmen created the Working Group 
and instructed by the town administrator to appoint its members. Therefore, because a public 
body created the Working Group, rather than an individual public official, the Working Group 
does not fall within the Connelly exception. See OML 2016-102. For the foregoing reasons, we 
conclude that the Working Group is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. We credit 
the Working Group's statement that its members did not believe themselves subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, nor did the town administrator. As such, we find that these errors were 
unintentional. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Working Group violated the Open Meeting 
Law. We order the Working Group's immediate and future compliance with the law, and we 
caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
Further, we order the Working Group, within thirty (30) days from receipt of this letter, to create 
and approve minutes for all Working Group meetings. Upon completion of these minutes, the 
Working Group must notify our office of compliance in writing, pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07(4). 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Working Group. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Kim Sherwood 
Topsfield Collins Center Working Group 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 