===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
September 9, 2019
OML 2019-111
Janelle M. Austin, Esq.
KP Law, P.C.
101 Arch Street, 12th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Austin:
This office received a complaint from Maureen Sullivan on January 22, 2019, alleging 
that the Middlefield Selectboard (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on October 30, and you responded, on 
behalf of the Board, by letter dated November 26, following an extension of time granted by our 
office. The complaint alleges that the notice for the Board’s October 24 meeting failed to 
indicate that the Board anticipated voting on a particular topic, high speed internet.
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notices and 
open session minutes of Board meetings held on July 30, October 15, October 24 and November 
7, as well as the minutes of the Special Town Meeting held on December 20.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. In early 2018, the Board created the Broadband Committee 
(“Committee”) to review proposals for high speed internet for the Town of Middlefield. The 
complainant is a member of the Committee, which met approximately 13 times between March 
16 and September 26.
Between January 8 and September 25, the Board posted notices for and held 23 meetings. 
Eleven of those notices contained a topic related to high speed internet discussions.
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.

===PAGE 2===
During a July 30 meeting, the Board received a presentation from the Committee 
describing the proposals it reviewed from six companies seeking to provide the Town with high 
speed internet. The Committee discussed each proposal and recommended two companies, 
Westfield Gas & Electric and Comcast.
The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on October 24 at 6:00 P.M. The notice 
listed eight topics, including “Continued discussion on high speed internet options.”
The October 24 meeting was held as planned. The Committee was present at this 
meeting and discussed with the Board the two proposals that the Committee had previously 
recommended. Chair David DiNicola suggested that Comcast was the best option for the Town, 
and then made a motion to enter into a contract with Comcast after putting “a lot of thought into 
this before making the motion.” One Board member argued that any decision for high speed 
internet should be decided by the residents. By a two to one vote, the Board voted to enter into a 
contract with Comcast.
The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on November 7 at 6:00 P.M. The notice 
listed one topic: “Further evaluation and discussion regarding broadband proposals/options. 
Possible selection and vote.”
The November 7 meeting was held as planned. During the meeting, the Board gave an 
overview of the Committee, the history of the initial proposals submitted to the Town for high 
speed internet service, and the Committee’s recommendation that the Town contract with either 
Westfield Gas & Electric or Comcast. The Board then discussed the costs to the Town and grant 
funding that was available. The Board adjourned without making any motions or taking any 
votes.
During a Special Town Meeting on December 20, the Town reviewed two articles.
Article One was for the appropriation of money for the Town itself to design, construct and 
install a high speed broadband network. Article Two was for the Town to accept a proposal by 
Comcast to build a broadband network and to enter into a Cable Television License Agreement 
with Comcast. Article One failed but Article Two passed by a majority vote.
DISCUSSION
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Notices must include 
the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” IcL The list of topics shall have sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member 
of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s 
discussion. See OML 2015-35.2
2 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law because it voted to 
enter into a contract with Comcast during an October 24 meeting but the notice indicated that the 
Board planned to merely continue discussing high speed internet. The Open Meeting Law does 
not require a public body to anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion, 
only that it identify the discussion topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public 
of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); 
OML 2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38. We have previously said that it is reasonably 
foreseeable that a public body may take action and hold a vote following discussion of a topic 
listed on a meeting notice, even where the notice topic does not specifically indicate the 
possibility of a vote. See OML 2015-66; OML 2012-75. However, we have also explained that 
there may be a context in which a public body has repeatedly discussed a posted topic over the 
course of several meetings without ever taking action on the topic. In such circumstances, the 
public may not reasonably foresee a vote by the public body on the posted topic at any given 
meeting without additional detail. In that context, it may be necessary for a public body to 
specifically indicate on its notice that it plans to take action and vote on a particular topic. See 
OML 2017-186.
Here, the Board had been discussing high speed internet for the better part of 2018. For 
11 of 23 meetings, the Board posted notices that included a topic related to high speed internet 
discussions. Prior to the October 24 meeting, the Board had not made any decisions or taken any 
votes regarding the selection of a high speed internet provider. Then, during the October 24 
meeting, Chair DiNicola moved to enter into a contract with Comcast and the Board agreed by a 
majority vote. If Chair DiNicola anticipated voting for one of the two internet providers during 
the October 24 meeting, then the Board should have indicated on its notice that it planned to vote 
on this matter since the Board had discussed this topic over numerous meetings without ever 
taking action. See OML 2017-195; OML 2017-186. However, even if the chair did not 
anticipate voting on the matter, we find that the topic as listed on the October 24 meeting notice - 
“continued discussion on high speed internet options” - was insufficiently detailed, in light of the 
many prior discussions regarding high speed internet and the evolving nature of the discussions. 
At a minimum, the meeting notice should have stated that the Board’s discussion would concern 
two specific proposals, and even better still would have identified the two internet provider 
options, Westfield Gas & Electric and Comcast, in order to notify the public that the Board’s 
consideration of high speed internet options was becoming more focused and that the Board was 
getting closer to reaching a decision. As such, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by posting an insufficiently detailed notice.
Although we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an 
insufficiently detailed notice, we commend the Board for acknowledging citizens’ concerns after 
its October 24 vote and further reviewing the high speed internet proposals during its November 
7 meeting. Moreover, a Special Town Meeting was held on December 20 where the residents of 
Middlefield voted for Comcast. As such, we order no further remedial action.
The complaint also alleges that the chair of the Board sent “emails pertaining to 
[broadband internet] from his private email address so that the public cannot request them as
3

===PAGE 4===
public documents.”3 In her request for further review, the complainant clarified that the Board 
Chair “uses his personal email account for Board business.” We generally decline to review an 
allegation that was not included within the original complaint to the Board because the Board has 
not had an opportunity to respond to it. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3). We find 
that this allegation was not clearly raised in the original complaint and thus we do not review its 
merits. However, we note that certain emails between Board Chair David DiNicola and Board 
member Judith Hoag in October 2018 appear to contain the opinion of one Board member on 
matters that were under active consideration by the Board. See OML 2015-3; OML 2014-108; 
Boelter v. Board of Selectmen of Wayland, 479 Mass. 233, 243 (2018). The expression of an 
opinion of one public body member on matters within the body’s jurisdiction to a quorum of a 
public body is a deliberation, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 2016- 
104; OML 2015-33. The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. For the purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id. Because 
the emails reached a quorum of the Board and contained opinions on matters pending before the 
Board, such deliberations should not have occured outside of a properly posted meeting. We 
remind the Board of its obligations under the law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and caution that similar 
future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Maureen Sullivan
Middlefield Board of Selectmen
3 The Division of Open Government’s statutory authority concerns compliance only with the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law. As 
such, we decline to review this portion of the complaint. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority 
Board of Commissioners).
4

===PAGE 5===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
5
