===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 28, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 50 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Brian J. O’Toole, Esq. 
Ryan & Boudreau, P.C. 
 
brian@RyanandBoudreau.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney O’Toole: 
 
This office received a complaint from Attorney John Clifford on January 12, 2026, 
alleging that the Granby Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on December 10, 2025, and 
you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated January 9, 2026.
1  The complaint alleges 
that (1) notice of the Board’s meeting on December 1, 2025, was insufficiently specific; (2) the 
Board voted to terminate Town Administrator Tammy Martin (“TA Martin”) in open session, 
contrary to the chair’s announcement prior to entering executive session that the Board would 
reconvene in open session only to adjourn the meeting; and (3) a quorum of the Board 
deliberated outside a public meeting.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
posted insufficiently specific notice of the meeting it held on December 1, 2025, and when it 
held a substantive vote in open session notwithstanding the chair’s announcement that the Board 
would reconvene in open session only to adjourn.  We do not find that the Board deliberated 
outside of a properly posted meeting.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open 
Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s responses, the request for further review, and the notices 
and minutes (open session and executive session) of the December 1 meeting.
2  We reviewed 
emails between Assistant Town Administrator / HR Director Holly Young (“ATA Young”), 
Attorney John Collins, and members of the Board and emails from Board Chair Mark Bail to 
Board Member Dave Labonte and to TA Martin.  We also communicated with you and with the 
 
1 Attorney John Collins submitted an initial response on December 29, 2025. 
2 The Board posted separate notices for the executive session and the open session held on December 1, setting 
different times for each.  For the sake of clarity, we refer to the sessions as constituting a single meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
complainant via email.  Finally, we reviewed media accounts concerning the termination of TA 
Martin.3 
 
FACTS 
  
We find the facts as follows.  As explained in greater detail below, the Board voted to 
terminate TA Martin both in open session and in executive session on December 1.4  During the 
week preceding the votes, Board members and staff communicated about the upcoming meeting.  
The record of those communications is incomplete; the emails we have reviewed are detailed 
below.   
 
On November 24, Chair Bail emailed ATA Young, copying TA Martin, stating “The 
phrase to include is ‘negotiations with a contracted employee.’  I don’t know how to phrase the 
executive session part, but I know you do.”  The wording of this email suggests that this was a 
continuation of prior communications between Chair Bail and ATA Young.  After a further 
exchange about the wording of the notice, Chair Bail emailed ATA Young on the afternoon of 
November 25, stating that “[i]t looks like we’re not having an executive session!”  He then sent 
an email that night stating that “[i]t looks like the executive session needs to be put on the agenda 
after all.” 
 
On the morning of November 26, Member Labonte emailed ATA Young, with a copy to 
TA Martin, asking that an executive session be added to the December 1 meeting.  He added: “If 
Mark has already reached out, this is just confirmation.”  Member Labonte’s email included a 
“NOTICE TO EMPLOYEE OF POSSIBLE EXECUTIVE SESSION:”  
 
Please be advised that the Select Board’s agenda for Monday, December 1, 2025, 
includes a topic that involves you, specifically complaints.  The Board may conduct such 
discussions in Executive Session under Section 2 of the Open Meeting Law which 
provides as follows: 
 
(a) A public body may meet in executive session only for the following purposes: 
 
(1) To discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, 
rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the 
discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public 
officer, employee, staff member or individual. . . . 
 
As explained in the Discussion section below, a public body may meet in executive 
session for one or more purposes set out in the Open Meeting Law.  Apparently understanding 
Member Labonte’s reference to “Section 2” to refer to “Purpose 2” and recognizing the quoted 
language to refer to Purpose 1, ATA Young forwarded Member Labonte’s email to the Town’s 
labor counsel, Attorney Collins, seeking clarification whether the executive session should be 
 
3 “Granby names police chief as acting town administrator,” Daily Hampshire Gazette, December 5, 2025; “Ousted 
Granby town administrator files complaint over firing,” Daily Hampshire Gazette, January 2, 2026. 
4 Hereinafter, all dates are in 2025, unless stated otherwise. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
noticed and conducted under Purpose 1 or Purpose 2.  That same morning, November 26, 
Attorney Collins replied that the executive session should be posted under Purpose 2. 
 
Still on November 26, the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on December 1 at 
5:00 p.m.  The sole substantive topic was: “Vote to go into Executive Session per M.G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21 (a)(2): To conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel 
or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  
The Board also posted notice of a meeting to be held in open session on December 1 at 5:30 
p.m., listing multiple topics for discussion.   
 
On Saturday, November 29, Chair Bail sent an email to TA Martin.  Chair Bail stated that 
he spent 12 hours talking to people about her earlier in the week and that “until 4:30 PM on 
Tuesday, I was still trying to figure out a way to work with you.”  Based on information he 
learned on Tuesday, November 25, “I knew I couldn’t support you anymore.”  Chair Bail 
reminded TA Martin that the Board planned to meet in executive session on Monday, December 
1.  At that meeting, he planned to make a motion not to extend her contract.  He continued: “You 
are, of course, welcome to come and plead your case.  I haven’t spoken with the other Board 
members, so I don’t know how they plan to vote.”  He also told TA Martin: “The executive 
session is for negotiations with you.”
5   
 
The December 1 meeting was held as scheduled.  At 5:00 p.m., the Board convened in 
open session and voted to enter executive session, stating the purpose of the executive session as 
set forth in the notice.  TA Martin and her counsel, Attorney Clifford, attended the executive 
session.  Both Attorney Clifford and the Town’s labor counsel attended via Zoom.  The Board 
did not finish its executive session discussion by 5:30 p.m., the time that the open session was 
scheduled to commence.
6  Therefore, the Board exited executive session to commence the open 
session, and discussed matters listed on the open session notice.  At the conclusion of the open 
session, the Board voted to return to executive session, again pursuant to M.G.L. c. 30A, § 21 
(a)(2), to conduct contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.  Neither TA Martin nor 
Attorney Clifford attended this continuation of the executive session. 
 
The minutes of the December 1 executive session have not yet been released to the public 
and were reviewed in camera; therefore, we only summarize their content here.  During the 
December 1 executive session, the Board expressed an interest in negotiating an extension of the 
probationary period in TA Martin’s contract.  TA Martin did not agree to extend her probation.  
The Board voted to terminate TA Martin.  The Board then adjourned from executive session and 
again voted to terminate TA Martin, this time in open session.   
 
 
5 In the course of our investigation, Chair Bail has represented through counsel that he sent a text message that was 
similar in substance the day before, Friday, November 28.  Neither party was able to produce a copy of that text 
message. 
6 Minutes of the open session reflect that it was called to order at 5:56 p.m.  A public body may briefly delay starting 
a posted meeting without running afoul of the Open Meeting Law.  However, if the meeting is significantly 
postponed, or rescheduled, the body must post notice 48 hours in advance of the new meeting.  See, e.g., OML 
2026-18 (delay of 20 minutes violated the Open Meeting Law).  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at 
the Attorney General’s website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Some members of the Board believed that TA Martin’s probation was about to expire in 
the coming days, making the vote time-sensitive.  TA Martin has maintained that her probation 
had expired months earlier.  The debate regarding the end date of TA Martin’s probation arises 
out of disagreement over whether it began on March 3, the date her employment began, or June 
2, the date that she took on full duty as Town Administrator. 
 
DISCUSSION 
  
I. Notice of the December 1 meeting was not sufficiently specific. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  A public 
body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the 
Open Meeting Law provided that it complies with certain procedural requirements.  G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 21(a), (b).  One permissible purpose for convening in executive session is to “conduct 
strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(2) 
(“Purpose 2”).   
 
  Before entering an executive session, the chair must announce the purpose of the 
executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose 
for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District 
Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary . . . because that is the 
only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the 
only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper.”).  When 
convening in executive session under Purpose 2, a public body should identify, both in the notice 
and in the open session announcement, the specific nonunion personnel that is the subject of 
discussion under Purpose 2, unless disclosure would compromise the public body’s negotiating 
position.  See OML 2025-167; OML 2016-70; OML 2015-193.
7  The Board did not do so. 
 
  In its responses to the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board has not argued that 
identification of TA Martin as the subject of the Purpose 2 discussion would have compromised 
its negotiating position.  Indeed, as TA Martin and her counsel were advised of, and invited to 
attend, the executive session, inclusion of her name in the notice topic would not have 
compromised the Board’s position.  The Board was therefore required to identify TA Martin as 
the subject of the Purpose 2 executive session.  See OML 2024-47 (identifying deputy director of 
planning in notice as subject of Purpose 2 discussion would not have compromised 
Commission’s negotiating position, as she attended executive sessions); OML 2013-195 
(revealing name of individual whose contract was being discussed would not have been 
detrimental to Board’s negotiating position because the union and non-union employees whose 
contracts were being negotiated were aware of executive sessions).  By failing to identify TA 
 
7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Martin in the notice of the December 1 meeting and in the announcement prior to entering 
executive session, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.8  
 
The complaint alleges that the notice of the December 1 executive session also was 
insufficiently specific for failure to include as a topic TA Martin’s possible termination.  A 
public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not including 
Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  A notice of meeting must include 
“a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  Id.   
The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to 
be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
Emails during the week leading up to the Monday, December 1 meeting, especially Chair 
Bail’s email to TA Martin, confirm that 48 hours prior to the December 1 meeting, the chair 
reasonably anticipated that the Board would discuss termination of TA Martin at the meeting.  
Chair Bail told TA Martin that as of Tuesday, November 25, “I knew I couldn’t support you 
anymore.”  TA Martin’s termination was not listed as an anticipated topic of discussion either of 
the open session or of the executive session but the Board held a vote during each session to 
terminate TA Martin.   
 
For purposes of our analysis of whether termination should have been explicitly listed as 
a topic in the notices, the relevant inquiry is whether the termination was part of the discussion of 
the noticed topic (negotiations with non-union personnel) or a stand-alone topic that should have 
been listed as a distinct topic in the notice.  Although a close question, we find that the Board did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law by not including termination as a topic of discussion in the 
notice.  Taken as a whole, the information before us places the discussion and vote to terminate 
TA Martin into a broader discussion regarding contract negotiations, the sole topic of the 
executive session notice.  Even Chair Bail, who sought termination, couched it in the broader 
context of negotiations.  In his email to TA Martin the prior week, he told her that “[t]he 
executive session is for negotiations with you.”  Moreover, prior to voting to terminate TA 
Martin, the Board discussed extending her probationary period, an offer that was declined by TA 
Martin.  The discussion and vote to terminate TA Martin was not so removed from the executive 
session purpose set out in the notice that the Open Meeting Law required that it be separately 
listed.  Cf. OML 2014-140 (finding violation where director of assessments was fired during 
executive session that was noticed “to discuss exemptions and abatements”); OML 2014-24 
(finding violation where committee entered executive session under Purpose 10 (which relates to 
discussions of trade secrets or confidential, competitively-sensitive or other proprietary 
information as an energy supplier) and eliminated position of director of electricity, thereby 
terminating the current director).9 
 
8 We also note our concern about the Board’s conflation of executive session purposes.  Member Labonte requested 
that notice be posted under Purpose 2 but referenced complaints about TA Martin and quoted the language of 
Purpose 1.  We encourage the Board to refer to the Open Meeting Law Guide for further information about the ten 
executive session purposes.  The guide is available at https://www.mass.gov/doc/open-meeting-law-guide-
5/download. 
9 We note that the Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to execute agreements with nonunion personnel in 
open session.  See, e.g., OML 2021-187 (finding violation where public body voted in executive session to amend 
 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
In his request for review, the complainant suggests that we nullify the votes to terminate 
TA Martin on December 1.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c) (providing that “[u]pon the finding of a 
violation, the attorney general may issue an order to . . . nullify in whole or in part any action 
taken at the meeting”).  We decline to do so.  The public was deprived of notice of the nonunion 
personnel to be discussed at the December 1 meeting but TA Martin was not.  The subject of a 
Purpose 2 discussion is not entitled to individual notice under the Open Meeting Law.  
Nonetheless, TA Martin and her counsel were invited to the December 1 executive session.  
Chair Bail notified her prior to the meeting that the Board would hold an executive session for 
the purpose of negotiating with her, and even that he intended to make a motion not to extend her 
contract during the meeting.  Moreover, we understand that after the December 1 meeting, 
notwithstanding the violations found in this determination, TA Martin, represented by Attorney 
Clifford, and the Town, pursued and ultimately exhausted settlement negotiations.  For all of 
these reasons, we decline to exercise our authority to nullify the December votes.  Cf. OML 
2024-27 (Commission ordered to revisit discussion and vote to hire Director of Planning where 
Commission completed hiring process over the course of two executive sessions which candidate 
for position of Director attended and during which no negotiations were conducted). 
 
II. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it discussed a topic in open 
session after the Chair announced that it would reconvene in open session only to 
adjourn the meeting.  
 
As explained above, a public body may meet in executive session for one or more of the 
executive session purposes set forth in the Open Meeting Law, provided that it meet certain 
procedural requirements.  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b).  Among these is the requirement that the chair 
“publicly announce whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive 
session.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b).  Failure to announce whether the public body will reconvene is 
not a mere technical violation.  See OML 2013-144 (explaining that “the requirement that a body 
state whether it plans to reconvene in open session following an executive session . . . serves to 
give the public notice of something that is about to occur”); OML 2011-21 (explaining that 
“[t]he purpose of this requirement is to inform members of the public whether the public body 
will reconvene in open session to conduct business, so that attendees know whether or not to 
wait for the open session to resume”); OML 2011-32 (explaining that “[t]he purpose of the 
announcement is to inform members of the public whether the public body will reconvene in 
open session to transact additional business so that the public may decide whether they wish to 
be present for those open discussions”).  Failure to follow required procedures casts doubt on the 
validity of any action taken during an executive session.  See OML 2023-207; OML 2019-66; 
OML 2013-195.   
 
Here, the Board announced prior to entering executive session that it would return to 
open session only to adjourn the meeting.  Rather than simply adjourning, however, the Board 
returned to open session and voted to terminate TA Martin under the probationary provision of 
her contract.  The Board has argued that the open session vote was requested by TA Martin, 
through her counsel.  Even assuming arguendo that the open session vote was conducted at TA 
 
highway director’s employment contract to terminate contract and to make severance payment).  However, a vote to 
discontinue negotiations need not be made in open session.  See OML 2016-164. 
 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
Martin’s request, the Board was not permitted to discuss or vote on a matter after it announced 
that it would return to open session only to adjourn the meeting.  The public should be able to 
rely on the Chair’s open session statement of the Board’s intentions, regardless of whatever 
agreements are later made behind closed doors.   Here, the Chair announced that the Board 
would reconvene in open session but only to adjourn, effectively depriving the public of the 
opportunity to decide whether to be present for any additional open session business.  We find 
that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as to this allegation. 
 
III. We find no violation with respect to the allegation that the Board deliberated 
outside of a posted meeting. 
 
Except when convened in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open 
to the public.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation 
by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly as “an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction . . . .”  Id.   
 
The Board is comprised of three members.  Therefore, two members constitute a quorum.  
The complaint alleges that Chair Bail and Member Labonte deliberated about TA Martin outside 
a posted meeting.  In support of this allegation, the complainant alleges that both members 
advanced unusual and incorrect calculations of TA Martin’s probationary period, which could 
not have been reached independently.  However, as we have repeatedly explained, agreement 
without substantive discussion among public body members or the lack of substantive discussion 
prior to a vote is insufficient to support the inference that those members deliberated outside of a 
noticed meeting.  See OML 2025-15; OML 2017-93; OML 2013-128.  Emails sent by Chair Bail 
and Member Labonte on November 25 and 26, including Member Labonte’s comment to ATA 
Young that “If Mark has already reached out, this is just confirmation,” create an appearance of 
improper communication between those two members.  However, the Board denies any 
deliberation outside a meeting.  Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public 
body’s account of the facts.  See OML 2023-121; OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141.  The evidence 
that we have reviewed is insufficient to find that the Board deliberated outside a meeting. 
 
Although we find no violation as to this allegation, we note our concern that members of 
the Board do not appear to understand the prohibition against deliberations outside a meeting.  
For example, on November 20, Chair Bail emailed Member Labonte, asking that he contact him.  
Member Labonte denies that he responded to the email or otherwise communicated with Chair 
Bail prior to the Board’s December 1 meeting.  Additionally, Member Labonte asked ATA 
Young to forward an email to other members of the Board, something ATA Young declined to 
do out of concern that it would violate the Open Meeting Law.  These two incidents narrowly 
avoided improper deliberation.   
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to identify either in the notice or in the announcement TA Martin as the subject of the 
===PAGE 8===
8 
 
December 1 executive session and by holding a vote in open session after the chair announced 
that it would reconvene in open session only to adjourn the meeting.  We order immediate and 
future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations 
could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  Additionally, in light of the Board’s 
misunderstanding of multiple areas of the Open Meeting Law, as revealed by this Open Meeting 
Law complaint, we order all members of the Board to attend an Open Meeting Law training 
webinar provided by our office within 90 days of the date of this letter, and to certify to our 
office that they have done so.
10 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Mark L Bail, Chair, Granby Select Board (via email: ) 
 Attorney John Collins, Town of Granby (via email: ) 
 Holly Young, Assistant Town Administrator (via email: ata@granby-ma.gov) 
 Emily Reed, Granby Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@granby -ma.gov) 
 John Clifford (via email: ) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
10 Information on upcoming webinars is available on the Attorney General’s website, 
https://wwwmass.gov/servicedetails/open-meeting-law-trainings. 
