===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
March 2, 2023 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY     OML 2023 – 25 
 
Karen Tonelli 
Director of Assessing 
Town of Montague 
One Avenue A 
Turner Falls, MA 01376 
assessor@montague-ma.gov  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Director Tonelli: 
This office received two separate complaints from Chris Pinardi on November 8, 2022, 
alleging that the Montague Board of Assessors (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Board on October 19, 2022, 
and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated November 4, 2022. The complaints 
allege that on October 18, 2022, 1 the Board deliberated outside of a posted meeting and that it 
did not address a topic that was included on the meeting notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
engaged in deliberation outside of an open meeting. We find that the Board did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaints, the Board’s response to the complaints, and the complainant’s request for 
further review. We also reviewed the notices and minutes for the Board’s October 18 and 
October 31 meetings. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Montague Board of Assessors is a public body 
consisting of three members. According to its website, “Assessors value personal and real 
property each year for the purpose of taxation using acceptable methods of valuation.” The 
“[a]ssessed values determine the distribution of property tax levies among taxpayers . . . in order 
to meet the requirements set forth by the legislature and state regulations.”   
The Board posted notice for a meeting to take place on October 18, which included the 
discussion topic “Emails, correspondence or other communications.” On October 18, prior to the 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
start of the meeting, all three Board members and the Director of Assessing2 were engaged in a 
conversation. The complainant states that he witnessed the discussion and a property card being 
viewed. He could not, however, hear what was being discussed and states that the conversation 
ended shortly after he arrived. In its response, the Board stated that the three Board members and 
Director of Assessing were “engaged in general conversation about the real estate market and 
looked at several photographs of houses . . .  that had recently sold in Montague.” It added that 
the discussion “was very general in nature about the continued increase in real estate prices in 
town.” The Board did not address the topic “Emails, correspondence or other communications” 
during the October 18 meeting. The October 18 meeting minutes reflect that the Board discussed 
“property sales” during the meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law therefore requires that “[e]xcept 
as provided in [G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)], all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.” 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). Meeting is defined, in part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Deliberation is defined broadly 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, 
however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling 
information or distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or 
documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed.” Id. A one-way communication from one public body member to a quorum on 
business within a body’s jurisdiction is deliberation, even if no other members respond. See 
OML 2020-136; OML 2019-144.3 For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a 
simple majority of the members of a public body. Id.  
 
There are several exemptions to the definition of deliberation, which are construed 
narrowly. See OML 2020-169; OML 2016-172; OML 2014-51. For example, deliberation does 
not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information, or distribution of 
reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member 
is expressed. See OML 2015-69. We find that the discussion – real estate price trends in 
Montague – between the three Board members and Director of Assessors does not fit within any 
of the enumerated exemptions to the definition of deliberation and was a matter within the 
Board’s jurisdiction. Moreover, the Board’s October 18 meeting minutes reflect that a discussion 
of “property sales” occurred during the open meeting. The Board believes it did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law because “no specific details about the properties were discussed and no 
changes or other actions to the property cards were discussed, decided upon or made.” We 
disagree. Although we acknowledge that the Board members’ remarks regarding real estate 
prices may have been innocuous and unrelated to action to be taken regarding any particular 
parcel, the Open Meeting Law’s definition of “deliberation” is not limited to opinion or decision-
 
2 We refer to you in the third person for the sake of clarity. 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
making communications. Therefore, we find that the discussion prior to the start of the October 
18 meeting constituted an impermissible deliberation outside of a posted meeting. 
  
 Next, t he complainant alleges that a violation of the Open Meeting Law occurred when 
the Board did not hold any discussion of the “Emails, correspondence or other communications” 
topic that was included in the October 18 meeting notice. While the Open Meeting Law requires 
that a meeting notice list all topics the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed during a 
meeting, the Law does not prohibit a public body from removing, postponing, or declining to 
discuss a topic listed on a meeting notice. See OML 2021-41; OML 2014-35; 2012-23. In fact, 
the Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to discuss any topic. See OML 2015-73; 
OML 2014-98; OML 2013-64; OML 2012-23. Thus, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by deciding not to discuss this topic at its October 18 meeting. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated  the Open Meeting Law 
when it engaged in deliberation outside of an open meeting. We order the Board’s immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a determination by our 
office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
Open Meeting Law.  
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Mary L. Nguyen 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Chris Pinardi (via e- mail: ) 
  Montague Town Clerk (via e- mail: townclerk@montague-ma.gov) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
