===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 22, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 85 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Naomi Stonberg, Esq.  
Counsel to Middleton School Committee 
Brody, Hardoon, Perkins & Kesten, LLP 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Attorney Stonberg: 
 
This office received a complaint from Carolyn Damato-MacPherson on November 30, 
2020,1 alleging that the Middleton School Committee (the “Committee”), and specifically 
Committee members Kristina Esposito, Natasha Bansfield, Fred Clapp, and Jennifer Pesce, 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with 
the Committee on September 3, and, after receiving an extension of time from this office, you 
responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated October 8. The complaint alleges that, 
prior to the Committee’s August 12 meeting at which it voted on a school reopening plan, 
Committee members Esposito, Bansfield, Clapp, and Pesce deliberated outside of a properly 
noticed meeting regarding the reopening plan.        
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint, the response, additional 
information provided to our office by the Committee, and a video recording of the Committee’s 
August 12 meeting.2 We also communicated with Counsel for the Committee3 by email and 
telephone. 
 
1 All dates are in 2020, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the Committee’s August 12 meeting can be found at 
https://middletonma.gov/CivicMedia?VID=272. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
On the complaint form, under the section inquiring what action the Complainant would 
like the Committee to take in response to her complaint, the Complainant requested that Counsel 
“review all communications subject to the Massachusetts Public Records Law between 
[Committee members Esposito, Bansfield, Clapp, and Pesce] for the months of July 2020, and 
August 2020, to determine whether a violation occurred.” In response to this request, the 
Committee asked Counsel to perform such an investigation. The Committee’s written response 
to the complaint reflects that Counsel reviewed over 1100 emails dated between July 1 and 
August 31, but does not mention any review of text messages. After receiving the Committee’s 
response, the Complainant filed a request for further review with our office because Counsel’s 
review of communications between Committee members did not include text messages.    
 
Our office performed a review of the available evidence, including a video recording of 
the August 12 meeting and responses from the Committee to requests from our office for 
additional information, specifically for any text messages exchanged between Committee 
members regarding school reopening plans. In response to our request, the Committee explained 
that no such text messages exist because Committee members did not exchange any text 
messages with one another regarding school reopening plans. We find no evidence that 
Committee members communicated by any means, including text message, outside of a noticed 
meeting prior to the August 12 meeting regarding a school reopening plan. In fact, the video 
recording of the August 12 meeting supports a finding that no such deliberation occurred outside 
of a meeting prior to the August 12 meeting. In support of the Complainant’s “suspicion that 
[Committee members had deliberated] regarding the school reopening plan, and the motion for a 
full 5-day reopening,” prior to the August 12 meeting, the Complainant asserts that the vote for a 
full-time, in-person reopening happened quickly and explains that “[c]ontentious votes like this 
don’t ever happen quickly and without some time and additional thought. This was rapid fire.” 
We have stated in prior determinations that agreement without substantive discussion among 
public body members or even the lack of substantive discussion prior to a vote is, on its own, 
insufficient to support the inference that public body members deliberated outside of a noticed 
meeting. See OML 2021-30; OML 2017-125; OML 2017-93; OML 2013-128.4  
 
Here, the video recording of the Committee’s August 12 meeting shows that, although 
the vote on Member Bansfield’s motion for a full, in-person return to school happened quickly, 
the motion for such a return came after hours of presentations and discussion regarding 
reopening plans, and specifically after approximately twenty-six minutes of discussion regarding 
Member Bansfield’s original motion which was to return to school in-person for five half days 
per week. The video recording shows that the Committee was clearly working through the issue 
in real-time, and that after much discussion of her original motion, Member Bansfield decided to 
withdraw that motion and propose a new motion for a full-time, in-person return to school. 
Additionally, an email provided to our office and sent by Member Esposito to Member 
Richardson the day after the August 12 meeting further supports a finding that no deliberation 
regarding a school reopening plan occurred outside of a noticed meeting prior to the August 12 
meeting. In her August 13 email, Member Esposito requested that the Committee hold an 
emergency meeting to review the vote taken the night before because she felt uncomfortable and 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
conflicted about the previous evening’s decision. In her email, Member Esposito explains that 
“[i]t would have been helpful if we had individual conversations so we could have found 
common ground before the meeting.” Based on the available evidence, we find that the 
Committee did not deliberate outside of a noticed meeting regarding the school reopening plan 
prior to the August 12 meeting. 
 
Although we find no violation here, we note that Counsel, in the course of her review of 
communications among the members between July 1 and August 31, did discover a few 
instances of deliberation outside of a properly noticed meeting via email and telephone. These 
instances did not relate to the school reopening plan that is the subject of the complaint and we 
therefore do not formally review them here. However, we take this opportunity to remind the 
Committee that the Open Meeting Law requires that all deliberations of a public body take place 
during a properly noticed meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The Law defines “deliberation” broadly 
as any “oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between 
or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” The 
exception to the definition of deliberation for the distribution of administrative and procedural 
information is limited. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2016-52; OML 2017-165. A one-way 
communication from one public body member to a quorum on matters within the body’s 
jurisdiction constitutes deliberation, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 
2016-104; OML 2015-33; OML 2012-73. Finally, a public body may not engage in serial 
communication whereby a quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of 
a meeting on a subject within the public body’s jurisdiction. See OML 2015-3; OML 2011-27; 
OML 2012-84; OML 2011-27; McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that 
private serial communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to 
circumvent the intent of the law). To the extent that Counsel identified emails among Committee 
members that constituted improper deliberation outside of a noticed meeting, we recommend that 
the Committee release those emails to the public by identifying them during a future meeting and 
attaching them to the meeting minutes, if it has not already taken some other remedial action. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
cc: Natasha Bansfield, Chair, Middleton School Committee (via email: 
  
Carolyn Damato-MacPherson (via e-mail:  
   
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
