===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 25, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 81 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Angela Dolan 
Chair, Swansea Free Public Library Board of Trustees 
adolan@swanseama.gov 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Angela Dolan: 
This office received a complaint that Patrick Higgins on February 12, 2024, alleging that 
the Swansea Free Public Library Building Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on 
January 15, and you responded on behalf of the Committee on February 12, following an 
extension of time granted by our office.  The complaint alleges that the Committee discussed a 
prior Open Meeting Law complaint during the Committee’s January 8 meeting without including 
the complaint as a topic for discussion on the notice for that meeting. 
Following review, we resolve this complaint by informal action, in accordance with 940 
CMR 29.07(2)(a).1  The Committee acknowledges, and we find, that the Committee violated the 
Open Meeting Law by discussing the prior Open Meeting Law complaint without including that 
complaint as a topic for discussion on the meeting notice.  The Committee represents that its 
Chair now understands the obligation to circulate an Open Meeting Law complaint to the public 
body members and to review the complaint during a meeting within 14 business days of receipt.
2  
In addition, the Committee represents that it understands that it should have amended the 
meeting notice, which had already been posted before the complaint was received on January 2, 
to add the complaint as a topic of discussion for its January 8 meeting.     
 
1 “Informal Action. The Attorney General may resolve the investigation with a letter or other appropriate form of 
written communication that explains the violation and clarifies the subject's obligations under M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 
through 25, providing the subject with a reasonable period of time to comply with any outstanding obligations.”  940 
CMR 29.07(2)(a). 
2 Within 14 business days of receiving an Open Meeting Law complaint, the chair must distribute the complaint to 
all members of the public body, the public body must meet to review the complaint, and the public body must then 
respond to the complainant in writing and provide our office with a copy of the complaint and the response.  See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
Jim Devol, Chair, Swansea Free Public Library Building Committee (via email: 
) 
Swansea Town Clerk (via email: dpelland@swanseama.gov) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
