===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
February 18, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 15 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Edmund St. John, Esq.  
2 Center Street  
P.O. Box 228 
Adams, MA 01220 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney St. John: 
This Office received a complaint from Catherine Foster on August 5, 2020, alleging that 
the Adams Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 30, and you responded on behalf 
of the Board by letter dated July 1, pursuant to an extension granted by our Office.1 In her 
complaint, Ms. Foster alleges that 1) the Board deliberated outside of a posted meeting via email, 
and 2) the Board muted Ms. Foster during a public hearing in which she had a right to 
participate.  
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we conducted our review. Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed emails that Board members sent 
and received between March 17 and May 4, which Ms. Foster provided to us. Finally, we 
reviewed transcripts of the Board’s May 6 and May 20 meetings, provided by Ms. Foster.  
DISCUSSION 
1. The Board did not deliberate outside of a meeting via email.  
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
emergency, “a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A “meeting” is 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id. For the purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id. 
 Here, Ms. Foster alleges that the Board discussed her appeal between posted meetings via 
email. We reviewed the emails which Ms. Foster received in response to a public records 
request, which she contends show such deliberation. The emails document communications 
between certain town employees and members of the Board regarding Ms. Foster’s appeal, 
which is undoubtably a topic within the Board’s jurisdiction. However, at no point does any 
member of the Board send an email to a quorum of the Board. Indeed, the only email which was 
received by a quorum of the Board was one sent by the Health and Safety Code Enforcement 
Officer, a town employee, to the full Board. Individual public officials who are not members of a 
public body, such as the Health and Safety Code Enforcement Officer, are not subject to the 
Open Meeting Law. See OML 2018-44; OML 2012-28.2 As none of the emails show 
communication from a Board member to a quorum of Board members, we find that the Board 
did not deliberate outside of a posted meeting, and find no violation of the Open Meeting Law.  
2. The Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it allowed Ms. Foster to speak 
only during a designated portion of its meeting.   
 The complaint alleges that the Board kept Ms. Foster on mute for a portion of a public 
hearing on May 6 while the Town’s Code Enforcement Officer explained why he had issued a no 
occupancy order regarding an apartment owned by Ms. Foster. In particular, Ms. Foster notes 
that she was not able to object to the Code Enforcement Officer’s testimony while he was 
speaking. The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow public participation, 
but rather provides that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body without permission 
of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.” G.L. c. 30A § 20(f). As 
such, the Law gives the chair of the public body discretion to decide whether to permit public 
comment during a meeting. See OML 2020-20; OML 2017-189. As the Open Meeting Law 
leaves public participation to the discretion of the public body’s chair, we find that the Board did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law in this respect.3 Nevertheless, the Attorney General 
encourages public bodies to allow public participation during meetings whenever possible. See 
OML 2018-27; OML 2015-12. 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
3 Ms. Foster argues that the Board’s actions violate the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations regarding 
audio standards for remote participation. The Open Meeting Law requires that “[m]embers of a public body who 
participate remotely and all persons present at the meeting location shall be clearly audible to each other[.]” G. L. c. 
30A, § 20(d); 940 CMR 29.10(4)(a) (“Minimum Requirements for Remote Participation”). The Attorney General’s 
regulations require that all remote participants who are granted permission to speak by the chair be clearly audible to 
other meeting participants. The standards for audio quality do not grant a right to speak to a member of the public 
who would not otherwise possess that right. See OML 2021-2.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 Although the Open Meeting Law does not require that members of the public be 
permitted to speak or otherwise actively participate during a meeting, numerous laws in the 
Commonwealth require that a public hearing be held before the government takes certain action.4 
The specific procedures for notice and conduct of the public hearing are governed by the law 
requiring the hearing and such law may require opportunity for public comment. Because the 
Division of Open Government’s review only concerns compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, we do not review whether the Board adequately provided an 
opportunity for Ms. Foster to participate in the May 6 public hearing as may have been 
guaranteed by the separate law governing the particular type of public hearing at issue. See 
OML 2020-114.   
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our Office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Catherine Foster (via e-mail:  
 Adams Board of Health c/o Administrative Assistan Pamela Gerry  (via e-mail: 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 See, e.g., G.L. c. 30A, § 2 (state agencies must hold a hearing prior to the adoption, amendment, or repeal of 
regulations); G.L. c. 114, § 38 (a Commission of health shall hold a hearing before a tomb, burial ground or 
cemetery is closed); G.L. c. 121A, § 6 (a local planning Commission shall hold a hearing on a proposed 
redevelopment project); G.L. c. 40A, § 15 (a local Commission of appeal shall hold a hearing on any zoning appeal, 
application or petition). 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 