===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
June 14, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 113 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Chair Huntley Harrison 
Chatham Airport Commission 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Harrison: 
This office received a complaint from David Bixby on March 2, 2022, alleging that the 
Chatham Airport Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on January 19, 2022, and the 
Commission responded by letter dated February 14, 2022. In his complaint, Mr. Bixby alleges a 
quorum of the Commission may have deliberated outside of a posted meeting.  
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Commission’s 
response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We emailed with 
Mr. Bixby regarding his complaint in April and June of 2022.    
DISCUSSION 
 The Open Meeting Law is designed to eliminate “much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Law defines a “meeting” as “a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A 
“deliberation” is defined as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction.” Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of 
the members of the public body, “unless otherwise provided in a general or special law, 
executive order or other authorizing provision.” Id. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Commission deliberated outside of a noticed 
meeting. The complaint states that this allegation is based on information that the Commission’s 
consultant disclosed during a public meeting, when the consultant stated that he had met with the 
Commission’s Chair and “a few others” regarding Commission business outside of a posted 
meeting.  
 The Commission has seven members, thus four members constitute a quorum. In its 
response, the Commission explained that the referenced meeting included only two members of 
the Commission and some staff members, who are not members of the Commission. When 
questioned, Mr. Bixby was unable to identify any specific facts that would support a conclusion 
that a quorum of the Commission participated in the referenced meeting. Absent sufficient 
evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s version of the facts. See OML 2017-169.1 
Therefore, we find that a quorum of the Commission was not present at the relevant meeting and 
therefore no deliberation occurred. See OML 2018-141; OML 2017-168. As such, we find that 
the Commission did not violate the Law.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: David Bixby (via e-mail:  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 