===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
October 20, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 148 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Susan Bak 
Chair, Boxborough Personnel Board 
  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Bak: 
 
This office received a complaint from Mark Barbadoro on September 1, 2021,1 alleging 
that the Boxborough Personnel Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 16, and you responded 
on behalf of the Board by letter dated July 30. The complaint alleges that the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law when it held its June 29 meeting at a physical location without additionally 
providing alternative means of access to the meeting or posting a recording or full transcript of 
the meeting.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination we reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaint, 
the Board’s response, the request for further review, and the notice and minutes for the Board’s 
June 29 meeting. Additionally, we communicated with the Complainant on several occasions via 
email.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On June 23 the Board posted notice for a meeting to be 
held on June 29. The notice listed the location of the meeting as Town Hall, 29 Middle Road, 
Boxborough, Morse-Hilberg Room. On June 29 the Board convened its meeting as scheduled in 
the Morse-Hilberg Room of the Boxborough Town Hall.  
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2021, unless otherwise noted. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to 
the public. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of 
a public body shall be open to the public.”). Generally, access to a meeting must include the 
opportunity to be physically present at the meeting location, as well as the opportunity to see and 
hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2017-135.2 On March 
10, 2020, Governor Charles Baker declared a state of emergency in response to the public health 
emergency created by the outbreak of the 2019 novel Coronavirus (“COVID-19”). See Executive 
Order No. 591 (Mar. 10, 2020). On March 12, 2020, Governor Baker issued an executive order 
temporarily suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting Law during the state of 
emergency. See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 
20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”). Relevant here, the Executive Order suspended the 
requirement that meetings be held in locations that are physically accessible to the public, 
provided that the public body provide “adequate, alternative means” of public access. Executive 
Order at § 1. The Executive Order expired on June 15, 2021, when the Governor terminated the 
COVID-19 pandemic state of emergency. On June 16, 2021, Governor Baker signed into law An 
Act Relative To Extending Certain COVID-19 Measures Adopted During the State of 
Emergency, Chapter 20 of the Acts of 2021 (“Chapter 20”). Section 20 of Chapter 20 (“Section 
20”) includes an extension, until April 1, 2022, of the remote meeting provisions established in 
the Executive Order.  
 
Despite slight differences in language, Section 20 tracks the Executive Order almost 
exactly. Just like the Executive Order, Section 20 has two main provisions pertaining to the Open 
Meeting Law. First, it allows a public body to provide “adequate, alternative means” of public 
access to its deliberations in real-time instead of holding meetings in a public place that is open 
and physically accessible to the public. Second, Section 20 authorizes all members of a public 
body to continue participating in meetings remotely; the Open Meeting Law’s requirement that a 
quorum of the body and the chair be physically present at the meeting location remains 
suspended. Additionally, Section 20, like the Executive Order, provides that if a municipal 
public body, for reasons of economic hardship and despite best efforts, is unable to provide live 
alternative means of public access, the public body may instead post a full and complete 
transcript, recording, or other comprehensive record on its website as soon as practicable after 
the meeting. 
 
The complaint asserts that “[r]egardless of whether the board meets partially or 
completely in a publicly accessible location sub section (b) of section 20 [of Chapter 20] requires 
alternative means of public access unless substantial hardship would result.” We disagree. 
Section 20 gives a public body the ability to choose whether to hold a meeting in a location that 
is physically accessible to the public or to instead provide adequate, alternative means of access 
to its meeting. Section 20 states, in relevant part,  
 
Notwithstanding section 20 of chapter 30A of the General Laws or any general or 
special law to the contrary, a public body, as defined in section 18 of said chapter 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
30A, shall not be required to conduct its meetings in a public place that is open and 
physically accessible to the public; provided, that if the public body does not 
conduct the meeting in a public place that is open and physically accessible to the 
public, the public body shall ensure public access to the deliberations of the public 
body for interested members of the public through adequate, alternative means of 
public access. 
 
Chapter 20, § 20(b) (emphasis added). The language in Section 20, just like the language in the 
Executive Order, is clearly permissive; public bodies are only required to provide adequate, 
alternative means of access if they choose to hold meetings that are not physically accessible to 
the public. This interpretation is consistent with our interpretation of the Executive Order, which 
Section 20 was intended to mirror. See OML 2021-79; OML 2021-62.  
 
Here, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on June 29 in the Morse-Hilberg 
Room of the Boxborough Town Hall and a quorum of the Board was present in this physical 
location on June 29. We have not been presented with any evidence that a member of the public 
sought to physically attend the June 29 meeting and was denied access or that the Board limited 
the number of people who could be present in the meeting room. Cf. OML 2021-43 (public body 
violated the Open Meeting Law when it held a meeting in a location with a strict 12-person limit 
and turned away members of the public once the room was at capacity). Likewise, we have not 
been presented with any evidence that a member of the public requested an accommodation on 
the basis of a qualifying disability prior to the June 29 meeting and that the Board did not 
respond to such request.3 There is no requirement under the Open Meeting Law or Section 20 
that a public body provide remote access to its meetings if those meetings are instead held in-
person at a location that is open and physically accessible to the public. Moreover, the Board was 
not required to make an audio or video recording of the meeting. See OML 2021-79; see also 
OML 2020-107 (explaining that the exception to the requirement that remote access to meetings 
be provided in real-time is only available when, due to both economic hardship and despite best 
efforts, a municipal public body is unable to provide real-time remote access). Therefore, we find 
that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it met in person on June 29 and did 
not also provide remote access to the meeting.  
 
Although we do not find a violation here, we encourage public bodies to provide multiple 
means of access to their meetings when possible and remind public bodies that in the spirit of the 
Open Meeting Law, they should strive to make their meetings as accessible as possible. We also 
remind the Board that access to a meeting must include the opportunity to hear what is being 
discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54. If it is 
difficult for members of the public to hear the discussions of the Board at a particular location, 
the location might not be accessible for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. We encourage 
public bodies to consider using sound amplification to ensure that they are audible to all 
members of the public attending their meetings.  
 
 
 
 
3 For guidance on accessibility accommodations that may be required by state or federal law, please contact the 
Attorney General’s Civil Rights Division at 413-523-7710. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Mark Barbadoro (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
