===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
January 14, 2013 
OML 2013 — 3 
Christopher J. Pollart 
Rubin and Rudman LLP 
50 Rowes Wharf 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint — Middleborough Gas and Electric 
Commission  
Dear Attorney Pollart: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Michael Solimini, dated November 20, 2011, 
alleging that the Middleborough Gas and Electric Commission (the "Commission") violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Mr. Solimini's complaint alleges that the 
Commission considered a topic during its September 13, 2011 executive session meeting that 
was not listed in the meeting notice or announced in open session. The complaint was filed with 
the Commission on or around October 19, 2011, though it was not signed or dated. The 
Commission responded to the complaint by letter on November 4, 2011. 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing a topic in executive session that should have been discussed in open session. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Commission on or about 
October 19, 2011; the Commission's November 4, 2011 response; and the November 20, 2011 
complaint. We also reviewed the notice and several drafts of the open and executive session 
minutes of the Commission's September 13, 2011 meeting. 
FACTS 
The Commission posted a notice for its September 13, 2011 meeting on September 9, 
2011. Among the topics listed in the notice was "Executive Session: Land Acquisition." During 
the meeting, the chair made a motion to go into executive session. See September 13, 2011 
Commission Minutes. However, the record does not indicate that he publicly stated the purpose 
for the executive session or that an open meeting would have a detrimental effect on the 
Commission's negotiating position. In that executive session, the Commission did, in fact, 
discuss a land acquisition. However, the executive session also included what the minutes 
===PAGE 2===
deemed an "unintentional" discussion of a topic related to the Tispaquin Family Campground. 
See September 13, 2011 Commission Minutes. That discussion related to service restoration 
after Tropical Storm Irene. In response to the complaint, Counsel for the Commission wrote that 
"[w]e note that the matter involving the [Tispaquin Family Campground] was briefly discussed 
during executive session. We have been told that the Board repeated the discussion that occurred 
in open session, which is why the discussion is reflected in the executive session minutes. That 
portion of the executive session will be made public." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law permits a public body to enter executive, or closed, session for 
any of ten purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Among the ten purposes for executive session is 
Purpose 6, which states that a public body may enter executive session to "consider the purchase, 
exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6). 
Before entering executive session, the chair must "state the purpose for the executive session, 
stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the 
executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). A public body must also post a notice at 
least 48 hours in advance of each meeting, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, 
which must include "a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
The Commission entered into executive session under Purpose 6 during its September 13, 
2011 meeting. Although the Commission's meeting notice stated that the Commission would 
enter executive session to discuss "Land Acquisition," it appears that the chair did not 
specifically state this purpose prior to entering the executive session, and failed to publicly state 
"that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public 
body," as required by the law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6). Once in executive session, the 
Commission discussed two topics. One topic was related to a land acquisition, and was an 
appropriate discussion for executive session under Purpose 6. The other topic involved 
discussing the service restoration to a particular site following Tropical Storm Irene. This topic 
was not appropriate for executive session, as it did not fit within any of the ten enumerated 
purposes for executive session. Therefore, this topic should have been discussed in open session. 
The Commission has taken some remedial steps in response to the complaint. Although 
the Commission did not directly acknowledge in its November 4, 2011 response to the complaint 
that the discussion was inappropriate for executive session, the Commission did agree to publicly 
release that portion of the September 13, 2011 executive session minutes. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing a topic in 
executive session at its September 13, 2011 meeting that should have been discussed in open 
session. We order the Commission's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, and caution the Commission that a similar future violation may be considered evidence of 
an intentional violation of the law. Additionally, we order the Commission to publicly release 
this portion of the minutes from its September 13, 2011 executive session, if it has not done so 
2 
===PAGE 3===
already, unless the attorney/client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies. 
We now consider this matter closed. We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the 
parties during this investigation. This letter does not resolve any other complaints that may be 
pending with the Commission or this office. If you have any questions regarding this letter, or 
believe any of the facts stated are incorrect, please do not hesitate to contact me. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsie' 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Michael Solimini 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3 