===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
February 13, 2020 
OML 2020-21
Timothy Luff 
Assistant Superintendent 
Natick Public Schools 
13 East Central Street 
Natick, MA 01760
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Assistant Superintendent Luff1:
This office received a complaint from Ronald Alexander on August 6, 2019, alleging that 
the Natick School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A,
§§ 18-25.2 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on June 5 and you responded, 
on behalf of the Committee, by email dated June 19.3 The complaint alleges that the Committee 
i) posted an insufficiently detailed notice for its May 20 meeting; ii) failed to follow the proper 
procedures for convening in executive session on May 20; and iii) entered into executive session 
for an improper purpose on May 20.
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law failing 
to comply with one procedural requirement for convening in executive session, although we find 
that violation to be de minimis. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review. In addition, we reviewed the original and amended notices and the 
open and executive session minutes of the Committee meeting held on May 20, as well as a 
video recording of that meeting.4
1 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter.
2 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2019.
3 Mr. Alexander identifies this complaint as “NSC-2019-8.”
4 A video recording of the May 20 meeting can be found here:
https://videoplayer.telvue.com/player/994DtmGEsi0VDYK3jJI2BJ72GfgNIpU2/playlists/4739/media/4808387sequ 
enceNumber=l 1 &autostart=false&showtabssearch=true.

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Town of Natick has adopted its website as its official 
method for posting meeting notices. On May 15 at 4:10 P.M., the Committee posted notice to its 
website for a meeting to be held on May 20 at 6:00 P.M. The notice listed eight main topics, 
with several subtopics listed under these main headings. One of the topics was an executive 
session to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining and in preparation for 
negotiations with nonunion personnel. This notice listed the collective bargaining units to be 
discussed but stated that a list of nonunion positions could be found “under attachments in 
Novus”; the notice did not include a link to that attachment.
On May 16 at 6:59 P.M., the Committee revised its notice to insert into the notice itself, 
rather than through a separate document, the specific nonunion personnel with whom it would be 
negotiating during the May 20 executive session. On May 17 at 10:18 A.M., the Committee 
revised its notice again to further clarify the nonunion personnel with whom it would be 
negotiating.
The May 20 meeting was held as planned. The Committee first convened in open session 
at 6:00 P.M. and voted by roll call to convene in executive session. Committee Chair Julie 
McDonough announced that the purpose of the executive session was “to discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining and in preparation for negotiations with non-union personnel. . . 
if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government’s bargaining or litigating 
position.” Chair McDonough did not specifically state that having this discussion in open 
session may have a detrimental effect on the Committee’s negotiating position. She did identify 
the specific collective bargaining units and nonunion personnel with whom the Committee would 
be negotiating and announced that the Committee would reconvene in open session following the 
executive session. Because the Committee has not publicly released the minutes of the executive 
session, we do not recount their content in detail here. However, we note that during the 
executive session, the Committee reviewed and discussed the collective bargaining contracts for 
Units A and B and then discussed potential salary and wage ranges for specific school positions, 
rather than individual school employees.
The Board reconvened in open session and received presentations from six students 
regarding orientation for new high school students and from High School Principal Brian 
Harrigan regarding a School Improvement Plan. The Committee was introduced to the new 
Director of Special Education who reviewed her goals for the school year. The Committee then 
heard from the Natick Special Education Parent Advisory Council and received updates on the 
new Social Studies curriculum and Kennedy Middle School project. Finally, the Committee 
approved a contract amendment for testing services for the Kennedy Middle School project, 
three sets of meeting minutes, the 2019/2020 Committee meeting schedule, and updated school 
policies.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of
2

===PAGE 3===
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). A public 
body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the 
Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is 
recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether 
the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.5
Before entering the executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive 
session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the 
N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm, of Wayland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the 
reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only notification 
given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the 
public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”). This level of detail 
about the executive session topic must also be included in the meeting notice. See OML 20lb- 
72.
A public body may convene in executive session to “conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel” (“Purpose 2”); and “to discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining ... if an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the bargaining ... position of the public body and the chair so declares” (“Purpose 3”). 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(2) and (3). When convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2 or 
Purpose 3, a public body must identify the collective bargaining unit or nonunion personnel with 
whom it will be negotiating, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy. See 
OML 2017-53; OML 2016-43; OML 2015-87; OML 2013-129.
The complaint alleges that the executive session topic listed on the May 20 notice lacked 
sufficient detail where it did not include the specific nonunion personnel with whom the 
Committee would be negotiating. Instead, the meeting notice that was posted on May 15 simply 
stated that a list of nonunion positions could be found in a separate document but did not include 
a link to that document. We note that on May 15, prior to posting the meeting notice, Assistant 
Superintendent Luff contacted our office seeking guidance on the acceptable method for posting 
a meeting notice containing a lengthy list of nonunion personnel to be discussed in executive 
session. With the deadline for posting notice approaching, the Committee posted its notice that 
day, before receiving a response. The following day, on May 16, Assistant Superintendent Luff 
spoke with an Assistant Attorney General who advised that our office has not previously opined 
whether posting required information at a separate link, rather than on the face of the notice 
itself, satisfies the Open Meeting Law, and therefore it would be advisable to include all of the 
information on the notice rather than by separate link. That same day, the Committee amended
5 Open Meeting Law detenninations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
its notice to include the list of nonunion personnel on the notice, rather than by link to a separate 
document.
We commend the Committee for seeking guidance from this office on an issue that the 
Open Meeting Law does not directly address and on which the Attorney General had not 
previously issued guidance, and for amending its notice promptly thereafter. We take this 
opportunity to clarify that, even for public bodies that use a website as their official notice 
posting location, meeting notices should include on the notice itself the level of detail that the 
Open Meeting Law requires, without requiring that users navigate to separate pages or 
documents.6 Accord OML 2019-24, n. 4 (public bodies that post physical notices to a bulletin 
board must include all required information on the meeting notice itself, even when the notice is 
several pages long; it is not acceptable to direct members of the public to additional pages on file 
in the clerk’s office).
The complaint also challenges the propriety of the Committee’s May 20 executive 
session. We conclude that the discussions in executive session, which pertained to strategy 
sessions in preparation for contract negotiations with school personnel, fell within a proper 
statutory purpose. A public body may strategize and negotiate with specific nonunion personnel 
in executive session under Purpose 2. See OML 2011-56. Here, the Committee did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law by meeting in executive session to conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for contract negotiations with nonunion school personnel. Moreover, we find that 
the notice was sufficiently detailed even though it included a list of nonunion positions, rather 
than nonunion personnel, because the Committee only discussed school positions, rather than 
individual school employees, during the executive session. See OML 2018-39.
Finally, we find that the Committee failed to comply with one procedural requirement for 
convening in executive session. The Committee properly convened in open session, approved a 
vote by roll call to enter into executive session, and announced that it would resume in open 
session following its executive session. Moreover, Chair McDonough’s announcement included 
the specific collective bargaining units and nonunion personnel with whom the Committee would 
be negotiating. However, the Chair failed to make the required statement that holding a 
discussion in open session may have a detrimental effect on the Committee’s bargaining 
position. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). Prior to convening in executive session, Chair McDonough 
simply read from the law stating “if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect” on the 
Committee’s bargaining position, but failed to specifically declare that discussions in open 
session may have a detrimental effect on the Committee’s negotiating position. See OML 2015- 
13. As such, we are constrained to find a violation of the Open Meeting Law but find that the 
violation is de minimus and we do not order release of executive session meeting minutes. See 
OML 2019-34; OML 2016-75.
6 With regard to the requirement that the “date and time that a meeting notice is posted ... be conspicuously 
recorded thereon or therewith,” it continues to be acceptable for a public body to list on its website the date and time 
the notice is posted, rather than pre-printing that information on the notice document itself. See 940 CMR 
29.03(1 )(d); OML 2018-53. This practice allows for an accurate recording of the date and time that a notice is 
actually posted.
4

===PAGE 5===
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
where the chair failed to specifically state that meeting in open session may have had a 
detrimental effect on the Committee’s negotiating position. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Ronald Alexander
Natick School Committee
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
5
