===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
        
February 6, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 22 
 
 
George A. Hall Jr., Esq. 
Anderson & Kreiger LLP 
50 Milk Street 
Boston, MA 02109 
 
By email only: ghall@andersonkreiger.com  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Hall: 
 
This office received a complaint from Brian Iler on July 27, 2023, alleging that the 
Belmont Middle and High School Building Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on 
or about May 8, 2023, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, by letter 
dated May 18, 2023.  The complaint alleges that the Committee posted an insufficiently specific 
notice with respect to an executive session topic and failed to conduct certain procedural 
requirements prior to convening in executive session during a meeting held on April 28, 2023.  
 
Following our review, we find a de minimis violation of the Open Meeting Law where an 
individual other than the Committee’s Chair announced the purpose for the executive session.   
We find that the Committee did not violate the law in the other ways alleged.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, 
the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the notice and open and 
executive session minutes of the Committee meeting held on April 28, 2023.  In addition, we 
communicated with you on January 23, 2024.
1  
 
 
 
 
1 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On Tuesday, April 25, 2023, the Committee posted notice 
for a meeting to be held on Friday, April 28, 2023, at 8:00 A.M. via Zoom.  The notice included 
ten topics, one of which was an executive session “to discuss strategy with respect to possible 
litigation which, if discussed in open meeting, would have a detrimental effect on our possible 
litigation position and that litigation is likely.”   
 
The April 28, 2023, meeting was held as planned and the Committee convened in open 
session.  Chair Bill Lovallo “reviewed the agenda” and noted that the Committee may convene in 
executive session and “if this happens, the Committee will not return to Open Session.”  After 
discussing the open session topics and receiving public comment, Committee member Robert 
McLaughlin moved to enter into executive session “to discuss strategy with respect to possible 
litigation, which, if discussed in open meeting, would have a detrimental effect on the possible 
litigation position and that litigation is likely.”  Chair Lovallo announced that the Committee 
would not reconvene in open session after the conclusion of the executive session and the 
Committee approved a unanimous vote by roll call to convene in executive session. 
 
The minutes of the executive session are sparse and do not include a detailed account of 
the discussions by the Committee during the executive discussion.  Even so, because the 
Committee has not publicly released the minutes of this executive session, we do not recount 
their content in detail here.  However, according to Attorney Hall, during the executive session, 
the Committee discussed strategy with respect to pursuing litigation against certain individuals 
involved with the construction of the new Middle and High School. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-
(b), 21.  A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that 
a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each 
member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly 
announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.
2   
 
The chair of the public body must announce in open session the purpose for the executive 
ses
sion, “stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called.”  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b)(3); see also District Attorney 
for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of 
the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only notification 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the 
public
 would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”).  This level of detail 
about the executive session topic must also be included in the meeting notice.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b); OML 2016-72.  
 
One permissible reason to convene in executive session is “to discuss strategy with 
resp
ect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).  This purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with 
respect to litigation that is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise 
demonstrably likely; the mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3.  See 
Doherty v. School Committee of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Perryman v. School 
Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-05.  When convening in 
executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body should identify the litigation matter to be 
discussed, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy.  See OML 2016-12; 
OML 2013-97.  While we generally defer to a public body’s assessment of whether the inclusion 
of such information would compromise the purpose for the executive session, a public body must 
be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for such a claim if challenged.  See OML 2015-14. 
 
The complaint alleges that the executive session topic listed on the April 28, 2023, notice 
lack
ed sufficient specificity where it did not include the specific litigation matter that the 
Committee would be discussing.  Here, the notice stated that the Committee would discuss 
strategy with respect to “possible litigation.”  The Committee explains that “the purpose of the 
executive session was to discuss strategy with respect to litigation that the Town might initiate in 
connection with the Middle and High School Building project” and that “the discussion of such 
possible claims, including any further description of their possible grounds, or the parties against 
whom such claims might be made, in an open meeting would have a detrimental effect on the 
Town’s litigating position.”  Based on our in camera review of the executive session minutes and 
communication with Attorney Hall, we find that the Committee properly met in executive 
session and that it was also reasonable to conclude that announcing the specific litigation matter 
prior to convening in executive session would have comprised the purpose for the executive 
session and alerted the potential litigants.  See OML 2020-71; OML 2017-178; OML 2017-87.  
As such, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
The complaint also alle
 ges that a Committee member other than the chair made the 
statement of the purpose for the executive session held on April 28, 2023, as well as the 
statement that holding a discussion in open session may have a detrimental effect on the 
Committee’s litigating position.  The Open Meeting Law specifically provides that the chair 
must state the purposes for executive session.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3) (“before the executive 
session, the chair shall state the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be 
revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called[.]”).  
Moreover, the Law requires that, when a public body convenes in executive session pursuant to 
Purpose 3, the chair must declare that an open meeting will have a detrimental effect on the 
litigating position of the public body.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3).  The Committee 
acknowledges, and we find, that Committee member McLaughlin rather than Chair Lovallo 
made both statements prior to convening in executive session.  Accordingly, we are constrained 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
to find a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML  2016-75.  We note, however, that it 
would have been permissible for the chair to explicitly delegate the responsibility for making the 
required statements to another individual.  See OML 2016-124 (it is not a violation where the 
chair specifically asked legal counsel to make the statement on his behalf).  Where, as here, the 
statements were made in open session, but by a Committee member other than the chair, the 
violation is de minimis.  See OML 2020-21; OML 2019-134.  
 
Finally, we note that the Committee’s April 28, 2023, executive session minutes do not 
appear
 to be sufficiently detailed.  The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create 
and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the 
date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each 
subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the 
actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See 
OML 2016-105.  Based on our in camera review of the minutes of the Committee’s April 28, 
2023, executive session, we note that the minutes appear inadequate to meet the standard 
required by the Open Meeting Law because they do not offer a sufficiently detailed summary of 
the Committee’s forty-five minute discussions.
3  We recommend that the Committee amend 
these executive session meeting minutes in accordance with the requirements of G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(a).   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law  
where a Committee member other than the chair stated the purpose for the executive session and 
that meeting in open session may have had a detrimental effect on the Committee’s litigating 
position but find that such violation was de minimus.  We order immediate and future 
compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
  
 
3 A public body may not choose to create insufficient meeting minutes as a means of withholding information that it 
believes might be exempt from disclosure.  See OML 2022-233; OML 2022-189.  Instead, a public body may redact 
executive session minutes before releasing them publicly in accordance with one or more exemptions under the 
Public Records Law.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Brian Iler – By email only:  
Belmont Middle and High School Building Committee – By email only: BHS-
BC@belmont-ma.gov  
Belmont Town Clerk Ellen O’Brien Cushman – By email only: ecushman@belmont-
ma.gov  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
