===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA MEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 29, 2017 
OML 2017-106 
Nancy Glowa, Esq. 
City Solicitor 
City of Cambridge 
795 Massachusetts Avenue, 3rd Floor 
Cambridge, MA 02139 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Glowa: 
This office received a complaint from John Hawkinson, dated March 13, 2017, 
alleging that the Cambridge City Council (the "Council") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Council on 
January 11, 2017 and City Clerk Donna Lopez responded, on behalf of the Council, by 
letter dated January 31, 2017. The complaint alleges that the Council improperly 
redacted certain August and October 2016 executive session minutes and that those 
minutes failed to include a summary of the discussions. 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint, the Council's response 
to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We 
also reviewed the open and redacted executive session minutes from Council meetings 
held on August 1, October 13, and October 31. Finally, we spoke with you and Assistant 
City Solicitor Arthur Goldberg by telephone on June 14, 2017.2 
We find the facts as follows. The Council held a meeting on August 1, during 
which Mayor E. Denise Simmons moved to enter into executive session to discuss the 
purchase of two parcels of real property from the B&M Corporation for the purpose of 
creating a multi-use path and greenway. The Council approved a unanimous vote by roll 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
call to convene in executive session and the Chair announced that the Council would 
reconvene in open session following the executive session. During the executive session, 
City Solicitor Nancy Glowa advised the Council on specific legal issues pertaining to the 
acquisition of land. 
The Council held a meeting on October 13, during which Mayor Simmons moved 
to enter into executive session to discuss contract negotiations and/or negotiation strategy 
pertaining to the prospective City Manager. The Council approved a unanimous vote by 
roll call to convene in executive session and announced that it would not reconvene in 
open session following the executive session. During the executive session, the Council 
discussed the salary, contract length and annual raises for the prospective City Manager. 
The Council then decided by a unanimous roll call vote to offer a four-year contract with 
a salary range of $275,000 - $289,500, and further approved a motion to offer a 2.5% 
annual increase over the length of the contract. 
The Council then held a meeting on October 31, during which Vice Mayor Marc 
C. McGovem moved to enter into executive session to discuss ongoing contract 
negotiations with respect to the prospective City Manager. The Council approved a 
unanimous vote by roll call to convene in executive session and announced that it would 
not reconvene in open session following the executive session. During the executive 
session, the Council decided by a unanimous roll call vote to offer the prospective City 
Manager a fifty-month contract with a salary of $292,500 and 2.5% annual increases. 
On December 19, Mayor Simmons reviewed executive session minutes from 
Council meetings held on August 1, September 19, October 13, and October 31. She 
determined that the minutes from the meetings held on August 1, October 13, and 
October 31 no longer warranted continued non-disclosure and could be released. The 
Council then released redacted copies of the minutes, asserting the attorney-client 
privilege for the redactions. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and 
place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list 
of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions 
taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Executive 
session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public "as long as publication 
may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer." G.L. c. 3 OA, § 
22(f). When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and 
any documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client 
privilege or an exemption to the public records law applies to withhold them, in whole or 
in part, from disclosure. See id. Public bodies have an obligation to review the minutes 
of executive sessions at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of 
minutes is warranted, and to announce that determination at the next meeting following 
its review. G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(g)(1). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The complainant challenges the Council's assertion that the executive session 
minutes are protected by the attorney-client privilege and argues that the Council failed to 
provide a summary of the discussions that were redacted. Although meeting minutes 
must include "a summary of the discussions on each subject," there is no requirement that 
the minutes include a summary of the discussions that were redacted. See G.L. c. 3 OA, § 
22(a). Here, the Council released executive session minutes from meetings held on 
August 1, October 13, and October 31 subject to redaction pursuant to the attorney-client 
privilege. The minutes detail the roll call votes to enter into executive session, the 
specific purposes for the executive sessions, and announcements regarding whether the 
Council would reconvene in open session at the conclusion of the executive sessions. 
Moreover, the meeting minutes from October 13 and October 31 include the discussions 
among and motions by Council members pertaining to the salary for the prospective City 
Manager. 
A public body may cite the attorney-client privilege as a reason for continuing to 
withhold executive session minutes, or portions thereof, even where the executive session 
purpose may have expired. See G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(f). The Open Meeting Law authorizes 
the Attorney General to investigate a complaint alleging a violation of the law and to 
request documents in the course of that investigation, but does not give us the authority to 
determine whether the Council's assertion of the attorney-client privilege was justified. 
See OML 2016-129; OML 2014-22; OML 2013-7.3 Because the executive session 
minutes are no longer being withheld from the public under the Open Meeting Law, we 
find no violation of that law and we have no reason to challenge the Board's claim of 
attorney-client privilege. We note that the complainant may file an Open Meeting Law 
complaint in Superior Court to seek a judicial order that the minutes at issue be revealed 
in their entirety. See 30A, § 23(f); OML 2016-57; OML 2012-41. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending 
with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if 
you have any questions. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website; 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
cc: John Hawkinson 
Cambridge City Council 
Donna P. Lopez, City Clerk 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt 
of a final order. 
4 