===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 14, 2013 
OML 2013-117 
Jeffrey Bernstein, Esq. 
BCK Law P.C. 
One Gateway Center, Suite 809 
Newton, MA 02458 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Bernstein: 
This office received an Open Meeting Law complaint from Mr. Eric Bibler on June 4, 
2012, alleging that the Governing Board of the Cape Light Compact ("CLC") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint specifically alleges that the CLC failed to 
adequately post meeting notices, and that its Executive Committee and other committees failed 
to create and approve meeting minutes or post minutes to its website. The complaint was filed 
with the Board on or about April 27, 2012. The CLC responded by letter dated May 18, 2012. 
Following our review, we find that the CLC operated under a reasonable but incorrect 
interpretation of the Open Meeting Law. Because this is a close question of law, and our office 
has not previously offered guidance on this issue, we do not find a violation of the Open Meeting 
Law. We find the complainant's other allegations are either untimely, or did not constitute 
violations of the Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the April 27, 2012 complaint 
filed with the CLC; the CLC's May 18, 2012 response; and the June 4, 2012 complaint filed with 
our office. We also reviewed a January 18, 2012 letter from CLC Chair William Doherty to the 
Barnstable County Assembly of Delegates. Finally, we reviewed the minutes of the CLC 
Executive Committee's April 12, 2011 meeting. 
The Cape Light Compact was formed in 1997 through an inter-govemmental agreement, 
pursuant to G.L. c. 164, §134; G.L. c. 25A, § 6; and G.L. c. 40, § 4A. The CLC Governing 
Board is a 23-member body, consisting of representatives of Barnstable County, Dukes County, 
and each of the 21 municipalities located within these counties on Cape Cod and Martha's 
Vineyard. The CLC Governing Board is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. The 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
CLC has entered into an administrative agreement with Barnstable County so that Barnstable 
County can perform certain administrative and fiscal functions for the CLC. 
On January 30, 2013, the CLC notified the Attorney General by email that it had adopted 
an alternative notice posting location, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.03, designating its 
website, www.capelightcompact.org, as its official notice posting location. Prior to that date, 
notices were posted in the Barnstable County Superior Courthouse on the public notice bulletin 
board. Lhe CLC minutes and agendas from 2008 through May 2013 are available at 
www.capelightcompact.org/about/agendas-minutes/. There are no committee minutes posted to 
the website, though several Executive Committee meeting agendas are posted. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. The Law requires that public bodies post notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting, 
and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). For meetings of a regional or district public body, notice shall 
be filed and posted in each city or town within the region or district in the manner prescribed for 
local public bodies. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c). For meetings of a county public body, notice shall be 
filed in the office of the county commissioners and a copy of the notice shall be publicly posted 
in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in such place or places as the county 
commissioners shall designate for the purpose. Id. As an alternative method of notice posting, a 
regional or county public body may post a meeting notice on the regional or county public 
body's website. 940 CMR 29.03(3)(b); 940 CMR 29.03(5)(b). 
In his June 4, 2012 complaint filed with our office, Mr. Bibler asserts that the CLC "does 
not always post such notices for the meetings of its governing board to its website on a timely 
basis, and in fact, denies any responsibility for doing so." (emphasis in original). Mr. Bibler did 
not allege in his original complaint that the CLC failed to post notice for any specific meeting. 
In his June 4, 2012 complaint filed with our office, Mr. Bibler explains that the purpose of his 
complaint is to challenge the CLC's assertion that "posting notice on a bulletin board outside of 
the Barnstable County Superior Courthouse constitutes a sufficient notice for all of its public 
meetings, notwithstanding the fact that the membership of CLC is spread across 19 towns and 
counties and that CLC is a regional entity whose notice requirements are not satisfied by such a 
rudimentary posting." (emphasis in original). 
Although the CLC is administered by Barnstable County, it services a broader region. 
The CLC serves Barnstable County, Dukes County, and all of the 21 municipalities located 
within these counties on Cape Cod and Martha's Vineyard. Therefore, we find that the CLC is a 
regional public body, and that its notice posting requirements are governed by G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(c). As such, the CLC and its committees must post their notices in each city and town within 
the region or district in the manner prescribed for local public bodies in that city or town. G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(c); 940 CMR 29.03(3)(a). However, the CLC may choose an alternative notice 
posting method and, in the time since this complaint was filed, has done so. See 940 CMR 
29.03(3)(b); 940 CMR 29.03(5)(b). On January 30, 2013, the CLC officially notified the 
Attorney General by email that it had adopted an alternative notice posting location in 
2 
===PAGE 3===
accordance with 940 CMR 29.03, designating its website, www.capelightcompact.org, as its 
official notice posting location. The CLC's current notice posting method complies with the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General's Regulations. However, prior 
to January 30, 2013, the CLC's notice posting method complied only with the requirements for 
county public bodies and not for regional public bodies. This is a close question of law, and the 
CLC's interpretation was reasonable. Because this is the first time the Division of Open 
Government has offered guidance on the distinction between county and regional public bodies, 
we find that the CLC did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
Mr. Bibler also alleges that the Executive Committee, and possibly other subcommittees 
of the CLC, failed to create meeting minutes prior to April 12, 2011. The basis for this 
allegation is a statement by CLC Chair William Doherty in a Janaury 18, 20121 letter to the 
Barnstable County Assembly of Delegates. In the letter. Chair Doherty writes that "[i]n calendar 
year 2011, the CLC Executive Committee met on April 12, 2011; attached are the minutes of that 
meeting. The CLC Executive Committee did not have a minute-keeping protocol prior to 2011. 
Informal meeting notes taken by committee members exist for every Executive Committee 
meeting prior to 2011, but these have not been reviewed or approved by the Executive 
Committee." This alleged violation was reasonably discoverable at the time Mr. Doherty's letter 
was sent as it is a public document. Because Mr. Bibler's complaint was filed more than 30 days 
after that date, we find the allegation untimely and decline to investigate it. However, Chairman 
Doherty's comments about the Executive Committee's minutes prior to April 12, 2011 cause us 
concern. If it has not done so already, we strongly recommend that the Committee conduct a 
review of the minutes of all Executive Committee meetings that occurred between July 1, 2010 
and April 12, 2011 and, if minutes for any meeting held during that period do not exist, create to 
the best of its ability and approve minutes of those meetings. 
As a final matter, we note that throughout his eight page complaint, Mr. Bibler alleges 
that the CLC and its Executive Committee have refused to post meeting minutes to their website. 
The Open Meeting Law does not require that public bodies post their meeting minutes to a 
website, though it does require that they make minutes available within certain time periods 
following a request. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 22(c), 22(g)(2).3 Accordingly, the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law by not posting certain meeting minutes to its website. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the CLC operated under a reasonable but incorrect interpretation of the 
Open Meeting Law. However, because this is a close question of law, and our office has not 
previously offered guidance on this issue, we do not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
1 In his complaint, Mr. Bibler identifies the letter as a February 18, 2012 letter. We believe that Mr, Bibler intended 
to refer to the January 18, 2012 letter. 
2 The complaint further alleges that the CLC has charged Mr. Bibler an unreasonable amount to provide certain 
documents, including minutes. We decline to review this allegation, as the Supervisor of Public Records within the 
Secretary of the Commonwealth's Office reviews the amount a public body may charge for documents, including 
minutes. See 950 CMR 32.02, 32.06. However, we encourage public bodies to provide meeting minutes to the 
public at little or no charge. 
3 The remaining requests outlined in Mr. Bibler's April 27, 2012 complaint are not governed by the Open Meeting 
Law, therefore we do not address them in this letter. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Furthermore, we note that the Board took appropriate action following the complaint by adopting 
its website as an alternative notice posting location. Additionally, we find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law by not posting certain meeting minutes to its website. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during this investigation, and 
now consider this matter closed. This letter does not resolve any other complaints that may be 
pending with our office or the CLC. Please contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely 
5nathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Cape Light Compact 
Eric Bibler, Save Our Seashore 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 