===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY' GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
August 28, 2012 
OML 2012 — 85 
John McAuliffe 
Town Administrator 
350 Main St. 
Webster, MA 01570 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. McAuliffe: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Nicholas Shelburne (the "complainant") dated 
September 16, 2010, alleging that the Webster Fire Department Board of Engineers (the 
"Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally 
filed with the Board on or about August 13, 2010, and the Board responded to the original 
complaint by letter dated August 26, 2010. The complainant alleges that the Board "fail[ed] to 
timely post that they were going to meet in executive session" during its July 16, 2010 meeting, 
and that "the impromptu executive session . . . deprived [him] due process of law." 
In making our determination, we reviewed the minutes of the Board's July 26, 2010 
meeting; the August 13, 2010 complaint; the August 13, 2010 letter from complainant's counsel 
to the Town Clerk of Webster; the August 26, 2010 response from the Webster Town 
Administrator to our office; the September 16, 2010 complaint; and the September 17, 2010 
letter to our office from complainant's counsel. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. The Board 
held a meeting on July 26, 2010. During the meeting, Assistant Chief Brian Hickey, a member 
of the Board, though not the chair, raised a July 25, 2010 incident regarding the complainant and 
Captain Paul BrinIdey. Captain Brinkley was not in attendance at the meeting, so the Board 
paged him and asked him to give a statement concerning the incident. After Captain Brinkley 
arrived and provided an in-person statement to the Board, the members voted to remove the 
complainant from the Fire Department. The Board conducted the entire meeting in open session. 
0 
===PAGE 2===
athan SCIarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law provides that public bodies may meet in executive session for 
any of ten purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One purpose is "to discuss the discipline or dismissal 
of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer" ("Purpose 1"). G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(1). If a public body enters into executive session under Purpose 1, the body must notify 
the individual in writing at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session and afford the 
person certain rights. Id. While a public body may choose to discuss complaints or charges 
brought against a public officer behind closed doors, there is no requirement that such a 
discussion occur in executive session, and the subject of the discussion has no right under the 
Open Meeting Law to demand that they do so. $ee OML 2012-32. 1  If a public body chooses to 
hold such a discussion in open session, there is no requirement that the individual who is the 
subject of the discussion be given notice. Id. Therefore, the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by not giving the complainant notice that it intended to discuss this matter in open 
session. While there is no legal requirement that the subject of the discussion be given notice in 
such circumstances, in the interest of transparency, we encourage public bodies to do so 
whenever possible. 
Additionally, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to include 
discussion of the complainant as a topic in the notice for its July 26, 2010 meeting. The Law 
states that the "public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such 
meeting," and that the notice should include "a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G. L. c. 30A, § 20(b). During the July 26, 2010 
meeting, a Board member raised an incident involving the complainant that occurred the 
previous day. Because the incident occurred within 48 hours of the meeting, the Board did not 
need to include the topic in the meeting notice. If a meeting topic is proposed after the meeting 
notice is posted, public bodies are encouraged to update their posting to provide the public with 
as much notice as possible of what subjects will be discussed during a meeting. See OML 2012- 
19. Although a public body may consider an unanticipated topic that was not listed in the 
meeting notice, the Attorney General strongly encourages public bodies to postpone discussion 
and action on topics that are controversial or may be of particular interest to the public. Id. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we fmd that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. Please 
feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this letter to be 
inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
1  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
2 
===PAGE 3===
cc: 	 Nicholas Shelburne 
Attorney Nicholas J. Cardellicchio 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3 