===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
April 17,2019 
OML 2019-36
Robert W. Galvin, Esq.
Galvin & Galvin, PC 
10 Enterprise Street, Suite 3 
Duxbury, MA 02332-3315
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Galvin,
This office received a complaint from Joseph Pecevich on December 31, alleging that 
the Marshfield Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on 
October 25, and the Commission responded in a letter dated November 26. In his complaint, 
Mr. Pecevich alleges that the Commission’s October 2 meeting notice was insufficient 
because it did not indicate that it would vote on a particular topic because it was listed in the 
“business” section where votes are not typically cast.
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Commission’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. 
We also reviewed the notice and minutes from the Commission’s October 2 meeting.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. On October 2, the Commission held a meeting, in part, to 
review and discuss a Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) with the property owner at 20 
Wilson Road relating to outstanding issues from a prior order of conditions that the 
Commission had issued. This topic was listed on the notice as “Approved memorandum of 
understanding/20 Wilson - Matt Watsky, Bob Galvin & Bill Grafton.” Town counsel and the 
property owner stated that the MOU would resolve an outstanding issue regarding impacts on
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.

===PAGE 2===
wetlands at the property. Following a discussion of those issues and the MOU, the 
Commission voted to approve it.2
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). To that end, a public body must post notice of 
every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal 
holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” Id. The listing of topics shall have 
sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2018-7; OML 2015-35.3 Where a public 
body’s discussion naturally flows from its consideration of the posted agenda topic, the notice 
was sufficient to inform the public of the discussion that occurred. See OML 2018-14; OML 
2014-44; OML 2014-38.
The complainant alleges that the topic “Approved memorandum of understanding/20 
Wilson - Matt Watsky, Bob Galvin & Bill Grafton,” listed under the “Business” heading on 
the Commission’s October 2 meeting notice, was insufficient because votes are not usually 
taken on items listed under the “Business” heading. Although it is good practice for a notice 
to specify that a vote will be taken when a vote is indeed anticipated in advance, the Open 
Meeting Law does not require this. See OML 2015-66. It is reasonably foreseeable that a 
public body may take action and hold a vote following discussion of a topic listed on a 
meeting notice; the Open Meeting Law does not require that the notice separately indicate the 
possibility of a vote. See OML 2015-66; OML 2012-75. Here, the topic as listed contained 
sufficient information to enable a reasonable member of the public to anticipate the nature of 
the public body’s discussion because the listing included the names of the parties involved, 
the address, and the topic to be discussed. The Commission’s actions naturally flowed from 
its discussion on the topic. See OML 2012-32; OML 2013-152. Accordingly, the 
Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law.4
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or
2 At one point during the meeting, the complainant stated to the Commission that it could not vote on the issue at 
this particular meeting because the meeting notice did not indicate that a vote would be taken.
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
4 We note that the Open Meeting Law does not govern the requirements for conducting hearings. We therefore 
offer no opinion on whether the posting at issue complies with other laws, including whether abutters should 
have received notice of the meeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
the Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions.
Sincerely,
Hanne Rush
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Joseph  Pecevich
Marshfield Conservation Commission
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A,
§ 23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of
receipt of a final order.
3
