===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
September 24, 2018
OML 2018- 128
Adam Costa, Esq.
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
30 Green Street 
Newburyport, MA 01950
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Costa:
This office received a complaint from Troy Daniels, dated April 23, alleging that the 
Lunenburg Sewer Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on March 13, and the 
Commission responded by letter dated March 28. In his complaint, Mr. Daniels alleges that two 
Commission members improperly deliberated on Commission business outside of a noticed 
meeting.2
Following our review, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Commission’s response, and the request 
for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the minutes of a Commission meeting 
held on January 30.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Commission is a five-member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum. During a January 30 Commission meeting, Commission member 
Carl Luck stated that research should be undertaken regarding the addition of a particular street 
to a sewer service area. Mr. Luck made a motion “to look at the Tilton Ave. area to see if [it] 
qualifies as a needs area.” The Commission did not take a formal vote on this motion, although 
the Commission generally decided that Mr. Luck should look into this topic. No other
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 To the extent that the complaint alleges that Mr. Luck and Mr. Anderson were obligated to consult with the 
Commission before reaching out to the engineering firm, we note that this allegation, even if true, would not 
constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law and we therefore decline to review it. See OML Declination 1-25- 
16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the 
Attorney General’s website: www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.

===PAGE 2===
Commission member was assigned to assist Mr. Luck. After the January 30 meeting, Mr. Luck 
and Commission chair Joseph Anderson discussed the issue of the sewer service area and 
corresponded with an engineering firm regarding the project.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30 A,
§§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body 
with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines 
“deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction.” Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority 
of the members of a public body. Id. A “subcommittee” is defined as a multiple-member body 
created to advise or make recommendations to a public body. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Whether a 
subcommittee was created hinges on the public body’s action and whether it intended to create a 
multiple-member body, or whether it intended to assign the task to one person, even if another 
member of the public body subsequently volunteered to assist. See OML 2017-111.
Here, the complaint alleges that Mr. Luck and Mr. Anderson violated the Open Meeting 
Law by discussing the project at issue outside of a noticed meeting, including making the 
decision to contact the engineering firm. The complaint does not allege that the Commission 
designated the two men as a subcommittee, and, indeed, it appears from the meeting minutes that 
no such designation was made during the January 30 meeting. Because Mr. Luck and Mr. 
Anderson did not constitute a subcommittee subject to the Open Meeting Law, and because the 
discussion at issue did not occur between or among a quorum of a public body, it did not 
constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2012-80.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions.
Sincerely,
Kevin w. ivianganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Troy Daniels
Lunenburg Sewer Commission
2

===PAGE 3===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3
