===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
April 17, 2013 
OML 2013 — 47 
David Doneski, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
Dear Attorney Doneski: 
This office received a complaint from Eileen Mooney, Editor at THE NEWSletter, dated 
December 20, 2012, alleging that the Great Barrington Board of Selectmen (the "Board") 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with 
the Board on or about November 19, 2012, and the Board responded to the original complaint by 
letter dated December 10, 2012. In her complaint, Ms. Mooney alleges that during its September 
10, 2012 meeting, the Board discussed a topic in executive session that was improper given the 
stated purpose for the session, and that the meeting minutes are insufficient. 
We reviewed the November 19, 2012 complaint; your December 10, 2012 response on 
behalf of the Board; and the December 20, 2012 complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We reviewed the meeting notice and open and executive session minutes t  from 
the September 10, 2012 meeting. Finally, we spoke by telephone with Vice-Chair Deborah 
Phillips. 
Following our review, we fmd that while the Board's discussion generally fit within the 
parameters of executive session Purpose 2, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to follow required procedures for entering into executive session and by failing to include 
sufficient detail in its executive session minutes. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. The Town 
Manager's contract was set to expire on April 25, 2013. The contract required the Board to give 
written notice to the Town Manager six months prior to the end of the contract term if it declined 
to renew his contract. On September 10, 2012, the Board convened an executive session at 6:00 
P.M. The meeting notice, filed with the clerk on September 6, 2012, listed among the discussion 
1  These minutes have been released in their entirety to the public. 
it 
===PAGE 2===
items the following topics: "6:00 PM- Closed Session- Town Manager's Conference Room- To 
Conduct Strategy Session in Preparation for Negotiations with Non-Union Personnel- Town 
Manager's Contract (MGL. c. C30A, sec. 21); Immediately Following Closed Session- Public 
Session- Board Room." The Board did not convene in open session prior to convening in 
executive session. The Board did not approve the session by roll call vote, nor did the Chair 
publicly announce the purpose for the executive session or whether the Board would reconvene 
in open session following the closed session. According to the executive session meeting 
minutes, the discussion began with a recommendation "to not renew the Town Manager's 
contract." While it's not reflected in the minutes, Vice-Chair Phillips, who drafted the minutes, 
made the recommendation. The Board then discussed the rationale for this recommendation, 
including the Board's concerns about the Town Manager's behavior, including his "lack of 
acknowledgment of mistakes," and discussed the length of a potential contract renewal before a 
majority of the Board indicated unwillingness to renew the contract and lack of support for a 
three-year extension. According to Vice-Chair Phillips, when nonrenewal was proposed, a lone 
Board member expressed dissent, thus she inferred that a majority had reached consensus. The 
dissenting member's opinion was not noted in the meeting minutes. 
The minutes further state that the Board needed "to be clear about the following: Main 
Street Project, TM Search, MMA." The minutes do not reflect the substance of the discussion on 
any of these topics. At the time, the Town had plans for a major construction project on Main 
Street to begin in April 2013, and the Board was concerned about whether it was an appropriate 
time to have a new Town Manager step in and handle the project. The Board also discussed 
contacting Town Counsel and the Massachusetts Municipal Association ("MMA") for assistance 
on how to proceed with a nonrenewal decision. The Board decided to inform the Town Manager 
about its inclination, so he'd have an opportunity to resign before the Board took a vote on 
nonrenewal. The Board then voted by roll call to reconvene in open session. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, provided 
that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for the executive 
session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3). 
The complainant alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to give 
written notice to the Town Manager of the executive sessions, pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). It is clear that the Board intended to meet in executive session pursuant 
to Purpose 2, "No conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion 
personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion 
personnel." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2). Unlike executive session Purpose 1, executive session 
Purpose 2 does not grant an individual the right "to be present at such executive session during 
deliberations which involve that individual." See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(1)(i), 21(a)(2). 
The Board's discussion of the Town Manager's contract renewal generally fit within the 
parameters of executive session Purpose 2, as it related to strategy in preparation for 
renegotiating the contract with the Town Manager. See OML 2012-61. The Board began with a 
2 
===PAGE 3===
discussion of the possibility of a contract renewal, and discussed the Town Manager's behavior 
as a key reason for the nonrenewal recommendation before discussing how to handle the 
proposed decision by reaching out to Town Counsel and the MMA for guidance. The Board's 
discussion about the Town Manager's professional competence was directly related to its 
nonrenewal recommendation, and was therefore appropriate under Purpose 2. See District 
Attorney for Northern Dist. v. School Committee of Wayland,  455 Mass. 561, 568 (Mass. 2009) 
("[w]hile professional competence must first be discussed in an open session, how that 
evaluation will factor into a contract or salary negotiation strategy may be a suitable discussion 
for an executive session"). The discussion about whether it was sensible to hire a new Town 
Manager during the Main Street project was also appropriate as it related to whether and on what 
terms the Board would negotiate a new contract with the current Town Manager. The Board 
briefly touched on the search for a new Town Manager — a subject that should have been 
discussed in open session — however we do not find that there was any substantive discussion of 
the issue, and therefore decline to find a violation. 
Additionally, although not raised by the complainant, we fmd that the Board failed to 
follow the requisite procedural steps for convening an executive session under the Open Meeting 
Law. A public body may enter executive, or closed, session provided that it has first convened in 
an open session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, 
and that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes. G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(b). Before entering the executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the 
executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose 
for which the executive session was called, and the chair must publicly announce whether the 
open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session. Id. According to the 
meeting minutes, the Board never convened in open session prior to convening in executive 
session, and failed to follow each of the requisite procedural steps. 
Further, we find that the minutes of the September 10, 2012 executive session were not 
sufficient for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting Law requires that a public 
body "create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting 
forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on 
each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and 
the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
Minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. 
OML 2013-16; OML 2012-29. As drafted, these minutes do not link any specific individuals to 
the comments and opinions therein, and do not identify the "majority" or how it came to a 
consensus. While it is not necessary to record the comments of every speaker, and we 
acknowledge the difficulty of doing so where there are speakers whose remarks may even 
overlap, if a particular individual speaks at some length or is the only one to offer an argument 
for or against a proposal, that person and his or her comments should be identified in the 
minutes. OML 2012-29. 
Accordingly, we order the Board to draft and approve revised minutes for the September 
10, 2012 executive session that contain a summary of the discussion with sufficient detail and 
accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes 
3 
===PAGE 4===
and have a clear understanding of what occurred. While we do not order the Board to release the 
revised executive session minutes if it would defeat the lawful purpose for the executive session, 
we remind the Board that when the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the 
minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed, unless the attorney-
client privilege or an exemption to the public records law applies. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to follow required procedures for entering into executive session and by failing to include 
sufficient detail in its executive session minutes. We order immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that future similar conduct may be considered evidence 
of intent to violate the Law. We also order the Board to draft and approve the revised executive 
session minutes within thirty (30) days of the date of this letter. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this 
letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Eileen Mooney, THE NEWSletter 
Great Barrington Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
4 