===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 19, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 252 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Alexander M. Castro, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
alex@mtclawyers.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Castro: 
 
This office received a complaint from Town Meeting Representative Lisa Lyons on 
October 9, 2024,
1 alleging that the Stoughton South School Independent Working Group (the 
“Group”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally 
filed with the Group on September 9, and you responded on behalf of the Group by letter dated 
September 18. The complaint alleges that the Group violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
refused to allow the local access television station, Stoughton Media Access Corporation, to 
record the Group’s September 3 meeting. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Group is not a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law and therefore did not violate the Law as alleged. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Group’s response, and the request for further 
review. We also viewed portions of a video recording of the Stoughton Select Board’s 
September 4 meeting, and we communicated with counsel for the Group by email and 
telephone.
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The complaint relates to an effort in Stoughton to build 
a new elementary school. The building project was approved at Stoughton’s May 6 Town 
Meeting; however, in a special election held on June 11, the Town voted against approving a 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
debt exclusion that would fund the project. Thereafter, the Stoughton Elementary School 
Building Committee requested permission from the Massachusetts School Building Authority, 
which had already approved the project, for the Town to revote the issue of funding the project.  
 
At some point the Town Manager, Thomas Calter, formed the Group to receive and vet 
information regarding the school building project with the goal of publishing a report to be 
shared with the public in November. The Group’s membership includes residents of Stoughton 
as well as individuals who are members of Town public bodies, including the Select Board, the 
Elementary School Building Committee, and the School Committee.
3 The Group held several 
meetings from September to November. The meetings were open to the public, but the Group did 
not allow the meetings to be video or audio recorded. The Group’s report was completed on 
November 12. 
 
On December 3, following a November 20 vote by Town Meeting requesting that they do 
so, the Select Board voted to schedule a special town meeting, to be followed by an election, to 
revote the issue of funding the building project.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law applies to public bodies and individuals acting as public body 
members. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Law defines “public body,” in relevant part, as “a 
multiple member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or 
legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, 
appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  
The Supreme Judicial Court recognized an exemption to the Open Meeting Law’s definition of 
“public body” in Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991). In Connelly, 
the Court held that where an individual public official creates a committee to advise that person 
on a decision that the individual has the sole authority to make, that committee is not subject to 
the Open Meeting Law. Connelly, 409 Mass, at 235. 
 
In determining that the Hanover High School principal selection committee was not a 
public body within the meaning of the Open Meeting Law, the Court in Connelly explained that 
the committee “was not created pursuant to any statute or by-law, but was appointed informally 
by the superintendent.” Connelly 409 Mass. at 235. The Court further explained that “[t]his 
factor alone sets the selection committee apart from other entities considered to be 
‘governmental bodies’ under the open meeting law, almost all of which are creatures of statute, 
ordinance, or by-law.” Id.
4 However, the Court explained that that factor alone was not decisive 
and that “[o]f special significance is the fact that the superintendent, because he is clearly not a 
‘governmental body,’ could, by himself, have accomplished the task of screening and 
interviewing candidates in a closed session, entirely free from the requirements of the open 
meeting law.” Id. Finally, in response to the plaintiff’s argument that the definition of 
 
3 The Group does not contain a quorum of any of these public bodies. 
4 Connelly was decided under a previous version of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 39, § 23A, which used the term 
“governmental body” and defined such as “every board, commission, committee or subcommittee of any district, 
city, region or town, however elected, appointed or otherwise constituted.” Chapter 28 of the Acts of 2009 repealed 
the former Open Meeting Law and replaced it with the current version, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
“governmental body” was broad enough to include the selection committee, the Court explained 
that, 
 
While the open meeting law has been applied to committees which are not 
technically committees of a town, these have all been committees of a 
“governmental body.” The statute is broad enough to treat these as “committees of 
a town.” However, the statute does not extend to committees which are not 
appointed by a “governmental body,” and not otherwise constituted pursuant to 
statute, ordinance or by-law, or in some other official way to perform an assignment 
itself subject to the law. 
 
Connelly, 409 Mass. at 237–38 (internal citations omitted). 
 
Based on the facts before us, we find that the Group fits squarely within the exception to 
the definition of “public body” established by the Supreme Judicial Court in Connelly. See, e.g., 
OML 2020-52; OML 2019-71; OML 2018-62; OML 2015-93.5 The Group was created by the 
Town Manager of his own volition to assist him in creating a report regarding the school 
building project. The Group was not created by, or at the direction of, the Select Board or any 
other public body, and the Group was not charged with advising or making recommendations to 
a public body. Therefore, we find that the Group is not a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, and the Open Meeting Law’s provision that “any person may make a video or 
audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a public body” is inapplicable. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(f). Although we acknowledge the Complainant’s sincere concerns regarding 
government transparency and access, the Supreme Judicial Court has made clear that entities 
such as the Group are not subject to the Open Meeting Law. Additionally, we note that, although 
the Group did not allow its meetings to be recorded, it did hold its meetings open to the public. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Group is not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law and therefore could not have violated the Law. We now consider the 
complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address 
any other complaints that may be pending with the Group or with our office. Please feel free to 
contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 
cc: Thomas J. Calter, Town Manager (via email: twnmgr@stoughton-ma.gov) 
Stephen M. Cavey, Chair, Stoughton Select Board  
(via email: scavey@stoughton-ma.gov) 
Stoughton Town Clerk’s Office c/o Susie Gross, Assistant Town Clerk  
(via email: sgross@stoughton-ma.gov) 
Lisa Lyons (via email: ) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
