===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
May 1,2017 
OML 2017-67 
Marielise Kelly, Esq. 
Gargiulo/Rudnick, LLP 
766 Falmouth Road, Unit A-6 
Mashpee, MA 02649 
RE: Open Meeting Law Comnlaint 
Dear Attorney Kelly: 
This office received two complaints from Cynthia Gardner, dated January 31 and 
March 8, alleging that the Cotuit Board of Fire Commissioners (the "Board") violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' Lhe complaints were originally filed with 
the Board on January 17 and February 6, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by 
separate letters dated January 25 and February 23, respectively. In her first complaint, 
Ms. Gardner alleges that the Board's January 17 meeting notice was deficient with 
respect to the anticipated executive session topic. The second complaint alleges that the 
Board failed to review and discuss Ms. Gardner's first complaint and its response in an 
open meeting before forwarding it to legal counsel. 
Following our review here, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law because the Board's January 17 meeting notice provided insufficient detail with 
respect to the executive session topic. However, we find that the discussions in executive 
session fell within a proper statutory purpose. We find that the Board did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law with respect to the second complaint. In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed the original complaints, the Board's responses to the complaints, and the 
complaints filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notice 
of and open and executive session minutes from the Board's January 17 meeting, as well 
as an audio recording of the meeting which you provided to us. Finally, we spoke with 
you by telephone on April 18.2 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On January 11, the Board posted notice for a 
meeting to be held on Tuesday, January 17 at 5:00 P.M. The notice listed the following 
executive session topic: "Draft Budget Planning FY 2018." 
The January 17 meeting was held as planned. During the meeting, the Board 
stated that it would postpone any discussions regarding labor and salaries that are 
affected by the ongoing contract negotiations until executive session. Prior to convening 
in executive session, Ms. Gardner addressed the Board stating that the Board would be in 
violation of the Open Meeting Law if it entered executive session for the purpose stated 
on its January 17 meeting notice. Chair Richard Pisano responded that it was his 
understanding that the area of the budget that directly impacts the ongoing contract 
negotiations was a proper reason for entering executive session. The Board then moved 
to enter into executive session to discuss that part of the budget that pertained to contract 
negotiations but did not identify any collective bargaining units for which it would be 
discussing negotiation strategy. The Board approved a unanimous vote by roll call to 
convene in executive session. The Board announced that it would not reconvene in open 
session following the executive session. 
Ms. Gardner remained in the meeting room after the Board convened in executive 
session. Chair Pisano escorted Ms. Gardner out of the room at her request. While being 
escorted out of the room, Ms. Gardner handed Chair Pisano an Open Meeting Law 
Complaint Form alleging the improper executive session topic on the Board's January 17 
notice. 
Because the Board has not publicly released the minutes of the executive session, 
we do not recount their content in detail here. However, we note that during the 
executive session, the Board reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint and discussed 
wage proposals for the firefighters union. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted 
in an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies 
may enter a closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open 
Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Executive session topics must be described, both in 
the meeting notice and in an announcement during open session, in as much detail as 
possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 21^)0): see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of 
Wavland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening 
in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only notification given the public 
that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public 
would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper"). 
A public body may enter executive session "[t]o conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
2 
===PAGE 3===
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) 
("Purpose 2"). Another purpose for executive session permits a public body "to discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair 
so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). When convening in executive 
session pursuant to Purpose 2 or Purpose 3, a public body must identify the collective 
bargaining unit with whom it will be negotiating, if doing so will not compromise the 
lawful purpose for secrecy. See OML 2013-151; OML 2016-43; OML 2017-53.3 
The first complaint alleges that the executive session topic "Draft Budget 
Planning FY 2018" did not fall within a proper statutory purpose for an executive 
session. The Board acknowledges that the notice "did not correctly describe the subject 
matter of the anticipated executive session as required by the Open Meeting Law." We 
agree that the January 17 meeting notice was not sufficiently detailed because the notice 
failed to indicate that the Board would be discussing contract negotiations with the 
firefighters union in executive session. We find, however, that because discussions in 
executive session pertained to wage proposals for the firefighters union, they fell within a 
proper statutory purpose which was announced by the chair prior to entering the 
executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). Although not raised in the complaint, we 
remind the Board that it must identify the collective bargaining unit with which it is 
negotiating, both in the written notice and verbal statement made before entering 
executive session, if doing so will not compromise the executive session purpose. See 
G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 21(b)(2), (3); OML 2014-133; OML 2013-91. 
The second complaint alleges that the Board failed to review an Open Meeting 
Law complaint prior to forwarding it to the Board's attorney for response. The Open 
Meeting Law requires that, within 14 business days after receiving an Open Meeting Law 
complaint, a public body shall review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if 
appropriate; and send to the Attorney General's Office a copy of the complaint and a 
description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). The 
body must convene a meeting in order to review the complaint before sending a response 
or authorizing its legal counsel to send a response. See OML 2012- 90; OML 2011-6. 
Immediately after receiving the complaint on January 17, the Board reviewed and 
discussed it during that evening's executive session. One executive session purpose 
allows a public body to enter executive session "to discuss the reputation, character, 
physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence of an individual, 
or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a 
public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) ("Purpose 
I").4 A public body may enter into executive session under Purpose 1 to discuss an Open 
Meeting Law complaint, as it represents a complaint against the public body members as 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 When a public body wishes to enter executive session under Purpose 1, it is required to notify in writing 
the individual to be discussed during such an executive session at least 48 hours prior to the executive 
session, although the 48-hour notification "may be waived upon written agreement of the parties." G.L, c. 
30A, § 21(a)(1). 
3 
===PAGE 4===
individual public officials. See OML 2015-105; OML 2013-82. A public body may 
discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not anticipated by the chair 
48 hours in advance of the meeting. See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87. Because the 
Open Meeting Law complaint was handed to Chair Pisano at the January 17 meeting, the 
Board could not have reasonably anticipated its discussion 48 hours prior to the meeting. 
However, we remind the Board that before entering into executive session, the chair must 
state the purpose for the executive session, including all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by posting an insufficiently detailed notice for the Board's January 17 meeting. We 
find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law where it timely reviewed the 
Open Meeting Law complaint in executive session before forwarding it to legal counsel 
for response. We order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the law's 
requirements, and caution the Board that a similar, future violation may be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
KerryAnhe Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Cynthia Gardner 
Cotuit Board of Fire Commissioners 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt 
of a final order. 
4 