===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
September 9, 2019 
OML 2019-113
Brian W. Riley, Esq.
KP Law, P.C.
101 Arch Street, 12th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Riley:
This office received a complaint from Susan Rogers on February 19, 2019, alleging that 
the Wilmington Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A,
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on December 10; and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated January 9, 2019, following an extension of 
time granted by our office. The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board deliberated outside 
of a properly posted meeting by creating a draft decision, and that the Board did not allow public 
participation at its November 13 meeting prior to approving the decision.
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notices and 
open session minutes of the Board’s July 10, August 7, September 11, October 2, and November 
13 meetings, as well as a video recording of the November 13 meeting.2
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. Around the beginning of June, the Board received a 
definitive subdivision and site plan application and stormwater management permit application 
for a 48-bed detoxification facility at 362 Middlesex Avenue, a vacant three-acre lot, in 
Wilmington.
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 The video recording of the November 13 meeting is available at http://wctv.org/video-on-demand/.

===PAGE 2===
Between July 10 and November 13, the Board held four public hearings with respect to 
the project at 362 Middlesex Avenue. Those hearings were held on July 10, August 7, October 
2, and November 13 and the Board duly posted notices for these meetings. Each notice listed the 
362 Middlesex Avenue topic in the same way, as a Public Hearing or Continued Public Hearing 
and then listed “Definitive Subdivision #18-02, Site Plan Review #18-06 - Stormwater 
Management Plan #18-08 for 362 Middlesex Avenue - Map 89 Parcel 6A, Benjamin Osgood for 
Bettering LLC, Applicant.” Each notice also included an action deadline date for the project; the 
dates were the only information that would change on each subsequently posted notice.
During the July 10 meeting, the Board discussed fencing and buffer zones with the 
applicant and then heard from several residents who raised concerns with the size of the 
subdivision, the location of any septic system, and snow removal. The Board unanimously voted 
to continue the public hearing to August 7.
During the August 7 meeting, the Board discussed with the applicant the size of the 
facility and the grading and width of roadway around the property. The Board then heard from a 
consultant with the project who explained the detoxification process, the security and staff that 
will be in place at the facility, and how patients will be released. The Board then heard from 
residents who raised concerns about outdoor smoking and criminal backgrounds of patients. The 
Board unanimously voted to continue the public hearing to September 11 and to “extend the 
deadline for action” until September 28.
During a September 11 meeting, the Board did not discuss the project at 362 Middlesex 
Avenue but simply continued the public hearing until October 2 and voted to “extend the action 
deadline” until October 4.
During the October 2 meeting, the Board discussed lighting around the property, grading 
of roadway and drainage, and the layout of the building. The Board also heard from residents 
who raised concerns about snow removal and fencing around the property. The Board then 
unanimously voted to continue the public hearing to November 13 and to “extend the action 
deadline” until November 30.
On November 7, Assistant Planner Sierra Pelletier emailed draft decisions with respect to 
the definitive subdivision plan, site plan review, and stormwater management permit application 
submitted for 362 Middlesex Avenue to the project applicant, the Director of Planning and 
Conservation, Senior Clerk of Planning and Conservation, and the Town Engineer.
During the November 13 meeting, the applicant advised the Board that he had made 
changes to the site plan to address concerns over drainage and lighting. The Board invited 
residents to ask questions or express concerns. Eight residents spoke and raised concerns about 
traffic safety, future tenants, lighting, and fencing. The Board then closed the public hearing and 
unanimously voted to approve with conditions and waivers a definitive subdivision plan, site 
plan review, and stormwater management permit application for 362 Middlesex Avenue. The 
decisions of the Board were then read into the record.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of
2

===PAGE 3===
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, §18. The law 
defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction.” Id. For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of 
the members of a public body. Id
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board deliberated outside of a properly posted 
meeting “in creating a draft decision & conditions for the Definite Plan Subdivision, Site Plan 
and the Stormwater Plan on 362 Middlesex Avenue.” During the November 13 meeting, the 
Board closed the public hearing on the 362 Middlesex Avenue project and then unanimously 
voted to approve with conditions and waivers a definitive subdivision plan, site plan review, and 
stormwater management permit application for 362 Middlesex Avenue. Because the Board did 
not substantively discuss its decisions during the November 13 meeting but only read the 
decisions into the record, the complaint suggests that “the decision was predetermined prior to 
the start of the meeting.” The Board denies that members discussed the draft decisions prior to 
the November 13 meeting. We note that the November 7 email that included the draft decisions 
was not sent by or to any Board members. Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit 
the public body’s account of the facts. See OML 2015-8; OML 2014-122.3 Moreover, we have 
stated in prior determinations that unanimous agreement among public body members is 
insufficient to support the inference that those members deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. 
See OML 2017-93; OML 2013-128. Accordingly, we find that the Board did not deliberate 
outside of a noticed meeting.
The complaint also alleges that the public was denied the opportunity to speak and ask 
questions about the decisions the Board issued with respect to the 362 Middlesex Avenue project 
during the November 13 meeting.4 The Open Meeting Law states that “[n]o person shall address 
a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of 
the chair, be silent.” G.L. c. 30A § 20(f). The law does not require that a public body allow 
public participation, but rather gives the chair of the public body discretion to decide whether to 
permit public comment during a meeting. See OML 2017-189; OML 2014-23; OML 2012-78.
It is not a violation of the Open Meeting Law for a public body to vote on a topic without first 
taking comments from the public. See OML 2013-64; OML 2012-59; OML 2012-23.
Moreover, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting by limiting public participation during the 
meeting, as it is within the Chair’s discretion to do so. See OML 2017-181. We do, however,
3 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
4 The complaint also alleges that the Board denied and limited citizens’ rights to due process and did not follow the 
procedural requirements of public hearings. The Division of Open Government is charged specifically with 
reviewing complaints to determine compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, thus we decline 
to review, and offer no opinion on, whether any actions taken by the Board could be a violation of any other law or 
regulation pertaining to public hearings. See OML 2014-31; OML Declination 6-25-18 (Rowley Planning 
Commission).
3

===PAGE 4===
encourage public bodies to allow for as much public participation as time and circumstances 
permit. See OML 2015-12; OML 2014-129; OML 2012-59.
In her request for further review, the complainant suggests that the notice for the Board’s 
November 13 meeting was insufficiently detailed as it did not list the decisions as a topic of 
discussion. We generally decline to review an allegation that was not included within the 
original complaint to the Board because the Board has not had an opportunity to respond to it.
See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3). We find that this allegation was not clearly raised 
in the original complaint and thus we do not review its merits. However, we note that the Open 
Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting “at least 48 hours prior to 
such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and that every notice include 
“the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies must list 
topics for discussion with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to 
be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to include 
sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35; OML 
2012-71; OML 2011-44. We remind the Board of its obligations under the law and note that 
where a public body anticipates, 48 hours prior to its meeting, that a decision for approval will be 
before it, the public body should include the decision as a topic on its meeting notice since there 
is the possibility of discussion of the decision. See OML 2018-68. Moreover, there may be a 
context in which a public body has repeatedly discussed a posted topic over the course of several 
meetings without ever taking action on the topic. In such circumstances, the public may not 
reasonably foresee a vote by the public body on the posted topic at any given meeting without 
additional detail. In that context, it may be necessary for a public body to specifically indicate 
on its notice that it plans to take action and vote on a particular topic. See OML 2017-186.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Susan Rogers
Wilmington Planning Board
4

===PAGE 5===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
5
