===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
       April 10, 2024 
 
OML 2024 – 58 
 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Mark R. Reich, Esq. 
KP Law 
mreich@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Reich: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick McPhee on January 31, 2023, alleging that 
the Ashby Public Safety Building Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or 
around December 20, 2022.1  Mike Reggio, Chair of the Committee, responded to the 
complainant by email that same day.  Mr. Reggio further responded to Mr. McPhee by email on 
December 28.  When asked whether Mr. Reggio’s emails constituted the Committee’s response 
to the complaint, Mr. Reggio stated that the emails were “not the public body’s official response” 
and that the complaint would be placed on the agenda for discussion at the Committee’s next 
meeting.  No further response was submitted.
2  The complaint alleges that the Committee posted 
“boiler plate” meeting notices and did not respond to a request for meeting minutes.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint, Mr. Reggio’s responses to Mr. McPhee, 
and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed notices for 
Committee meetings held between September 2022 and March 2023.  Finally, we spoke with 
Mr. McPhee by phone.   
 
 
1 All dates refer to the year 2022, unless specified otherwise. 
2 We remind the Committee that within 14 business days of receiving an Open Meeting Law complaint, the Chair 
must distribute the complaint to all members of the Committee, the Committee must meet to review the complaint, 
and the Committee must then respond to the complainant in writing and provide our office with a copy of the 
complaint and the response.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Meeting Notices 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A foundational requirement of the Open Meeting Law is 
that public bodies post notice of each meeting “at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and that every notice include, among other things, “a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b).  Public bodies must list topics for discussion with “sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  
A notice need not include every detail about an anticipated discussion, but the law requires that 
notice topics include “sufficient specificity” so that the public can decide whether to attend the 
meeting and observe the discussions regarding the specific topics anticipated for discussion.  See 
OML 2023-108; OML 2018-22; OML 2018-7.3   Boilerplate notice topics such as “Old 
Business” and “New Business,” on their own, are vague and do not offer the public an 
understanding of the anticipated topics to be discussed.  See OML 2017-14; OML 2014-140; 
OML 2013-14; OML 2013-107.   
 
The C
ommittee posted notices for seven meetings scheduled to take place between 
September 1 and November 7, all of which were substantially identical and included the 
following listing of topics: 
 
1. CALL TO ORDER 
2. PREVIOUS MEETING MINUTES ACTION 
3. CONTRACTS, INVOICES, CHANGE ORDERS, BUDGET REPORT 
4. PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD 
5. NEXT MEETING, ADJOURNMENT 
 
Beginning with the notice for the Committee’s December 8, meeting, the Committee’s meeting 
notices included additional detail regarding the topics, including the dates of prior meeting 
minutes to be reviewed as well as a detailed list of specific invoices, change orders, and contracts 
to be discussed.   
 
 As a preliminary matter, we note that the Open Meeting Law requires that complaints be 
fi
led with the public body within 30 days of the alleged violation.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 
CMR 29.05(4).  If the alleged violation could not have been known at the time it occurred, then 
the complaint must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the date on which the alleged 
violation could reasonably have been discovered.  940 CMR 29.05(4).  Alleged violations that 
take place during an open session meeting can reasonably be discovered at the time they occur.  
See OML 2012-52.  A complaint about the specificity of a meeting notice, where the entire 
meeting took place in open session, must be filed within 30 days of the corresponding meeting.  
Therefore, we find that the complaint filed on December 20 was untimely with respect to the 
sufficiency of the notices for meetings held prior to November 20.  Although we do not formally 
review the sufficiency of those meeting notices, we note that were we to review them, we would 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
find the notices insufficient.  Beginning with the notice for the Committee’s December 8 meeting 
and continuing for all notices we reviewed—apparently in response to concerns voiced by Mr. 
McPhee—the Committee included additional specificity beneath the main topic headings on its 
meeting notices, as required by the Open Meeting Law.   
 
Response to Request for Minutes 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minut
es of all meetings, including executive sessions.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).   “Minutes of all 
open sessions shall be created and approved in a timely manner.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  “Timely 
manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is 
later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.”  940 CMR 29.11; see OML 
2018-48.  “The minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft form, 
shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 days.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  If 
such minutes do not yet exist at the time of a request, the public body is still required to respond 
to the request within 10 days with an explanation of whether the minutes do or do not exist in 
either approved or draft form.  See OML 2023-82; OML 2018-98; OML 2017-50; OML 2015-
173. 
 
Mr. M
cPhee asserts that on November 26 he requested via email to the Committee 
minutes of Committee meetings held on September 15, October 6, October 18, and November 7.  
As of when the complaint was filed December 20, he had not received a response.  Later on 
December 20, Mr. Reggio responded by explaining that the only September meeting minutes that 
had been approved were for the September 27 meeting; the other September meeting minutes 
were not available; minutes for the October 18 meeting were approved on December 8 and 
available; and minutes for the October 6 and November 7 meeting were not approved due to lack 
of a quorum of members present at those meetings.  The draft, unapproved minutes still were not 
provided to Mr. McPhee.  Because the Committee failed to respond to Mr. McPhee’s request for 
meeting minutes within 10 days, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law.  
We remind the Committee that it must make meeting minutes available upon request within 10 
days, regardless of whether the minutes are approved or in draft form, and if requested minutes 
do not exist at all the Committee still must respond to the requester within 10 days. 
 
Finally, to the extent the complaint can be construed as alleging that the Committee failed 
to timely approve minutes for its September 15, October 6, October 18, and November 7 
meetings, we find that the Committee failed to timely approve minutes for its September 15 and 
October 6 meetings.  The Committee was required to approve minutes for each meeting within 
the later of 30 days or the third meeting thereafter.  At the time the complaint was filed, the 
Committee had not approved minutes for its September 15 and October 6 meetings, despite the 
fact that 30 days and three subsequent meetings had passed.  Therefore, the Committee violated 
the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely approve these meeting minutes.  We do not, however, 
find that the Committee failed to timely approve minutes for the other meetings, as minutes for 
the October 18 meeting were timely approved on December 8, which was the Committee’s 
second meeting thereafter, and the Committee had not yet held three meetings since its 
November 7 meeting.  
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to properly respond to a request for meeting minutes and by failing to timely approve 
meeting minutes.  We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent 
to violate the law.  Because the Committee has since approved the meeting minutes at issue, we 
order no further remedial action. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
  
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick McPhee (via email: ) 
Mike Reggio, Chair, Ashby Public Safety Building Committee (via email: 
) 
 Ashby Town Clerk (via email: tclerk@ashbyma.gov) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
