===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 25, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 115 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Etty Singer, Esq. 
Murphy Hesse Tommey & Lehane LLP 
50 Braintree Hill Office Park 
Suite 410 
Braintree, MA 02184 
esinger@mhtl.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Singer: 
 
This office received a complaint from Dawn Byers on August 6, 2025,
1 alleging that the 
Whitman-Hanson Regional School District School Committee (the “Committee”), and 
specifically Committee member Beth Stafford,2 violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about June 23, and you 
responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated July 14. The complaint alleges that the 
Committee discussed a topic during its June 18 meeting that was not included on the notice of 
the meeting and that a Student Outreach Coordinator was not properly appointed.  
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties as we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Committee and Ms. Stafford did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Committee’s response, and the request for further review. We also reviewed the notice of the 
Committee’s June 18 meeting and a video recording of Committee meetings held on May 7 and 
June 18.
3 Finally, we also communicated with the Committee’s legal counsel via email.  
 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 At the time of the events of the complaint, Beth Stafford served as the chair of the Committee. The current chair of 
the Committee is Ryan Tressel. 
3 A recording of the May 7 meeting was accessed at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lKvIyymF7tI. A recording 
of the June 18 meeting was accessed at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NnKrsESzIQ8.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. During the Committee’s May 7 meeting, after a 
presentation from the Student Council, the Complainant, who was a member of the Committee at 
the time, explained that because she would no longer be serving as a member of the Committee, 
she would no longer be able to serve as the Student Outreach Coordinator, a position that 
supports and advises the Student Council. The Complainant recommended that the Committee 
select a new Student Outreach Coordinator at the Committee’s reorganization meeting and noted 
that the Student Council still had one more meeting in June and might want guidance over the 
summer as well. In response, Assistant Superintendent George Ferro expressed his willingness to 
take on the role for the next year. After another Committee member gave the Student Council 
members their best wishes, the Committee moved on to the next topic.  
 
On June 16, the Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on June 18 at 6:30 p.m. 
Among the topics listed on the meeting notice were: 
 
Subcommittee Assignments as needed: 
1. Operations & Capital Subcommittee 
2. Policy Subcommittee 
3. Negotiations (B, C, D) 
4. Vote to approve North River Collaborative Representative 
5. Vote to approve READS Area Collaborative Representative 
6. Vote to approve Pilgrim Area Collaborative Representative 
 
The notice did not include a topic related to the appointment of a Student Outreach Coordinator.  
 
During the June 18 meeting, while discussing subcommittee assignments, Committee 
member Ryan Tressel asked about the appointment of the Student Outreach Coordinator. 
Committee Chair Beth Stafford responded stating that at a previous meeting “George wanted to 
do it and I said I’d like to do that because I’m not on any of the other subcommittees.”
4 Chair 
Stafford also noted that she wanted to serve as Student Outreach Coordinator because her 
schedule allowed her to come to the school during the day. After this brief discussion, the 
Committee turned to the last assignment, that of Pilgrim Area Collaborative Representative.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We decline to review allegations that, even if true, would not constitute a violation of 
the Open Meeting Law. 
 
We understand the complaint to allege that, with respect to appointment of the Student 
Outreach Coordinator, Chair Stafford: 1) violated G.L. c. 71, § 38M; 2) appointed herself 
without authority to do so; and 3) did not add the topic to a meeting notice despite the 
Complainant’s request that she do so.  
 
4 It is unclear from the video recording whether Chair Stafford was talking about a previous Committee meeting or 
the last Student Council meeting.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, only. In general, the Open Meeting Law does not require that a 
public body discuss any particular matter nor take any particular vote. See OML Declination 10-
2-2025 (Lynn City Council).5 Rather, the Open Meeting Law requires that if a quorum of a 
public body discusses a matter within its jurisdiction it must do so only during a meeting for 
which notice was posted and that is open to the public, unless a permissible reason exists to 
discuss the topic in executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18, 20(a). Furthermore, the Open 
Meeting Law does not require that a public body add requested topics to its meeting notices. See 
OML Declination 4-2-2024 (Massachusetts State Rehabilitation Council); OML 2022-179; OML 
2013-40. Finally, the Open Meeting Law does not address a public body chair’s authority to 
appoint themselves as Student Outreach Coordinator. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25; see also, OML 
Declination 12-414-2023 (Somerset Board of Selectmen & Somerset Tax Increment Finance 
Committee) (declining to review whether the public bodies “committed procedural errors, 
including failure to comply with General Laws Chapter 39, section 23D”); OML Declination 6-
11-2019 (Hubbardston Planning Board) (“If the Chair acted on behalf of the Board without 
authority, such action is not a violation of the Open Meeting Law.”).  
 
The allegations that Chair Stafford violated G.L. c. 71, § 38M, appointed herself Student 
Outreach Coordinator without authority to do so, and did not add appointment of a Student 
Outreach Coordinator to a meeting notice despite the Complainant’s request that she do so, even 
if true, would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law. Therefore, we decline to 
review these allegations. See OML Declination 5-15-2025 (Wilmington Select Board); OML 
Declination 3-20-2025 (Swansea Board of Selectmen); OML Declination 11-3-2023 
(Massachusetts Board of Elementary and Secondary Education). 
 
II. We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it discussed 
the appointment of the Student Outreach Coordinator during its June 18 meeting.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “[e]xcept in an emergency, … a public body shall 
post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, 
Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Meeting notices must include, among other 
things, a list of the topics that the chair, and any other individual authorized to create the notice, 
reasonably anticipates, 48 hours in advance of the meeting, will be discussed. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b); OML 2022-206; OML 2020-152. A public body may discuss a truly unanticipated topic 
even if that topic was not listed on the meeting notice. See e.g., OML 2021-131.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
discussed the appointment of the Student Outreach Coordinator during the June 18 meeting 
without that topic having been included on the notice for the meeting. We find that the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged where discussion of the Student 
Outreach Coordinator was unanticipated. During the meeting a Committee member inquired 
about the appointment of the Student Outreach Coordinator because he did not see that position 
listed with the other subcommittee assignments. Chair Stafford then responded to this inquiry, 
explaining that at some earlier point the Assistant Superintendent had offered to serve in the role 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
and that Chair Stafford had asked to fill the role instead. The Committee has confirmed that
discussion of the Student Outreach Coordinator was unanticipated and the video recording of the
June 18 meeting supports this assertion. To the extent the complaint asserts that the topic must
have been anticipated because it had been raised at a previous meeting and because the
Complainant had requested it be discussed at a meeting, we have explained that although a chair
generally may be aware of a topic, the Open Meeting Law only requires the meeting notice to
contain those topics the chair reasonably anticipates discussing at the particular meeting for
which the notice is posted. See OML 2021-40; OML 2018-159. Absent sufficient evidence to the
contrary, we credit the Committee's account of the facts and find that discussion of appointment
of the Student Outreach Coordinator was not anticipated for the June 18 meeting. See OMI
2022-65; OML 2020-172; OML 2019-73.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open
Meeting Law by discussing appointment of the Student Outreach Coordinator during its June 18
meeting. We decline to review the other allegations raised in the complaint.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaint that may be pending with the Committee or
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions
regarding this letter.
Assisted by Natalie Reyes, Paralegal
Sincerely,
Flag
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Ryan Tressel, Chair, Whitman-Hanson Regional School District School Committee
(via email: ryan.tressel@whrsd.org)
Steven Bois, Clerk/ Secretary, Whitman-Hanson Regional School District School
Committee (via email: steven.bois@whrsd.org)
Beth Stafford, Member, Whitman-Hanson Regional School District School Committee
Dawn Byers
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.