===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
February 14, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 16 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Stasia Powers 
Chair, Fairhaven Select Board 
spowers@fairhaven-ma.gov 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Powers: 
 
This office received a complaint from Robert Espindola1 on May 7, 2024, alleging that 
the Fairhaven Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.2  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about March 11, and former Board 
Chair Leon Correy3 responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated March 
26.  The complaint alleges that the Board discussed matters in executive session on February 26 
that were not appropriate for executive session and discussed a topic in executive session that 
was not listed on the meting notice.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
any of the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, the complainant’s request for further review of 
the complaint, and additional email correspondence between Mr. Espindola and former Chair 
Correy.  We also reviewed, in camera, minutes of the Board’s February 26 executive session. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows.  On February 22, the Board posted notice for a 
meeting to be held on February 26 at 6:30 P.M.  The notice included a list of topics for 
 
1 At times relevant to this complaint, Robert Espindola was a member of the Board.  He is no longer a member of 
the Board. 
2 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2024. 
3 Leon Correy is no longer a member of the Board. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
discussion in open session, and also included an executive session “Pursuant to MGL Chapter 
30A, Section 21(a)(2): To conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with 
nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with 
nonunion personnel - Town Administrator.”  On February 23, the meeting packet for the 
February 26 meeting was distributed to Board members.  The meeting packet included a one-
page document titled “2024 Town Administrator Goals” that included a listing of five main goals 
with additional bullet points beneath each.  The meeting packet also included a copy of the Town 
Administrator’s contract. 
 
The Board convened the meeting on February 26.  After discussing other matters in open 
session, the Board moved into executive session along with its legal counsel and then-Town 
Administrator Angie Lopes Ellison.  The minutes of the executive session have not been released 
to the public; therefore, we do not recount the substance of the executive session in detail.  
However, we note that at the start of the executive session, Ms. Ellison stated that the purpose of 
the discussion would be to discuss language in her contract regarding goal-setting.  The 
complainant, Robert Espindola, expressed concern regarding the propriety of holding such a 
discussion in executive session4 and exited the executive session.  Ms. Ellison then noted 
concerns regarding Mr. Espindola’s behavior toward her.  The Board’s vice-chair explained that 
the purpose of the executive session was to discuss contract negotiation strategy and to engage in 
contract negotiations.  Ms. Ellison left the executive session, Mr. Espindola returned, and the 
Board proceeded to discuss Ms. Ellison’s contract for approximately 30 minutes. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when meeting in executive session, all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A public body may enter an 
executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law 
provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of members of the body 
have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and 
 
4 On February 16, Mr. Espindola wrote to the Division of Open Government asking whether “going into executive 
session for the purpose of discussing the goals and objectives that will be set in place for the Town Administrator for 
the upcoming year (i.e. the basis for how the Town Administrator will be scored at their annual review under their 
existing contract) is a valid reason for a Select Board to enter executive session.”  The Division responded: 
 
Please note that we cannot provide an advisory opinion as to whether a particular discussion is 
appropriate for executive session unless a complaint is filed for full review and 
investigation.  However, we can offer general information or point you to resources. 
 
A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated 
in the Open Meeting Law.  One permissible reason to convene in executive session is “[t]o 
conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct 
collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.” G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”).  We have explained in a few prior determination letters that discussions of 
the process or metrics through which an evaluation will be conducted is not a proper matter for 
executive session.  Please see the attached determinations, and others that are cited within them. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether the open session will 
reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 
2014-94.5   
 
The chair of the public body must announce in open session the purpose for the executive 
session, “stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called.”  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the 
N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the 
reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only notification 
given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the 
public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”).  This level of detail 
about the executive session topic must also be included in the meeting notice.  See OML 2016-
72.   
 
One permissible purpose for convening in executive session is to “conduct strategy 
sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(2) 
(“Purpose 2”).  When meeting in executive session, a public body may only address subjects that 
fit within one of the ten enumerated purposes and that relate to the narrow executive session 
purpose the public body cited when entering executive session.  See District Attorney for the 
Northwestern Dist. v. Board of Selectmen of Sunderland, 11 Mass. App. Ct. 663, 666 (1981).  A 
public body may engage in strategy discussions and also negotiate with nonunion personnel in 
executive session under Purpose 2.  See OML 2023-78; OML 2011-56.  However, a public body 
may not discuss an individual’s professional competence in executive session.  See District 
Attorney for the North District v. School Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 568 (2009) 
(although it is clear that professional competence must first be discussed in an open session, how 
that evaluation will factor into a contract or salary negotiation strategy may be a suitable 
discussion for an executive session); OML 2019-57.   
 
The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing in 
executive session Ms. Ellison’s progress toward the previously negotiated 2024 goals.  After 
reviewing the minutes of the executive session, we are satisfied that the Board did not discuss 
Ms. Ellison’s performance or progress toward 2024 goals, but rather discussed possible courses 
of action in light of the contract’s expiration the following year, including, if a new contract were 
to be negotiated, what goals might be included as terms of the new contract.  These topics were 
appropriate for executive session.  Any mention of progress toward the 2024 goals was brief and 
tangential to the discussion of a future course of action.  Therefore, we find that the Board did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
The complaint also alleges that while in executive session the Board discussed Ms. 
Ellison’s complaint regarding Mr. Espindola when such topic was not included on the meeting 
notice.  Although at the beginning of the executive session Ms. Ellison raised concerns regarding 
Mr. Espindola’s behavior toward her, we find no indication that the Board, and specifically the 
Chair, anticipated such comments; moreover, we find no indication that the Board engaged in 
 
5 Open Meeting Law declination letters and determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
discussion of those concerns.  Instead, the Board redirected the discussion to preparation for 
contract negotiations.  We have previously explained that it is incumbent upon the public body 
and its chair to carefully monitor the subject matter of discussion when in executive session to 
ensure that topics do not stray from the lawful purpose for which the executive session was 
called.  See OML 2024-128; OML 2021-80; OML 2010-6.  When a public body does not 
actually discuss a topic, it cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with regard to the sufficiency of 
the meeting notice.  See OML 2015-111.  Here, we find that any discussion of concerns 
regarding Mr. Espindola was initiated by Ms. Ellison; that the Board redirected the discussion 
and did not engage in follow-up; and, therefore, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
 
       Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Robert Espindola (via email:   ) 
 George Samia, Acting Town Administrator (via email: gsamia@fairhaven-ma.gov) 
Fairhaven Town Clerk (via email: ehoran@fairhaven-ma.gov)  
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
