===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
May 29, 2013 
OML 2013 — 71 
Rosann DiPietro, Esq. 
Long & DiPietro, LLP 
175 Derby Street, Unit 17 
Hingham, MA 02043 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
Dear Attorney DiPietro: 
This office received a complaint from Michael Goodwin, dated November 9, 2012, 
alleging that the Mendon-Upton Regional School Committee (the "Committee") violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on September 11, 2012, and you responded to the complaint on behalf of the 
Committee by letter dated September 25, 2012. In his complaint, Mr. Goodwin alleges that the 
topic, "Statement on School Committee responses to Open Meeting Law violation complaints," 
from the Committee's August 13, 2013 meeting lacked sufficient detail. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed Mr. Goodwin's September 11, 2012 complaint 
filed with the Committee; your September 25, 2012 response on behalf of the Committee; the 
complaint filed with this office on November 9, 2012; and the notice and minutes of the August 
13, 2012 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that, while the notice topic identified by the complainant 
was sufficiently specific, the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include the 
name of an Open Meeting Law complainant in a different item on the same notice. 
FACTS  
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. The 
Committee's August 13, 2012 meeting notice, posted on August 8, 2012, included the following 
anticipated discussion topics: "Statement on School Committee responses to the Open Meeting 
Law violation complaints" and "Response/Ratification re. [sic] OML violation complaint of June 
28, 2012." 
During the August 13, 2012 meeting, Committee Chair Kathleen Drennan read a 
prepared statement in response to twelve Open Meeting Law complaints filed against the 
Committee by three complainants whom the statement described as "a former [Committee] 
member, her spouse and one other resident who appears to be acting in concert with the other 
C) 
===PAGE 2===
complainants."1  The statement explained the Committee's efforts to comply with the 
requirements under the revised Open Meeting Law, defended the actions the Committee had 
previously taken and described the Committee's new process for responding to Open Meeting 
Law complaints. In explaining the Committee's rationale for the new process, the statement said 
that the complainants' "actions have resulted in countless hours of [Committee] time responding 
to their spurious claims, limiting [the Committee's] ability to focus on supporting the district's 
efforts to improve teaching and learning." The statement addressed the twelve complaints 
generally and was not focused on any specific complaint received by the Committee, nor did it 
reference any of the complainants by name. Following the Chair's statement, the Committee 
voted to ratify the new process for handling Open Meeting Law complaints and to approve the 
response that legal counsel had prepared in response to a thirteenth Open Meeting Law 
complaint, filed on June 28, 2012, which was unanimously approved. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice 
with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). Our office generally considers a topic to include sufficient 
specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the 
anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2012-34.2  
In his complaint, Mr. Goodwin alleges that the topic "Statement on School Committee 
responses to Open Meeting Law violation complaints" was not sufficiently detailed because it 
did not include "the three residents' names about whom the remarks were going to be made." 
Although the Chair's statement during the August 13, 2012 meeting made a passing reference to 
the complainants, it did not specifically identify them by name The primary focus of the 
discussion was not on any individual complaints, but instead emphasized the Committee's 
response to the twelve complaints generally and outlined the Committee's process for responding 
to future Open Meeting Law complaints.3  Because the topic listed in the meeting notice gave the 
public notice that this type of general discussion would occur, we find that this topic on the 
Committee's notice was sufficiently specific. 
However, although not specifically alleged in the complaint, we find another topic on this 
meeting notice, "Response/Ratification re. [sic] OML violation complaint of June 28, 2012," was 
not sufficiently specific. Because the Committee was discussing its response to a specific Open 
Meeting Law complaint, the topic should have included the name of the complainant(s). See  
OML 2013-28; OML 2011-11. 
I  The entire statement was incorporated into the meeting's minutes. 
2  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
3  As we discuss in the next paragraph, however, if the Committee had discussed specific Open Meeting Law 
complaints, the Committee would have been required to include the name(s) of individual complainant(s) in the 
meeting notice in order to comply with the Law. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
We find the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to list with a topic with 
sufficient specificity on its August 13, 2012 meeting notice. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you any questions 
regarding this determination. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Michael Goodwin 
Mendon-Upton Regional School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3 