===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 3, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 168 
 
 
VIA EMAIL  
 
Sophie Dorow 
Conservation and Planning Agent 
sdorow@gardner-ma.gov 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Ms. Dorow: 
This office received a complaint from Paul DeMeo on June 5, 2023, alleging that the 
Gardner Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on or about April 
25, and you responded on behalf of the Commission on April 26.1,2  The complaint alleges 
that the Commission held meetings on March 27 and April 24 at which one member of the 
Commission participated remotely without providing an option for the public to attend the 
meetings remotely.
3 
 
 
1 All dates refer to the year 2023. 
2 It does not appear the Commission reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint during a meeting.  The Open 
Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law Regulations require that, within 14 business days 
after receiving a complaint, a public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, 
if appropriate; and send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 
30A, § 23; 940 CMR 29.05(5).  The public body shall simultaneously provide the Attorney General with a copy 
of the complaint, the response, and a description of any remedial action taken.  940 CMR 29.05(5).  A public 
body may delegate authority to respond to a complaint to a staff member, but the public body must first meet to 
review the complaint.  See OML 2020-164 (“The Board may review the complaint at a meeting and then 
authorize the Administrator to prepare and send the response, or the Administrator may receive the complaint 
and draft a response for the Board to review at a meeting, but the Board may not remove itself entirely from the 
process.”). 
3 The complaint includes the same allegation regarding a February 13 meeting.  Complaints alleging violations 
of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the alleged violation, or if the 
alleged violation could not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed 
within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3).  
The complaint was filed more than 30 days after the February 13 meeting; therefore, we do not review this 
allegation. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Commission’s 
response, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed 
the notices and minutes for the Commission’s March 27 and April 24 meetings. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible 
to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except when meeting in executive session, “all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public.”).  Generally, access to a meeting must include 
the opportunity to be physically present as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by 
the members of the public body.  See OML 2020-100; OML 2018-75; OML 2016-54.
4  
Section 20 of Chapter 20 of the Acts of 2021, An Act Relative to Extending Certain COVID-
19 Measures Adopted During the State of Emergency, temporarily suspended the requirement 
under the Open Meeting Law that meetings be held at a physical location that is accessible to 
the public as long as a public body instead provides “adequate, alternative means” of access to 
meetings through technology that enables the public to clearly follow the proceedings of the 
public body while those activities are occurring.
5  Section 20 does not require a public body to 
provide remote access to its meetings if those meetings are instead held in-person at a location 
that is open and physically accessible to the public.  See OML 2023-52; OML 2021-147. 
 
Here, four members of the Commission attended the March 27 and April 24 meetings 
in per
son, and the meetings were open to the public to attend at the City Hall Annex, Second 
Floor Meeting Room 203, as stated on the meeting notices.  Additionally, one member of the 
Commission participated in each of the meetings remotely via Zoom.  The complaint alleges 
that because a Commission member was permitted to participate in the meetings via Zoom, 
the public also should have had the option to attend the meetings remotely.  There is no 
requirement in the Open Meeting Law that a public body provide the public with remote 
access if the meeting is instead held in-person at a location that is open and physically 
accessible to the public, even if a public body member participates remotely.  See OML 2021-
79.  Therefore, the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  Although public 
bodies are not required to provide multiple methods of access to their meetings, we encourage 
public bodies to do so when feasible. 
  
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 These provisions have been extended several times since their inception, most recently on March 29, 2023, 
when Governor Maura Healey signed into law a supplemental budget bill which further extended the expiration 
of the temporary provisions to March 31, 2025. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Commission.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Paul DeMeo (via email: ) 
Greg Dumas, Chair, Gardner Conservation Commission (via email:  
gdumas@gardner-ma.gov) 
Gardner City Clerk (via email:
 tsiriphan@gardner-ma.gov) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
