===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
September 19, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 176 
 
VIA EMAIL ONL
 Y 
 
Gary Howayeck, Esq. 
Assistant Corporate Counsel  
ghowayeck@fallriverma.org  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Howayeck: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on March 4, 2022,
1 alleging that 
the Fall River Board of Health (the “Board”), and specifically its chair Thomas Cory, violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Board on or about February 2, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter on February 
28. The complaint alleges that two topics included on the notice for the Board’s January 27 
meeting were insufficiently specific.
2   
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a) and find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. 
In reaching this determination we reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, the request for further review, the notice for the Board’s January 27 meeting, 
and a video recording of the Board’s January 27 meeting.
3  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, 
§
 20(b). Meeting notices must include, among other things, “a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise noted. 
2 The complaint also alleges that the Board did not allow members of the public to address the Board regarding the 
proposed increases in licensing fees discussed during the January 27 meeting. The Open Meeting Law does not 
require that a public body allow public participation at its meetings, see G.L. c. 30A § 20(g); therefore, we decline to 
review this allegation. 
3 A video recording of the Board’s January 27 meeting can be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dYMfx8mR_9E. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
must list topics for discussion with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a topic to 
include sufficient specificity when a member of the public can read the topic and understand the 
anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2012-83.4 When reviewing a 
meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a 
meeting notice standing alone. See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155. Rather, we review what the 
public body actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently specific 
to inform the public of the anticipated discussion. 
 
The Boa
rd posted notice for a meeting to be held on January 27. Included on the notice 
were the topics “Discussion Regarding: Massachusetts Rental Voucher Program Inspection and 
Re-inspection Fees” and “Discussion Regarding: Possible Increase to LBOH Licensing Fees.” 
Under the topic related to the voucher program inspection fees, the Board heard from Faust 
Fiore, the City’s Director of Minimum Housing, regarding the process and purpose of property 
inspections under the voucher program and that charging a fee for such inspections is standard 
across the state. Thereafter, the Board voted to accept the fee structure as presented. The 
complaint alleges that the notice topic “Discussion Regarding: Massachusetts Rental Voucher 
Program Inspection and Re-inspection Fees” was insufficient because there was “no list of the 
proposed fees to be imposed by the City . . . .” We disagree. The notice specifically identified 
that the Board would discuss the fees for inspections and reinspections performed under the 
rental voucher program. 
 
Under the topic “Poss
 ible Increase to LBOH Licensing Fees” the Board briefly discussed 
and then tabled discussion regarding a list of proposed new fees that would fall under the 
purview of the Board. The Board then discussed and voted on proposed increases to a list of 
existing fees, one by one. The complaint alleges that the notice topic “Discussion Regarding: 
Possible Increase to LBOH Licensing Fees” was insufficiently specific because it did not “list 
the fee increases” and because it included an acronym. We find that the notice topic reasonably 
informed the public that the Board would discuss increasing fees under the Board’s authority. 
See OML 2021-154 (“[W]here a public body anticipates discussing specific budget items, it must 
specifically list them in its meeting notice. However, where a public body is reviewing the entire 
town fiscal year budget, it is not required to list all budget items on its meeting notice.” (citations 
omitted)); OML 2014-75 (“[W]hen a public body is reviewing a warrant in its entirety, and not 
specific warrant articles, . . . an agenda item such as the one at issue here is sufficiently specific 
to put the public on notice of the Board’s intentions.”).  
 
Whether the use of the acronym “LBOH” rendered the notice insufficient is a close call.  
We gen
erally recommend that public bodies avoid using acronyms and abbreviations that are not 
commonly understood. We are satisfied that the acronym “BOH” on a meeting notice for a board 
of health would be adequately understood, although the acronym “LBOH” to refer to “local 
board of health” might be less so. In context, we are satisfied that the topic as listed on the notice 
was sufficiently specific to inform the public that the Board would discuss increasing fees within 
its authority. See OML 2015-101; OML 2015-154. Nonetheless, we suggest that the Board avoid 
abbreviations or acronyms on meeting notices in the future, particularly where the abbreviation 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
or acronym is not widely understood by members of the public. Compare OML 2015-197 
(finding that use of the acronym “TRRP” rendered a meeting notice topic insufficiently specific), 
with OML 2015-172 (finding that the acronym “FAA” is commonly used and generally 
understood by the public).   
 
For the
 reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Fall River Board of Health (via e-mail: healthdepartment@fallriverma.org) 
Patrick Higgins (via email: )  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
