===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
February 11, 2013 
OML 2013-13 
Lauren F. Goldberg 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
Re: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Goldberg: 
This office received a complaint, dated November 9, 2012, from Bernard Brahm, alleging 
that the Provincetown Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint alleges that: 
The Board of Selectmen held a public meeting on August 13, 2012. The posted agenda 
lists Item 5B: "Town Manager follow-up. Votes may be taken." and Item 5C: "Other —
Other matters that may legally come before the board not known at the time of posting. 
Votes may be taken." No specific topics are listed. The meeting minutes nonetheless 
refer to multiple topics discussed that are not on the agenda, including a vote to appoint 
two individuals as representatives on a multi-town "Master Plan Committee." 
This complaint was originally filed with the Board on or around September 12, 2012. We 
received your response on behalf of the Board in a letter dated October 5, 2012. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the September 12, 2012 and November 9, 2012 
complaints; the Board's October 5, 2012 response; the notice for the Board's August 13, 2012 
meeting; and the minutes of the Board's August 13, 2012 meeting. 
1 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
The Board held its regularly scheduled meeting on August 13, 2012 at 6:00 PM. The 
Board's meeting notice contained multiple topics, including "Town Manager follow-up" and 
"Other — Other matters that may legally come before the board not known at the time of 
posting." 
Hours before the meeting, the Assistant Town Manager participated in a telephone 
conference call and learned that the Provincetown-Truro-Wellfleet Bicycle and Pedestrian 
Master Plan Committee requested that towns formally appoint representatives to serve on the 
Committee, and that this appointment was time sensitive because the Committee was holding a 
workshop the following week. 
During the "Town Manager follow-up" portion of the meeting, the Town's Department 
of Public Works Deputy Director updated the Board on recycling operations in Town; the Town 
Manager reported that she would be supervising the Harbormaster; and she announced that at its 
next meeting the Truro Board of Selectmen would be discussing "North Union Field 
construction and Police Department cost sharing." 
During the topic "Other," the Town Manager announced that the Master Plan Committee 
would be holding a workshop the following week, and that Assistant Town Manager David 
Gardner and Bicycle Committee member Roger Chauvette have been attending these meetings as 
the Town's representatives. The Board voted unanimously to appoint Mr. Gardner and Mr. 
Chauvette as Provincetown's representatives to the Master Plan Committee. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of each meeting 48 hours 
in advance of the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Such notice must contain "the date, time and 
place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." Id. A public body may discuss topics not listed on the meeting 
notice, as long as the topics were not reasonably anticipated by the chair 48 hours before the 
meeting. See OML 2011-13. 1  
We understand that the topics "Town Manager Follow-up" and "Other" are generally 
standing items found on the Board's meeting notices and are used to discuss matters that are not 
anticipated by the Chair at the time the meeting notice was posted.2  According to the Board's 
I  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found by visiting www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
2  Public bodies may include standing items on their meeting notices to cover topics that were not reasonably 
anticipated by the chair 48 hours before the meeting. See Open Meeting Law Frequently Asked Questions available 
at www.mass.goviago/openm eetin  
Q: May our public body list a section for "New Business" to cover topics which come up for the first time at 
the meeting in the meeting notice? 
A: Yes, this category may be used for topics that the Chair did not reasonably anticipate for discussion when filing 
the meeting notice to be posted. Some public bodies use this to category for their public comment or open forum 
periods. The best practice would be to explicitly state in the notice that the time is being reserved for topics that the 
chair did not reasonably anticipate would be discussed. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
response, the items that were discussed under these topics during the August 13, 2012 meeting 
were not anticipated by the Chair 48 hours before the meeting. 
The complainant specifically makes reference to the Board's vote to appoint individuals 
to the Master Plan Committee. Because the Assistant Town Manager learned on the day of the 
meeting that the Town needed to appoint representatives to the Master Plan Committee, the 
Chair could not have reasonably anticipated this topic 48 hours before the meeting. 
Additionally, we have not been presented with any evidence that the matters discussed during 
"Town Manager Follow-up" were anticipated by the Chair 48 hours before the meeting. 
Therefore, we find that the Board also did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing these 
matters. We note, however, that as a best practice our office recommends that, whenever 
possible, public bodies update their meeting notices or postpone discussion of topics that arise 
fewer than 48 hours before a meeting, so that members of the public may be given advance 
notice of agenda items.3  
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing matters that 
were not specifically listed on its August 13, 2012 meeting notice because these topics were not 
reasonably anticipated by the Chair 48 hours before the meeting. We now consider this matter 
closed. Please be advised that closing this complaint does not resolve any other complaints that 
are currently pending with our office, the Town, or the Board. Please feel free to contact our 
office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
/Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Bernard Brahm 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3  See Open Meeting Law Frequently Asked Questions: 
Q: May a public body consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice? 
A: Yes, if it is a topic that the chair did not reasonably anticipate 48 hours before the meeting. If a meeting topic is 
proposed after the meeting notice is posted, the public body is encouraged to update its posting to provide the public 
with as much notice as possible of what subjects will be discussed during a meeting. Although a public body may 
consider a topic that was not listed in the meeting notice if unanticipated, the Attorney General strongly encourages 
public bodies to postpone discussion and action on topics that are controversial or may be of particular interest to the 
public if those topics were not listed in the meeting notice. 
3 