===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
       J u n e  2 6 ,  2019 
 
       O M L  2020 – 75 
Carolyn Murray, Esq. 
K.P. Law LLC 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By e-mail only: cmurray@k-plaw.com 
     
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Murray: 
This office received a complaint from Jude Ahern on November 4, 2019, alleging that the 
Wellfleet Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on October 5, and the Board responded by 
letter dated October 18. The complaint alleges that the Board has an improper practice of 
destroying the audio recordings of meetings once written minutes are approved. Specifically, the 
complainant asserts that on July 1, she asked the town clerk or audio recordings of the Board’s 
May 21 and June 5 meetings, and that in response to this request, she was informed that the 
Board destroys audio recordings once minutes are approved. The complaint also asserts that on 
October 5, the complainant reviewed minutes of the Board’s July 17 meeting and learned that the 
Board had discussed a letter from town counsel regarding audio taping, but that the minutes did 
not elaborate on why counsel approved of the Board’s practice, which we construe as an 
allegation that the Board’s July 17 meeting minutes are insufficiently detailed.     
 Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate t he Open Meeting Law.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint, the Board’s response, the request for 
review of the complaint, as well as minutes of the Board’s July 17 meeting.  We also spoke by 
phone with counsel for the Board. 
FACTS 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2019. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 We find the facts as  follows.  The Board posted notice for and held meetings on May 21 
and June 5.  The Board has a practice of audio recording its meetings to assist in the preparation 
of meeting minutes.  Once the minutes are approved, the Board destroys the audio recordings. 
The Board approved the minutes of its May 21 meeting on June 5, and approved the minutes of 
its June 5 meeting on June 19.  On July 1, the complainant requested the audio recordings of the 
May 21 and June 5 meetings, and was told the audio recordings are destroyed once the minutes 
are approved. 
 The Board posted notice for and held a meeting on July 17.  During that meeting, the 
Board Chair, Gerald Parent, updated the Board on a letter from town counsel addressing the 
Board’s practice regarding the audio recording of meetings and the destruction of those 
recordings.  Under the heading “Correspondence,” the minutes state “Letter from town counsel 
regarding audio taping, Chair [P]arent updated the Board that the meetings are audio taped by the 
secretary and once the minutes have been approved the audio recordings are deleted. Town 
counsel has looked into this and has sided with this decision.” 
DISCUSSION 
The complaint alleges that the Board’s practice of destroying audio recordings of 
meetings once the minutes are approved violates the Open Meeting Law.  We disagree.  The 
Open Meeting Law requires that “[m]jnutes of all open sessions shall be created and approved in 
a timely manner.  The minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft 
form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 1 days.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  
Furthermore, the Open Meeting Law specifies that “[t]he minutes of any open session, the notes, 
recordings or other materials used in the preparation of such minutes and all documents and 
exhibits used at the session, shall be public records in their entirety.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e).   
The Open Meeting Law does not require that public bodies record their meetings, nor 
does it address retention of audio recordings of meetings.  Rather, the retention of recordings of 
meetings for use in drafting minutes is addressed by the Municipal Records Retention Schedule, 
which requires that recordings be retained “until final minutes are approved or administrative use 
ceases, whichever occurs later.”  Municipal Records Retention Schedule, § 01.080.  Complaints 
involving public records requests and/or municipal records retention may be resolved by 
contacting the Supervisor of Records within the Secretary of the Commonwealth's Office. See 
OML 2017-79.2  Therefore, we find that the Board’s practice of destroying audio recordings of 
meetings once the minutes are approved did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  We make no 
determination as to whether the Board complied with its obligations under separate records 
retention laws.  See OML 2020-42, n. 4.     
The complaint also alleges that at its July 17 meeting, the Board discussed a letter from 
town counsel regarding audio taping, but that the minutes of the July 17 meeting did not 
elaborate on why counsel approved of the Board’s practice.  The Open Meeting Law requires 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
that a public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive 
sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a).  When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for 
substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement.  See OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64.  By 
substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so 
that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred.  See OML 2012-106.  Furthermore, our office reviews 
meeting minutes to ensure that they accurately reflect the discussions that take place during 
meetings; our office does not review minutes to ensure that the statements made during meetings 
are factually true or that discussions are sufficiently in-depth.  See OML 2015-133. 
The minutes of the July 17 meeting accurately reflect that the Board chair updated the 
Board regarding the Board’s practice of audio recording its meetings for the secretary’s use in 
preparing meeting minutes, and deleting the recordings once the minutes are approved.  The 
chair also reported, and the minutes state, that town counsel reviewed the practice and “has sided 
with this decision.”  The Board was not required to engage in a more in-depth discussion of the 
specific reasons that counsel may have provided for concluding that the Board’s practice 
regarding its audio recordings was appropriate, nor was the Board required to read counsel’s 
entire letter into the record of the meeting.  Where the Chair informed the Board of the Board’s 
practice regarding destruction of audio recordings and reported that counsel had sent a letter 
approving of that practice, and the July 17 meeting minutes accurately summarize the Chair’s 
brief statements to the Board, we find that the minutes satisfy the requirements of the Open 
Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not v iolate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Jude Ahern (via e-mail: ) 
Wellfleet Planning Board, c/o Dan Hoort, Town Administrator (via e-mail: 
Dan.Hoort@wellfleet-ma.gov) 
