===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
September 9, 2019 
OML 2019-112
Aldo A. Cipriano, Esq.
277 Main Street 
Victoria Building 
Second Level, Atrium Suite 
Marlborough, MA 01752
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Cipriano:
This office received a complaint from David Parry on April 25, 2018, alleging that the 
Southborough Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A,
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 28, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated December 5.2 The complaint alleges that the 
Board deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting.3
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. We resolve this 
complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), after reviewing the 
original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review. We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017.
2 The Board’s response to the complaint was not received by this office until December 20. While the Board met to 
review the complaint’s allegations and sent the complainant a response within 14 business days of receipt of the 
complaint, we remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law also requires that it send to the Attorney General a copy 
of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken within 14 business days. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 
940 CMR 29.05(5).
3 The Division of Open Government is charged specifically with reviewing complaints to determine compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, thus we decline to review, and offer no opinion on, whether any 
actions taken by the Board, the Chair of the Board, or the Town Administrator could be a violation of Town bylaws. 
See OML Declination 1-19-16 (Southborough Zoning Board of Appeals); OML Declination 3-11-13 (Abington 
Conservation Commission).
o

===PAGE 2===
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.” Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is 
a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id.
The complaint alleges that the Board communicated outside of a properly posted meeting 
about a letter that was sent to the complainant. Specifically, the August 21 letter was signed by 
Board Chair Daniel Kolenda only, and advised the complainant that “we have received 
complaints from several Town employees ... about unwelcome behavior .... Therefore,.. . 
you will only be allowed on Town property to conduct your personal Town business,” and to 
attend public meetings. The complaint suggests that the Board never discussed the letter during 
a properly posted meeting and therefore must have secretly communicated. The Board states 
that the chair only consulted with the Town Administrator, Town Legal Counsel and Police 
Chief about the letter. Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit the Board’s account 
of the facts and find that it did not have a private discussion among a quorum of members 
outside of a noticed meeting. See OML 2014-122.4 As such, we find that the Board did not 
deliberate outside of a properly posted meeting, and therefore did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by deliberating outside of a properly posted meeting. We now consider the complaint 
addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other 
complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our 
office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.
Siirc^rpl v
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: David Parry
Southborough Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4 Open Meeting Law detenninations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2
