===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
May 7, 2018 
OML 2018-63 
Selina Shaw 
Town Administrator 
Boxborough Board of Selectmen 
29 Middle Road 
Boxborough, MA 01719 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Shaw: 
This office received a complaint from Steven Ballard on April 11 alleging that the 
Boxborough Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 17; and you responded, 
on behalf of the Board, by letter dated February 27. The complaint alleges that the Board failed 
to timely approve minutes from its January 8 open session meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed 
notices of, and open session minutes from, the Board's January 8, February 5, and February 12 
meetings; and a video recording of the February 5 meeting.2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board posted notice for, and held a meeting on, 
January 8. During this meeting, the Board appointed a Winter Recreation Director and four 
individuals to the Traffic Safety Committee, received updates on the "Bettering Boxborough 
Together" initiative and "Winterfest," discussed the Grange Room renovation project, reviewed 
the police and fire departments' FY 2019 budgets, approved minutes, accepted the resignation of 
a Selectmen and two members of the Energy Committee, discussed a special town meeting, 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018, 
2 The video recording is available at https://bxbtv.viebit.com/player.php7haslFWlYBng9T2260. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
received reports from Board members regarding various Town departments, and met in 
executive session. 
The Board also posted notices for, and held meetings on, January 9, January 12, January 
22, January 24, and January 30. The only topics listed on the notices for the Board meetings 
held on January 9, January 24, and January 30 were executive sessions. 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on February 5 at 6:00 P.M. The notice 
listed thirteen topics, one of which was "Minutes." Under this topic, the Board listed for 
approval the open and executive session minutes of its January 8 meeting, and the open and 
executive session minutes of its January 22 meeting. 
During its February 5 meeting, the Board reviewed the draft open session minutes from 
its January 8 meeting. Specifically, the Board discussed revising that portion of the minutes that 
pertained to the Grange Room renovation project as the Board felt that the draft minutes did not 
accurately memorialize and reflect the tenor of the conversation. The Board "passed over review 
of the listed minutes" and agreed that it would review for approval the January 8 minutes at its 
next meeting. February 5 was 28 days from the date of the January 8 meeting. 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on February 12 at 6:00 P.M. The notice 
listed twelve topics, one of which was "Minutes." Under this topic, the Board listed for approval 
the open and executive session minutes of its January 8 meeting, the executive session minutes 
of its January 22 meeting, and the executive session minutes of its February 5 meeting. 
During its February 12 meeting, the Board again reviewed the open session minutes from 
its January 8 meeting and discussed whether the revised minutes incorporated the revisions 
suggested at the February 5 meeting. The Board then unanimously approved the minutes from 
its January 8 open session meeting "as presented." The minutes were posted to the Town 
website on February 20. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 3 OA, § 22(a). The meeting minutes must be reviewed 
and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). "Timely manner" means "within the 
next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can 
show good cause for further delay." See 940 CMR 29.11; OML 2018-48.3 Whenever possible, 
we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2014-15; 
OML 2012-91. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The complaint alleges that the minutes from the Board meeting held on January 8 were 
not approved in a timely manner where they were approved 35 days after the meeting. Here, the 
Board met five times after the January 8 meeting without approving the minutes, but those 
meetings were all held within 30 days; therefore, 30 days was the later of the two time periods in 
which the Board had to approve the minutes in a timely manner. The minutes were ready for 
approval on February 5-28 days from the date of the January 8 meeting. The Board reviewed 
the minutes during this meeting but ultimately decided not to approve the minutes because the 
draft minutes did not accurately reflect the Grange Room renovation project discussion. The 
Board reviewed and approved the January 8 minutes at its next meeting on February 12. 
Although the minutes were not approved at the Board's February 5 meeting, the Board made 
good faith efforts to timely approve the minutes. See OML 2015-190. Accordingly, we find that 
the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
Finally, we note that the Open Meeting Law does not require that public bodies post their 
meeting minutes to a website. See OML 2013-103. However, the Board has chosen to post its 
meeting minutes on its website and has notified the complainant that minutes from its meetings 
are available at that location. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We now consider the 
complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address 
any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with our office. Please feel free to 
contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Steven Ballard 
Boxborough Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 