===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
September 27, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 133 
 
 
Monterey Select Board 
 c/o Melissa Noe 
Town Administrator 
435 Main Road, P.O. Box 308 
Monterey, MA 01245 
 
By email only:  
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Ms. Noe: 
 
This office received three complaints from John Weingold on March 27, 2021, alleging 
that the Monterey Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1  The first complaint wase originally filed with the Board on January 8, the second 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on January 12, and the third complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on January 15.  Donald Coburn, who was Chair of the Board at 
the time of the complaints, responded to the complaints, on behalf of the Board, by letters dated 
January 11 and February 2.  The complaints generally allege that the Board failed to review an 
Open Meeting Law complaint, deliberated outside of properly posted meetings, failed to 
announce that meetings were being recorded, and failed to allow public participation. 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters.  Following 
our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to review an Open 
Meeting Law complaint and deliberating outside of a properly posted meeting via email.  We 
find that the Board did not violate the Open meeting Law in the other ways alleged.  In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s responses to the complaints, 
and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed the notice 
and open session minutes of the Board meeting held on December 23, 2020.  Finally, we spoke 
with you by telephone on September 13. 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS  
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board is a three-member public body; thus two 
members constitute a quorum.  The complainant is a member of the Board.   
 
In 2018, the Town of Monterey submitted a request for proposals for a vendor to provide 
high-speed broadband internet service to the Town.  During a meeting held on August 1, 2018, 
the Board reviewed a proposal from Fiber Connect for telephone and internet.  Between 
December 21 and December 23, 2020, Chair Donald Coburn emailed documents to the other two 
Board members;2 these documents pertained to an agreement with Fiber Connect to provide 
broadband internet services to the town.  The emails included Mr. Coburn’s thoughts and 
opinions on specific sections of the agreement.  During a meeting held on December 23, 2020, 
the Board voted by majority vote to “accept the proposed broadband fiber network and 
construction agreement between Fiber Connect and Monterey.”  Additional facts will be 
presented where applicable in the Discussion section that follows. 
 
On January 6, an individual filed a complaint alleging that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting by adding a topic to its notice within 48 hours of its January 6 meeting; failing to 
provide notice to an individual that he would be discussed during the January 6 meeting; and 
discussing the reputation and character of and complaints against an individual during open 
session rather than in executive session.3  On January 7, Mr. Coburn responded to the complaint 
on behalf of the Board. 
  
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We Decline to Review Allegations that the Board Failed to Make an 
Announcement that Meetings Were Being Recorded.   
 
The second complaint alleges that the “Chair fails to warn people as required that the 
remote [Board] meetings are being recorded.”  The Open Meeting Law requires that “[a]fter 
notifying the chair of the public body, any person may make a video or audio recording of an 
open session of a meeting of a public body, or may transmit the meeting through any medium, 
subject to reasonable requirements of the chair as to the number, placement and operation of 
equipment used so as not to interfere with the conduct of the meeting.  At the beginning of the 
meeting, the chair shall inform other attendees of any recordings.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f).  Here, 
the complaint does not identify any specific meetings where the Chair failed to make such an 
announcement, only indicating that such meetings were prior to January 5.  Complainants must 
allege violations with a degree of specificity, as our office will not conduct broad audits of public 
bodies based on generalized allegations.  See OML Declination 3-20-12 (Wilmington Board of 
Assessors).4  We therefore decline to review this allegation. 
 
2 Donald Coburn is no longer a member of the Board. 
3 This complaint was filed by Jeremy Rawitz, a member of the Conservation Commission in the Town of Monterey.  
This office issued a decision resolving this complaint on March 25.  See OML 2021-40.  
4 Open Meeting Law determinations and declination letters may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Although we do not specifically review this allegation, we understand that the Board held 
three remote meetings in December 2020, which were recorded by the Board.  These three 
meetings were held on the platform GoToMeeting, which automatically makes an announcement 
that the meeting is being recorded when the record button is activated.  We advise the Board that 
the requirement that the chair inform attendees of any recording includes any recording made by 
members of the public body itself, including those made for public broadcasting or 
administrative purposes, such as assisting in the drafting of meeting minutes.  See OML 2016-
155; OML 2013-136; OML 2012-24.  We have previously held that a sign may satisfy the 
requirement of notification of a recording and relieve the chair from making a verbal 
announcement at the start of the meeting.  See OML 2016-155; OML 2013-136.  
 
II. The Second Complaint Raises Allegations that Do Not Constitute 
Violations of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
 The second complaint alleges that the Chair i) conducted Board business “outside of open 
meetings completely by himself,” ii) “cuts off and mutes public speakers,” and iii) “blocks 
numerous . . . agenda items.”  None of these allegations identify any specific meetings when 
these actions by the Chair occurred, and our office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies 
based on such generalized allegations.  See OML 2014-119; OML 2012-106.  Nevertheless, even 
if true, these allegations would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law.   
 
With respect to the allegation that the Chair conducted Board business on his own, the 
Open Meeting Law applies when a quorum of members of a public body meet and deliberate on 
matters within its jurisdiction.  See G.L. c 30A, § 18.  For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a 
“quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  To the extent that the 
complaint may be construed as alleging that the Chair effectively made decisions that should 
have been made by the Board as a whole, this allegation goes to the authority of individuals such 
as the Chair versus the Board to take action on particular matters, which is not a matter governed 
by the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2018-144.  We offer no opinion on whether any actions 
taken by the Chair could be a violation of some other town bylaw, law or regulation outside the 
scope of the Division’s review.   
 
With respect to the allegation regarding public participation, the Open Meeting Law does 
not require that a public body allow public participation, but rather provides that “[n]o person 
shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at 
the request of the chair, be silent.”  G.L. c. 30A § 20(f).  The law permits the Chair of the Board 
to decide who may speak at a meeting and for how long.  See OML 2017-189; OML 2014-23; 
OML 2012-23.  Thus, as it is within the Chair’s discretion to limit public participation, he would 
not violate the Open Meeting Law by doing so during a meeting.   
 
Finally, regarding the allegation that the Chair “blocks” items from being placed on the 
notice, the Open Meeting Law imposes no obligation on chairs of public bodies to place items on 
a meeting agenda, unless a chair anticipates discussing a particular topic.  See OML 2016-68.  In 
fact, the Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to discuss any topic.  See OML 2015-
73; OML 2014-98; OML 2013-64; OML 2012-23.  Rather, the law requires that a meeting notice 
list all topics the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Thus, a chair would not violate 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
the Open Meeting Law by not including topics on a notice or deciding not to discuss such topics 
at meeting.   
 
III. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Review an Open 
Meeting Law Complaint. 
 
The first complaint alleges that the Board failed to review an Open Meeting Law 
complaint.  The Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 days of receipt of a complaint, the 
public body review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to 
the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  
G.L.  c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  Upon the filing of an Open Meeting Law complaint 
with a public body, the chair “shall disseminate copies of the complaint to the members of the 
public body,” and “the public body shall review the complaint’s allegations.”  940 CMR 
29.05(3), (5).  Thus, a public body must meet to review the complaint and formulate a response, 
or meet to delegate that authority, and respond to the complaint within 14 business 
days.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); OML 2017-69; OML 2012-90.   
 
Here, a complaint was filed with the Board on January 6 and Chair Coburn responded to 
the complaint on January 7.  However, the Board did not first review the complaint and authorize 
the Chair to respond.  Proper procedure requires that a public body review a complaint before 
authorizing an individual, such as the chair, to respond on its behalf.  See OML 2017-132; OML 
2012- 95; OML 2011-6.  Once a public body has reviewed a complaint during a meeting, its 
decision to simply refer the complaint, rather than discuss its substance, is the public body’s 
prerogative.  See OML 2019-40; OML 2017-96.  We find that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law when it did not first meet to review the complaint before the Chair responded.  See 
OML 2013-173.  
 
IV. We Find that a Quorum of Board Members Improperly Deliberated via 
Email but Did Not Deliberate via Social Media. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law defines a “meeting,” in relevant 
part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s 
jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 
‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the 
distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided than no 
opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” 
is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.   
 
All three complaints generally allege that a quorum of the Board deliberated by email, 
while the third complaint also alleges that a quorum of the Board deliberated via social media.  
Complainants must allege violations with a degree of specificity, as our office will not conduct 
broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations.  See OML Declination 3-20-12 
(Wilmington Board of Assessors).  Here, we confine our review to the emails that were 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
exchanged among the Board between November 27, 2020, and February 25, as well as social 
media posts between November 4, 2020, and January 8, which were provided to this office by 
the complainant. 
 
We decline to review any emails or social media posts that occurred between November 
4, 2020, and December 4, 2020.  Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must 
be filed with the public body within 30 days of the alleged violation.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b).  If the 
alleged violation could not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then the 
complaint must be filed within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered.  
940 CMR 29.05(3).  Here, the complainant was a recipient of the emails that were sent on 
November 27, November 30, and December 4, 2020.  In addition, social media posts that 
occurred on November 4, November 5, November 7, and November 25, 2020, were forwarded to 
the complainant on the day that they were posted.  Accordingly, any complaint relating to these 
emails or social media posts should have been filed within 30 days.  Because the complaints 
were filed on January 8, 10, and 15, which was between 35 and 65 days later, we find that the 
allegations with respect to these specific emails and social media posts are untimely and we 
decline to review them.  See OML 2017-34; OML Declination 8-25-2014 (Barnstable Fire 
District Prudential Committee 
 
We find that three emails sent on December 21, December 22, and December 23, 2020, 
contain improper deliberations because these emails reached a quorum of the Board and included 
one member’s opinions on or suggested resolutions of matters to be discussed by the Board and 
within the Board’s jurisdiction, namely, the approval of a contract for broadband internet.  See 
OML 2018-118; 2015-3; OML 2014-108; OML 2013-136; Boelter v. Board of Selectmen of 
Wayland, 479 Mass. 233, 243 (2018).  The expression of an opinion of by one public body 
member on matters within the body’s jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, 
even if no other public body member responds.  See OML 2016-104; OML 2015-33; OML 
2012-73.  Moreover, the Open Meeting Law does not carve out an exception to the definition of 
“deliberation” for discussions that do not result in a decision or vote.  We find that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating among a quorum via email.  We order the Board 
to publicly release these three emails within 30 days of receipt of this determination, if it has not 
already done so.   
 
We find that emails exchanged on February 19 and 25 did not constitute deliberation 
because the communications were either between Town Legal Counsel and the Town 
Administrator, who are not members of the Board, or between the Town Administrator and one 
member of the Board.  See OML 2021-113; OML 2020-71.  Therefore, because these 
communications were not between a quorum of Board members, the Board did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2020-71. 
 
Finally, with respect to the allegations that a quorum of the Board deliberated outside of a 
properly posted meeting in the Monterey-Community Google Group we find no evidence of 
deliberation by a quorum of the Board.  It is not a violation of the Open Meeting Law for a 
quorum of the members of a public body to also be members of a social media group.  However, 
if a member of the Board were to communicate directly with a quorum of the Board over that 
social media platform, such communication may violate the Open Meeting Law.  We find no 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
evidence that Board members communicated with a quorum of the Board on the Monterey-
Community Google Group.  However, one Board member posted comments on December 12, 
2020, December 18, 2020, and January 8 pertaining to creating a human resource position, 
appointing an interim Town Administrator, or approving a contract for broadband internet 
services to the Monterey-Community Group.  While the posts related to Board business, we find 
no evidence that the posts involved communication directed to a quorum of the Board, or that 
Board members responded to the posts of other members.  The Open Meeting Law does not 
restrict an individual’s right to make comments to the general public.  See OML 2017-111.  
Here, we find that the posts by individual Board members were directed to members of the 
public who were members of the Monterey-Community Google Group, rather than specifically 
to a quorum of the Board.  See OML 2017-192; OML 2017-111; 2015-15 (Open Meeting law 
restricts communication between or among a quorum of a public body outside of a meeting, 
indicating that the communicator’s intent must be examined).  As such, we find that the Board 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
However, we remind the Board that while the Open Meeting Law does not restrict an 
individual’s right to make comments to the general public via social media, it does apply to 
communication between or among a quorum of a public body outside of a meeting.  See OML 
2017-111.  The communicator’s intent in posting to a social media platform is relevant; whether 
other members of the public body happen to see the communication is not determinative.  When 
comments are made in a social media group that is closed to the public, it is reasonably inferable 
that posts are directed solely at the members of that group, and, when a quorum of a public body 
belongs to a closed group, especially if the group is small, it becomes more likely that posts and 
comments are targeted towards the other public body members.  See OML 2018-145.  We 
recognize that it is sometimes difficult to determine whether, under the circumstances, a given 
communication constitutes deliberation under the Open Meeting Law, and therefore our office 
specifically cautions public bodies on the use of social media and electronic communications.  
See OML 2017-88; OML 2014-80. 
   
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to meet to review an Open Meeting Law complaint.  We also find that the Board violated 
the Open Meeting Law by deliberating via email and we order the Board to publicly release the 
December 21, December 22, and December 23, 2020, emails within 30 days of receipt of this 
determination to the extent it has not already done so.5  In addition, we order immediate and 
future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations 
could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
 
5 The Board may publicly release the emails by reading their content during a meeting and listing the emails in the 
meeting minutes, or by referencing the emails during a meeting and posting the emails along with the minutes on the 
municipal website.  
 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:   John Weingold: By email only –  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
 
