===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
August 5, 2019 
OML 2019-97
Aldo A. Cipriano, Esq.
277 Main Street 
Victoria Building 
Second Level, Atrium Suite 
Marlborough, MA 01752
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Attorney Cipriano:
This office received two complaints from Attorney Andrew Lawlor, on behalf of his 
client Louise Barron, on March 11, 2019, alleging that the Southborough Board of Selectmen 
(the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaints were 
originally filed with the Board on December 26; and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by 
separate letters dated January 22, 2019. The first complaint alleges that a portion of the Board’s 
December 4 meeting was inaccessible. The second complaint alleges that the Board’s December 
4 open session meeting minutes are inaccurate.2
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the 
Board’s responses to the complaints, the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review, the Board’s response to the request for further review, the complainant’s supplemental 
response, and the Board’s reply to the supplemental response. We also reviewed the notices and 
open session minutes of the Board’s December 4 and December 18 meetings, the draft version of 
the Board’s December 4 meeting minutes, and video recordings of the December 4 and 
December 18 meetings.3 Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on July 26, 2019.
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 The complaint also alleges that the Board failed to provide copies of “staffer’s notes.” The Open Meeting Law 
governs requests for meeting minutes and documents used during a meeting, only. G.L. c. 30A, § 22. Requests for 
other documents are governed by the Public Records Law, G.L. c. 66, § 10. Any complaints involving requests for 
other records may be resolved by contacting the Supervisor of Records within the Secretary of the Commonwealth's 
Office.
3 The video recording of the December 4 meeting is available at:
http://71.126.253.179:8087/Cablecast/Public/Show.aspx?ChannelID=3&ShowID=1244; 
the video recording of the December 18 meeting is available at:
http://71.126.253.179:8087/Cablecast/Public/Show.aspx?ChannelID=3&ShowID=1267.

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
December 4 at 6:30 P.M. The notice listed seven topics, including Public Comment.
The December 4 meeting was held as planned. Southborough Access Media, a local 
nonprofit media organization, recorded the meeting. During the meeting, the Board appointed a 
Building Commissioner and an Animal Control Officer; appointed individuals to the Economic 
Development Committee and the Housing Opportunity Partnership Committee; received updates 
from the Trails Committee, the Personnel Board, the Finance Director, and the Town 
Administrator; approved seventeen sets of minutes of meetings held between April 11, 2016 and 
November 19; approved a license for installation of storm water management facilities; accepted 
two monetary donations; discussed annual license renewals and an Open Meeting Law 
complaint; and discussed a purchase and sale agreement for Fayville Hall.
Finally, the Board took public comment. Ms. Barron addressed the Board and raised 
concerns with the Town’s spending. She then said that the Board had “broken the law” by 
violating the Open Meeting Law. Acting Chair Daniel Kolenda advised Ms. Barron that if she 
wanted to “slander” town officials, public comment would cease. Ms. Barron told him to “stop 
being a Hitler.” Mr. Kolenda immediately stated that the Board was “moving into recess.” Mr. 
Kolenda can then be seen pointing in the direction of Ms. Barron, but the audio was turned off so 
no words can be heard. The Board then adjourned.
During a December 18 meeting, the Board reviewed draft minutes of the December 4 
meeting. These draft meeting minutes included a statement that “Mr. Kolenda ended public 
comment.” Board member Brian Shea indicated that statement was not accurate and suggested 
that the minutes instead state that a recess was taken. Board member Bonnie Phaneuf agreed that 
the Board recessed and further stated that the Board thereafter adjourned. The Board 
unanimously approved the December 4 meeting minutes as amended.
DISCUSSION
The first complaint alleges that the Board “switched off the audio feed ... so as to 
prevent people from observing the meeting remotely.” The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to 
eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding deliberations and decisions on which public policy is 
based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law 
requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, 
unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Access to a meeting 
must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and hear what is being 
discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2017-135; OML 2015-38; OML 2014- 
3; OML 2013-189.4 In addition, the Open Meeting Law allows any person to make a video or 
audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a public body, or to transmit the meeting 
through any medium. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f).
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
Here, the December 4 meeting was being recorded by Southborough Access Media.
There is no allegation that members of the public who were in attendance at the meeting location 
had difficulty hearing any of the Board discussions. Rather, the complaint alleges that the audio 
was turned off while the Board was in recess following the public comment period. As such, 
members of the public who were remotely watching the meeting could not hear the comments 
made by Acting Chair Kolenda during that recess. We find that the Board did not turn off the 
audio but rather the technician who was recording the meeting for Southborough Access Media 
turned off the audio and then the video once the Board recessed and adjourned the meeting. 
Therefore, we find that the Board did not infringe on the right of Southborough Access Media to 
broadcast or record the meeting, and furthermore, because a public body is not required to 
broadcast or record its meetings, the technician’s decision to turn off the audio and video 
broadcast did not violate the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-82; OML 2013-40.
The second complaint alleges that the Board’s December 4 meeting minutes are 
inaccurate because they failed to include Acting Chair Kolenda’s comments to Ms. Barron while 
the Board was in recess. The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and 
maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, 
time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a 
list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions 
taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing 
meeting minutes, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 
2016-105; OML 2013-64. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain 
enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could 
read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106. After 
reviewing the video recording of the Board’s December 4 meeting, we find that the Board did in 
fact recess and thus the approved open session minutes provide an accurate and sufficiently 
detailed summary of the discussions and actions that occurred during that meeting. See 2016-40. 
We further find that the Board did not violate the law by failing to include Mr. Kolenda’s 
statements to Ms. Barron as those statements occurred while the Board was in recess. While 
minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and 
the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented. See OML 2012-29; OML 
2011-55.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
3

===PAGE 4===
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Andrew Lawlor, Esq.
Southborough Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
