===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200
(617) 727-4765 TTY
www.mass.gov/ago
August 20, 2021 
OML 2021 – 116 
Patrick Ahearn, Esq. Town Counsel 
Town of Westwood  
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Ahearn: 
This office received a complaint from Nada Milosavikevic-Fabrizio on September 30, 
2020, alleging that the Westwood Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 28; and you
responded, on behalf of the Board, on August 25, after receiving an extension of time to respond
from our office.  The complaint alleges that the notice for the Board’s June 30 meeting was
insufficiently specific.
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed 
with our office requesting further review, the notice of the Board’s June 30 meeting, and a 
transcript and video of the June 30 meeting.2  We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law in the way alleged.  
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be 
printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time, and place of 
the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The list of topics shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 
2 Video of the June 30 meeting is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0_7PsG6aous&list=PL1-
oG8l6PVYY0Uj-m_Alfgv0dQseGiI3K&index=21. 
By Email Only:

===PAGE 2===
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally 
consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read 
the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-
35. 3  Unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review the sufficiency of a meeting 
notice standing alone, but rather we review what was actually discussed at the meeting to 
determine if the notice was sufficiently specific to make the public aware of the discussion 
topics.  See OML 2019-64; OML 2014-155. 
 
The complaint alleges that the topic “Summer work plan – next meetings July 21 and 
August 18,” was insufficiently specific.  We agree.  During the Board’s June 30 meeting, when it 
reached the agenda topic “Summer work plan,” the Town Planner began by explaining that 
because the scope of the Spring 2020 Town Meeting was reduced to include only warrant articles 
related to financial matters, the Board would need to resubmit any of the several zoning 
amendments from the Spring 2020 warrant that it still wished to pursue.  The Town Planner 
provided an overview of the timeline for submitting zoning amendments for inclusion at the next 
Town Meeting.  Thereafter, the Board and the Town Planner engaged in discussion regarding 
specific zoning amendments that the Board intended to pursue.  The Board identified certain 
zoning amendments that initially had been submitted for the Spring Town Meeting which it 
deemed non-controversial, and likely would resubmit without change.  The Board identified 
other zoning amendments that had been submitted for the Spring Town Meeting but that 
members felt should be reviewed and considered further, and re-opened for public input.  The 
Board also discussed ideas for other warrant articles that it might wish to pursue which it had not 
submitted for the Spring Town Meeting.  Although the Board did not take any votes and did not 
make any binding decisions about which matters to pursue, the discussion identified policy 
priorities that would guide the Board’s and the Town Planner’s work over the next several 
months.  
 
We find that the topic “Summer work plan – next meetings July 21 and August 18” could 
naturally be understood as referring to little more than the scheduling of the Board’s next two 
meetings.  The meeting notice gave no indication that the Board would be discussing possible 
zoning amendments and warrant articles at all, let alone that it would engage in a discussion of 
specific warrant articles that it intended to pursue or prioritize.  The Open Meeting Law requires 
that a meeting notice list topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an 
informed decision whether to attend the meeting in order to observe the discussion regarding a 
topic of interest. See OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22; OML 2015-74. The topic “Summer work 
plan” did not sufficiently advise the public of the specific topics to be discussed at the meeting, 
and therefore was insufficiently specific, in violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
 We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and 
we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
law.  Because the Board did not take any votes or make any final decisions during the June 30 
meeting, and any decision to submit articles for a future Town Meeting warrant would require a 
separate vote at a subsequent meeting of the Board, we order no further remedial action.    
 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
 
       Sincerely, 
 
        
 
       Carrie Benedon 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  Nada Milosavikevic-Fabrizio - By email only:  
 Westwood Planning Board - By email only:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
