===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 29, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 101 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Michele Randazzo, Esq. 
KP LAW 
101 Arch Street, 12th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Randazzo: 
This office received a complaint from Michael Corsetti on July 7, 2020, alleging that the 
Manchester-by-the-Sea Zoning Board of Appeals (the “ZBA”) and Conservation Commission 
(the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was 
originally filed with the ZBA and Commission on May 11, and you responded on behalf of the 
ZBA and Commission by letter dated July 2, pursuant to an extension of time granted by our 
office.1 In his complaint, Mr. Corsetti alleges that the ZBA and Commission held “private 
meetings” regarding his applications for certain permits.2 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we conducted our review.3 Following our 
review, we find one instance in which the ZBA deliberated via email outside of a noticed 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 The complaint alleges that the Town has destroyed evidence of wrongdoing. We note that, even if true, this 
allegation would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law. Accordingly, we decline to review it. See 
OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 
3 Mr. Corsetti also alleges that the Town of Manchester-by-the-Sea failed to respond to two requests for meeting 
minutes and audio recordings. The Open Meeting Law imposes obligations on public bodies; town clerks are not 
subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML Declination 5-16-19 (Bourne Town Clerk). Therefore, a request for 
minutes that is directed to a public body will likely fall within the Open Meeting Law. A request for minutes that is 
directed to a Clerk as Public Records Access Officer will likely fall under the Public Records Law. See OML 2018-
32. Here, because Mr. Corsetti’s request for minutes was sent to the Town Clerk without any request that it be 
forwarded to the ZBA or Commission, and the Town Clerk is not subject to the Open Meeting Law, Mr. Corsetti’s 
 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
meeting, in violation of the Open Meeting Law. However, we find no evidence of any other 
“private meetings” held by either the ZBA or the Commission. Finally, although not alleged in 
the complaint, we find that the ZBA and Commission approved meeting minutes which were 
insufficiently detailed.  
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the ZBA and 
Commission’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We 
reviewed a spreadsheet, provided by the ZBA and Commission’s legal counsel, Attorney 
Randazzo, of the metadata for nearly three thousand emails, which represents all emails between 
Town officials, ZBA members, and Commission members regarding Michael Corsetti or the 
property at 10 Old Wenham Way from August 1, 2018 through April 6, 2020. We also reviewed 
the full text of approximately two dozen emails, provided by Attorney Randazzo, involving 
either ZBA Members or Commission Members regarding Michael Corsetti or the property at 10 
Old Wenham Way.4 We reviewed emails between Mr. Corsetti and Town officials regarding his 
public records requests and his subsequent appeal to the Supervisor of Public Records. See 
SPR20/0958. We also spoke by phone and emailed with Attorney Randazzo on several occasions 
from November 2020 through April 2021. We reviewed audio recordings of the ZBA’s August 
28, 2019, November 20, 2019, and January 22, 2020, meetings. We reviewed audio recordings of 
the Commission’s meetings held on August 13, 2019, September 3, 2019, September 24, 2019, 
October 15, 2019, November 5, 2019, November 26, 2019, December 17, 2019, January 21, 
2020, and February 11, 2020. We reviewed the meeting minutes and meeting notice for the 
ZBA’s August 28, 2019, and November 20, 2019, meetings and well as the Commission’s 
November 26, 2019, December 17, 2019, January 21, 2020, and February 11, 2020, meetings. 
Finally, we corresponded with Mr. Corsetti via email on several occasions from July 2020 
through February 2021.   
DISCUSSION 
 This complaint arises out of Mr. Corsetti’s applications for town permits to develop a 
property in Manchester-by-the-Sea. Mr. Corsetti sought approval from both the ZBA and 
Commission to develop a property at 10 Old Wenham Way. First, Mr. Corsetti sought and 
received a building permit to expand an existing single-family home by adding a second level. 
He also applied for a special permit to pave a portion of Old Wenham Way that runs through the 
Property, which was denied by the ZBA. Mr. Corestti also filed a Notice of Intent pursuant to the 
Wetland Protection Act and the Wetland Protection Bylaw with the Commission for 
improvements to an existing private roadway. The Commission issued a denial on the Notice of 
Intent.  
 During the pendency of these applications, between August 28, 2019, and February 11, 
2020, both the ZBA and Commission held numerous public meetings regarding Mr. Corsetti’s 
applications.  
 
requests fell under the Public Records Law. In addition, the Open Meeting Law does not govern a public body’s 
obligation to respond to requests for audio recordings, which fall under the Public Records Law, G.L. c. 66, § 10. 
See OML 2014-45; OML Declination 7-7-14. As these requests were both made under the Public Record’s Law, this 
allegation is outside the jurisdiction of the Division of Open Government and we decline to review it. See OML 
Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners).  
4 We refer to you in the third person for the sake of clarity.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 Mr. Corsetti alleges that the audio recordings of the posted meetings of the ZBA and 
Commission provide evidence that both public bodies engaged in additional “private meetings.”5 
For the reasons that follow, we do not find any evidence of “private meetings,” but we do find 
one instance of improper deliberation via email outside of a posted meeting. We also find that 
the minutes of certain meetings were insufficiently detailed and therefore inaccurate. 
1. The ZBA and Commission did not engage in “private meetings,” as all of the 
discussions at issue took place during posted meetings that were open to the public. 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by 
a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The 
Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of other 
procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a 
meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.” Id. A one-way communication 
from one public body member to a quorum on business within a body’s jurisdiction is 
deliberation, even if no other members respond. See OML 2020-136; OML 2019-144.6 For the 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public 
body. G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  
Based on our review of the audio files of the ZBA and Commission meetings held 
between August 28, 2019, and February 11, 2020, we do not find any evidence that suggests that 
members of the ZBA or Commission held additional meetings outside of the posted, public 
meetings. Rather, the audio recordings of the posted meetings reveal that both the ZBA and 
Commission engaged in informal conversations regarding public body business at the end of 
certain posted meetings, once the public and applicants had left the room, but before the 
meetings were adjourned. We observed these conversations in audio recordings of the ZBA’s 
August 28, 2019, and November 20, 2019, meetings and well as the Commission’s November 
26, 2019, December 17, 2019, January 21, 2020, and February 11, 2020, meetings. On each 
occasion, the ZBA or Commission had substantively addressed Mr. Corsetti’s application, which 
was included on the meeting notice, earlier in the public meeting. Then, after concluding other 
business, the ZBA or Commission addressed administrative matters, such as approval of meeting 
minutes or scheduling future meetings, at which point attendees generally left the room, if they 
had not already. We find no indication that either public body actively encouraged the public to 
leave the meeting room, or announced that the meeting was over, or made any other misleading 
statements regarding the completion of the meeting, prior to proceeding with these informal 
 
5 Mr. Corsetti alleges that, while his applications were pending, “[t]he Town of Manchester-by-the-Sea has been 
holding private meetings regarding 10 Old Wenham Way and the applicant Michael Corsetti.” As the Open Meeting 
Law only imposes obligations on public bodies, not municipal employees, we did not investigate the actions of any 
Town employees. See OML 2019-85; OML 2018-44; OML Declination 5-16-19 (Bourne Town Clerk). 
6 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
conversations. The informal conversations also always took place prior to the vote to adjourn the 
meetings, and remained open to the public. Nonetheless, the ZBA and Commission appeared to 
refrain from making candid remarks about Mr. Corsetti’s application and his likely plans for 
developing the property until after observers left the meeting location.  
Where a public body lists several anticipated topics on a meeting notice, the Open 
Meeting Law does not prohibit the body from discussing the topics in an order other than as 
listed on the notice, and the Law does not prohibit a body from returning to a noticed topic later 
in a meeting to discuss it further. See OML 2018-148. We find the ZBA’s and Commission’s 
meetings distinguishable from situations in which public bodies improperly continued their 
deliberations after a meeting was formally adjourned. See OML 2020-165; OML 2014-6 (where 
adjournment of Board’s meeting indicated to the public that no further deliberation would occur 
on that date, Board violated the Open Meeting Law by continuing its discussion after that time); 
OML 2013-158 (Committee engaged in improper deliberation by discussing matters immediately 
after adjourning meetings). Because the informal conversations occurred during properly noticed 
meetings which were open to the public, we find that the ZBA and Commission did not 
deliberate outside of a posted meeting and did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this respect. 
2. A review of thousands of email communications identified one email exchange in which 
the ZBA deliberated outside of a posted meeting. 
To investigate Mr. Coretti’s allegation regarding “private meetings,” we also reviewed a 
spreadsheet, provide by Counsel, of the metadata for nearly three thousand emails, which 
represents all emails between Town officials, ZBA Members and Commission Members 
regarding Michael Corsetti and 10 Old Wenham Way from August 1, 2018 through April 6, 
2020. The emails are communications between certain town employees and members of the ZBA 
or Commission regarding Mr. Corsetti’s applications before the ZBA and Commission. We also 
reviewed the full text of approximately two dozen emails, provided by Attorney Randazzo at our 
request, involving either ZBA members or Commission members regarding Michael Corsetti or 
the property at 10 Old Wenham Way. In the course of our review, we found no evidence that 
members of the ZBA or Commission engaged in any non-public in-person meetings regarding 
Michael Corsetti or the property at 10 Old Wenham Way.  
 In the course of our review of emails to investigate whether the ZBA or Commission had 
held any meetings that were not posted and open to the public, we identified one email chain that 
constituted improper deliberation, in violation of the Open Meeting Law. On January 7, ZBA 
Chair Sarah Mellish emailed the entire ZBA with an update about changes that had been made to 
the property at Old Wenham Way and asking other members whether they would like to attend a 
site visit of the property. Around 10:00 A.M. on January 8, ZBA Member James Mitchell 
inquired when the site visit was scheduled. Around 10:45 A.M. on January 8, ZBA Member 
Brian Sollosy replied, stating, “I will attend, I’m just not sure it’s necessary. Obviously what he’s 
doing flies in the face of the ConComm, in fact all three boards, but I’m not sure it has any 
bearing on what’s before us. Just my humble opinion.”  
 There are several exemptions to the definition of deliberation, which are construed 
narrowly. See OML 2016-172; OML 2014-51. For example, deliberation does not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information, or distribution of reports or documents 
that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed. G.L. c. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
30A, § 18; OML 2015-69. The three ZBA emails described above largely focused on the 
scheduling of a site visit, which is a permissible topic for a quorum to discuss outside of a 
meeting under the Open Meeting Law. However, Member Sollosy’s response contained his 
opinion on a matter of public business within the ZBA’s jurisdiction. As Member Sollosy’s 
opinion reached more than a quorum of the ZBA, we find that this email deliberation outside of a 
meeting violated the Open Meeting Law. We did not find any other instances of improper email 
deliberation.  
3. The minutes of certain ZBA and Commission meetings are insufficiently detailed and 
therefore inaccurate. 
Although not alleged in the complaint, we find that the ZBA and Commission approved 
meeting minutes which were insufficiently detailed and therefore inaccurate, where the minutes 
did not summarize discussions of Mr. Corsetti’s application that took place as part of the 
“informal” conversations described above. The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body 
“create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth 
the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each 
subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the 
actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Although 
minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and 
the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented. See OML 2019-153; 
OML 2017-79. However, meeting minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a 
member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear 
understanding of what occurred. See OML 2016-105.  
The minutes of two of the ZBA’s meetings and one of the Commission’s meetings do not 
capture the informal conversations regarding Mr. Corsetti’s applications that occurred near the 
end of the meetings. The Open Meeting Law does not prohibit a public body from returning to a 
noticed topic later in a meeting. See OML 2018-148. However, if a public body discusses a topic 
a second time, the meeting minutes must also summarize that subsequent discussion. During the 
ZBA’s November 20, 2019, meeting, the ZBA returned to speaking about the reconsideration of 
Mr. Corsetti’s application which the ZBA had undertaken earlier in the meeting. In the later 
conversation, various ZBA members spoke about Mr. Corsetti’s purposes for developing the 
property, the width of roads required for subdivisions, the permitting process, and other topics 
related to Mr. Corsetti’s property for approximately seven minutes. This later discussion was not 
captured in the November 20, 2019, meeting minutes. At an August 29, 2919, meeting, the ZBA 
also held an informal conversation about Mr. Corsetti’s intentions for the property near the end 
of the meeting, which is not captured in the meeting minutes. Similarly, at the Commission’s 
January 21, 2020, meeting, the Commission discussed Mr. Corsetti’s application, including a 
prior order of conditions and site visits, for five minutes as the final topic before adjourning. This 
discussion was not reflected in the Commission’s meeting minutes for the January 21, 2020, 
meeting. For these reasons, we find that the meeting minutes of the ZBA’s August 28, 2019, and 
November 20, 2019, meetings and the Commission’s January 21, 2020, meeting failed to include 
an accurate summary of the discussions held during those meetings, in violation of the Open 
Meeting Law.  
 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find one instance in which the ZBA deliberated via 
email outside of a noticed meeting, in violation of the Open Meeting Law. We also find that the 
ZBA and Commission approved meeting minutes which were insufficiently detailed. We order 
the ZBA’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the ZBA 
that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence 
of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 In addition, we order the ZBA to publicly release the three January 7-8, 2020, emails 
discussed above within 30 days of receipt of this determination. The ZBA may publicly release 
the emails by reading their content during a meeting and listing the emails in the meeting 
minutes, or by referencing the emails during a meeting and posting the emails along with the 
minutes on the municipal website. 
 Finally, we order the ZBA and Commission to amend, within sixty (60) days of receipt 
of this letter, their meeting minutes to include the “informal conversations” regarding Mr. 
Corsetti that took place during the ZBA’s August 28, 2019, and November 20, 2019, meetings 
and the Commission’s January 21, 2020, meeting that are not already captured in the approved 
meeting minutes. Finally, we order the ZBA and Commission to send a copy of the amended 
minutes to Mr. Corsetti, and make them available to the public, within sixty-five (65) days.   
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our Office or the 
ZBA and Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have 
any questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Michael Corsetti (via e-mail:  
 
 Manchester-by-the-Sea Zoning Board of Appeals and Conservation Commission  
 c/o Town Clerk Dianne Bucco (via e-mail:  
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 7===
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 