===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
February 21, 2012 
OML 2012 - 12 
Brenda A. Beaton 
General Counsel 
Board of Registration in Medicine 
200 Harvard Mill Square 
Suite 330 
Wakefield, MA 01880 
Dear General Counsel Beaton: 
Our office has reviewed a complaint filed by attorney Andrew Hyams, on behalf 
of his client, dated July 22, 2011, alleging that the Data Repository Committee (the 
"Committee") of the Massachusetts Board of Registration in Medicine (the "Board") 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint 
alleges that on May 4, 2011, "the Committee mistakenly went into executive session 
pursuant to section 21(a)(7). The Committee should have gone into exec. session under 
section 21(a)(1) since they were discussing 'discipline' and 'complaints' brought against 
my client." The complaint was filed with the Board on May 24, 2011. The Board 
responded to the complaint on June 14, 2011. 
We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by entering 
executive session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7). In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the May 24, 2011 complaint filed with the Board, the Board's June 14, 2011 
response, and the July 22, 2011 complaint. We also reviewed redacted minutes of the 
Committee's May 4, 2011 executive session and related correspondence between Mr. 
Hyams and the Board. 
FACTS 
A physician represented by Mr. Hyams resigned her fellowship in January 2010. 
Following her resignation, she received a letter from the Board stating that they had 
received a report of disciplinary action from her program. The physician had been under 
investigation, and her resignation prompted a disciplinary referral to the Board in 
1 
===PAGE 2===
accordance with the Board's regulations found at 243 CMR 3.02. The physician asserts 
that she was unaware she was under investigation at the time of her resignation, and that 
her resignation was unrelated to the investigation. Under G.L. c. 11, § 53B, a hospital is 
required to report any disciplinary action against a licensed medical professional to the 
Board ("53B report"). The law requires that these reports remain confidential. 
The Board takes two actions after receiving a 53B report. The Board reviews the 
report through its disciplinary unit to determine whether the Board needs to take action 
against the physician's license. The Committee also reviews the 53B report, once it has 
been referred to the Board, to determine whether information contained in the report must 
be listed in the physician's public profile. The Board's review of the report and 
determination whether to take further action has no impact on the Committee's review 
and determination whether information in the report should be included in the physician's 
public profile. 
A physician's public profile contains information about a physician that the Board 
is required to make public pursuant to G.L. c. 112, § 5. Among the information the 
Board makes public through the profile is certain information that may be contained in a 
53B report. G.L. c. 112, § 5. Because G.L. c. 111, § 53B and G.L. c. 112, § 5 require 
that 53B reports remain confidential, the Committee routinely meets in executive session 
to discuss them, citing G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7), "to comply with, or act under the 
authority of, any general or special law." According to the Board, the Committee does 
not consider the merits of the underlying report during these meetings. It meets in 
executive session only to confer with counsel about what information in the report must 
be made part of the physician's public profile. 
On May 4, 2011, the Committee met and convened in executive session under 
Purpose 7 to consider a 53B report against Mr. Hyams' client. Mr. Hyams had requested 
that the Board enter executive session under Purpose 1, to consider "discipline" of an 
individual, which would have afforded his client certain rights, including the right to be 
present, to speak on her own behalf, and to have counsel present. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(1). The Committee did not allow Mr. Hyams or his client to attend the executive 
session. Following the Committee's decision to include information from the 53B report 
in the physician's public profile, Mr. Hyams filed this complaint. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be open to 
members of the public, unless the public body convenes in executive session. $ee G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 20(a)—(b), 21. A public body may enter executive session for one or more of ten 
enumerated purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Among the ten enumerated purposes for 
executive session is Purpose 1, which allows a public body to enter executive session to 
"discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public 
officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The individual 
to be discussed in such an executive session must be notified in writing by the public 
body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session. Id. The individual must 
2 
===PAGE 3===
also be afforded the right to be present during deliberations that involve that individual, 
the right to speak on his or her own behalf, the right to have counsel present to advise but 
not participate, and the right to have an independent record of the meeting made at the 
individual's own expense. Id. 
Another enumerated purpose for executive session is Purpose 7, "fflo comply 
with, or act under the authority of, any general or special law or federal grant-in-aid 
requirements." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7). A public body entering executive session under 
Purpose 7 must state the specific law that requires the public body to keep its 
deliberations confidential. 
Mr. Hyams makes two arguments as to why the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by entering executive session to consider his client's public profile. First, 
Mr. Hyams argues that the Committee was required to enter executive session under 
Purpose 1 instead of Purpose 7 because the Committee was considering discipline in 
evaluating the 53B report. Second, Mr. Hyams argues that the rules of statutory 
construction required the Committee to choose the more specific purpose over the more 
general one — in this case to enter executive session under Purpose 1 because that is a 
more specific and relevant purpose than Purpose 7. We address each argument in turn. 
Mr. Hyams argues that because the Committee considered a 53B report during the 
meeting, which is a disciplinary record, the Committee was discussing"the discipline or 
dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff 
member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). But the Board was not considering 
disciplinary action against Mr. Hyams' client. Rather, the Board was simply fulfilling its 
statutory obligation to make certain reported information public. The Board is required 
by G.L. c. 112, § 5, to make certain information about a physician public. The law 
further requires that "all information contained in a report filed under this section shall be 
confidential, and the board may disclose it only if doing so is necessary to enable the 
board to use the information in a disciplinary proceeding against the registrant." G.L. c. 
111, § 53B. The Committee is also required to make certain information public as part of 
a physician's public profile, including "the resignation from or nonrenewal of medical 
staff membership or the restriction of privileges at a hospital taken in lieu of or in 
settlement of a pending disciplinary case related to competence or character in that 
hospital." G.L. c. 112, § 5. 
The Board established the Committee to apply this law, and determine what data 
must be made public pursuant to the law and the Board's regulations. The Committee 
does not make any disciplinary determination, however. The Committee merely reviews 
53B reports referred to the Board by a hospital and determines what information within 
that report is required by law to be made public. The Committee makes no determination 
as to the underlying merits of the report. Thus, the Committee plays no role in imposing 
discipline on physicians and Purpose 7 is the appropriate vehicle for carrying out its 
statutory duties. 
Mr. Hyams additionally argues that the rules of statutory construction require the 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Committee to choose the specific law over the general law — in this case to enter 
executive session under Purpose 1 because that is a more specific and relevant purpose 
than Purpose 7. As stated above, we find that Purpose 7 is the appropriate section of the 
Open Meeting Law for the Committee to cite in entering executive session, and that 
Purpose 1 does not apply. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board of Registration in Medicine and its Data Repository 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by entering executive session under 
Purpose 7 on May 4, 2011. 
We now consider this complaint resolved and this matter closed. Please contact 
me if you have any questions or believe any of the facts presented to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Gover=ent 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
cc: Andrew Hyams 
4 