===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
May 20, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 97 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Kevin S. Freytag, Esq.  
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP  
   
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Freytag: 
 
This office received a complaint from Cindy Christiansen on May 21, 2021,1 alleging that 
the Milton Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 12, and you responded on behalf of 
the Board by letter dated April 1. The complaint alleges that the Board improperly deliberated 
during the Town of Milton’s February 22 Special Town Meeting. 
 
We appreciate the parties’ patience as we reviewed and considered this matter. Following 
our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request 
for further review, and a video recording of the February 22 Special Town Meeting.2  
 
FACTS 
 
The relevant facts are not in dispute. On February 22, the Town convened a Special 
Town Meeting, which was held remotely via Zoom in accordance with Chapter 92 of the Acts of 
2020. On at least two occasions during the Special Town Meeting, the Board requested that the 
Special Town Meeting be paused so that the Board could caucus privately. In response to these 
requests, the Town Meeting Moderator paused the Special Town Meeting while the Board 
privately discussed matters using a separate teleconference line that was not accessible to the 
 
1 All dates are in 2021 unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the February 22, 2021, Special Town Meeting may be found at 
https://www.facebook.com/MiltonAccessTV/videos/special-town-meeting-february-22nd-2021/447443473142113/. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
public. After each caucus, the Chair of the Board informed the Moderator that the Board had 
completed its discussions and the Special Town Meeting resumed.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in limited circumstances, “all meetings of a 
public body shall be open to the public.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). Except in an emergency, “a public 
body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L, c. 30A, § 20(b). The Open Meeting Law defines 
“meeting,” with limited enumerated exceptions, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L, c. 30A, § 18. One exception to the definition 
of “meeting” is “a session of a town meeting convened under section 9 of chapter 39 which 
would include the attendance by a quorum of a public body at any such session.” Id. 
“Deliberation” is defined, in relevant part, as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.” Id.  
 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Board deliberated during the February 22 Special 
Town Meeting without posting notice of a meeting and in a manner that was inaccessible to the 
public, in violation of the Open Meeting Law. In support of this allegation, the Complainant 
distinguishes this matter from an earlier determination issued by this office, OML 2016-126.3 In 
OML 2016-126, members of the Uxbridge Board of Selectmen participated in discussions and 
votes on the floor of a Town Meeting and again on the floor of a Special Town Meeting. A 
complaint was filed alleging that the board had improperly deliberated during those Town 
Meetings without posting notice of a meeting of the board. We explained that the Open Meeting 
Law does not reach any aspect of Town Meeting, and therefore concluded that the board’s 
deliberations did not violate the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2016-126.  
 
We acknowledge that the facts presented in the instant matter differ from those in OML 
2016-126 insofar as the Board conducted its discussions during the Special Town Meeting in a 
manner that the public could not hear, and not by open participation on the floor of Town 
Meeting.  However, as the Special Town Meeting was held remotely, the Board’s discussions via 
private teleconference were analogous to the common practice of members of select boards to sit 
together during Town Meetings so that they may consult and respond to matters as they arise 
during Town Meeting. Consistent with our past determination and with this office’s longstanding 
guidance explaining that the Attorney General will not investigate allegations of improper 
deliberation taking place during sessions of Town Meeting, we reiterate our interpretation that 
the Open Meeting Law does not reach any aspect of Town Meeting and conclude that the 
Board’s discussions did not violate the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2016-126; Attorney 
General’s Open Meeting Law Guide at 7-8. We continue to note that the Attorney General’s 
stance that this office will not investigate allegations of improper deliberation taking place 
during sessions of Town Meeting is a matter of interpretation and future Attorneys General may 
choose to apply the Open Meeting Law in such situations. See Attorney General’s Open Meeting 
Law Guide at 7-8.  
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Kathleen Conlon, Chair, Milton Select Board (via email: 
 
Cindy Christiansen (via e-mail:  
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
