===PAGE 1===
  THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 10, 2020 
OML 2020 – 85 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Patrick Costello, Esq.  
Louison, Costello, Condon & Pfaff, LLP 
pcostello@lccplaw.com  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Costello: 
This office received a complaint from Seth Taylor on January 13, 2020, alleging that the 
Chatham Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) and its Chair Shareen Davis violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on 
December 9, 2019, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated January 16, 2020.1 
The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it revoked the 
appointments of all members of the Charter Review Committee (the “Committee”), abolished the 
Committee, and thereafter failed to create and approve minutes for three Committee meetings 
held prior to the Committee’s dissolution.   
 
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
and find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. The Committee is a 
public body created by the Town of Chatham Home Rule Charter (the “Charter”). The Charter 
provides that,  
 
At least once every five years a special committee shall be appointed by the board 
of selectmen for the purpose of  reviewing the provisions of the  charter and shall 
h a v e  t h e  t i t l e  o f  c h a r t e r  r e v i e w  c o m m i t t e e .  T h e  c h a r t e r  r e v i e w  committee shall 
submit a report to town meeting concerning any proposed amendments or revisions 
to the charter which such committee deems necessary. 
 
 
1 We note that the Board did not respond to the complaint within the fourteen business days provided for in the Open 
Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s regulations. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). The Board 
explains that its failure to respond to the complaint within the prescribed timeframe was due to an inadvertent 
administrative oversight and commits to responding to future complaints in compliance with the Law.  
===PAGE 2===
Charter at § 8-2. 
  
 On June 18, 2018, the Board appointe d five members, including the Complainant, to the 
Committee. On August 27, 2018, the Board appointed four more members to the Committee. No 
members of the Board were appointed to the Committee. The Committee reports directly to 
Town Meeting and not to the Board. At the Board’s June 18, 2018, meeting, the Board noted that 
it had earlier determined that Board members were not permitted to serve on the Committee and 
that the Board had been advised by Town Counsel that the Board had no authority to direct the 
work of the Committee. At that same meeting, the Complainant stated that it was Town Meeting 
that had the authority to adopt or reject the recommendations of the Committee. 
 
On July 15, 2019,
2 the Board held a meeting during which it discussed issues and 
complaints related to the Committee as constituted at that time. During the meeting, the Board 
voted, pursuant to its authority under Section 5-1(b) of the Charter, to revoke “the appointments 
of all members of the current [Committee], effective immediately; and also . . . abolish[] the 
[Committee], effective immediately.” At the time of the Board’s July 15 vote, the Committee 
had not yet created and approve minutes for its meetings held on June 11, 18, and 25. On 
September 16, the Committee’s recording secretary submitted draft minutes of the June 11, 18, 
and 25 meetings to the Town Manager. On November 18, the Board voted to appoint new 
members to the Committee. Finally, on December 10 and 11, the draft minutes for the 
Committee’s June 11, 18, and 25 meetings were posted to the Town’s website.  
 
The Complainant argues that the Board, “having dissolved the [Committee], and in its 
function as the original appointing authority for the [Committee], immediately assumed all 
responsibility for the timely public rendering of those minutes of the [Committee], which had not 
been previously prepared and publicly filed.”
3 We have stated that when a subordinate public 
body has been disbanded, the parent public body should approve the subordinate public body’s 
meeting minutes. See OML 2020-19; OML 2017-34 (“Where a parent public body has sufficient 
connection to or control over a subordinate public body, such as a subcommittee or a preliminary 
screening committee, we conclude that it is a permissible practice for one public body to approve 
the minutes of another public body.”); OML 2016-96; OML 2012-111.4 Although it is possible 
that an appointing authority may also be a parent public body, here we find that the Board lacked 
the necessary connection to, or control over, the Committee to be considered the Committee’s 
parent public body. Specifically, the Committee reported directly to Town Meeting, and not to 
the Board. Additionally, the Board understood that it had no authority to direct the work of the 
 
2 Hereinafter, all dates are in 2019.  
3 In support of the contention that the Board assumed responsibility for the creation and approval of the Committee’s 
meeting minutes when it revoked the appointments of all Committee members, the Complainant cites a conversation 
he had with an Assistant Attorney General in the Division of Open Government on the Division’s Open Meeting 
Law hotline. That conversation related to an earlier Open Meeting Law complaint filed by the Complainant against 
the Board regarding similar issues. During the discussion, our office explained that we have required parent public 
bodies to approve minutes of subcommittees that are disbanded. Here, with all the information now available to us, 
we find that the Board is not the parent public body of the Committee. The Complainant also discussed the 
timeliness of a potential new Open Meeting Law complaint regarding the continued failure to approve minutes, and 
we explained that failure to create and approve minutes is considered an ongoing violation for purposes of the 
timeliness of a complaint.  
4 All previous determinations and declinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s 
website: https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
 
3 
 
Committee. Finally, the Board and the Committee did not share any members. For these reasons, 
we do not find that responsibility for the creation and approval of the Committee’s meeting 
minutes transferred to the Board upon dissolution of the Committee as it was then constituted. 
Therefore, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it did not create 
and approve minutes for the Committee’s meetings held on June 11, 18, and 25.5 
 
Although the complaint was filed with the Board and we find that the Board was not 
obligated to approve the Committee’s meeting minutes, we recommend that the Committee, 
which has since been reappointed, approve the June 11, 18, and 25 meeting minutes if it has not 
yet done so. The Committee may delegate that task to the Town Manager or to other town 
staff. See OML 2020-81. A copy of this determination will be sent to the Committee. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider this matter closed. This determination does not address any other 
complaints which may be pending with our office or the Board. Please contact our office at (617) 
963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
       
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Chatham Board of Selectmen c/o Shanna Nealy, Executive Secretary (via e-mail: 
snealy@chatham-ma.gov) 
Chatham Charter Review Committee c/o Julie Smith, Town Clerk (via email: 
jsmith@chatham-ma.gov)  
Seth Taylor (via email: ) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
5 The Board argues that we should decline to review the complaint because the Committee ceased to exist when the 
Board voted on July 15 to revoke the appointments of all members of the Committee and abolish the Committee. 
Because we resolve this determination on other grounds, we do not determine here whether the Committee 
continued to exist after the Board’s July 15 vote.  
