===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 17, 2017 
OML 2017-8 
Daryl Beardsley, Chair 
Sherborn Board of Health 
19 Washington Street 
Sherborn, MA 01770 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Beardsley: 
This office received a complaint from Robert Murchison, dated September 23, alleging 
that the Sherborn Board of Health (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 9, and the Board 
responded by letter dated September 22. In his complaint, Mr. Murchison alleges that the Board 
failed to list an anticipated discussion topic on a meeting notice.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice of the Board's 
September 7 meeting, as well as e-mail from Mr. Murchison October 12 that provides additional 
context to his complaint. Finally, we spoke with Board Chair Daryl Beardsley by telephone on 
December 13.3 
We find the facts as follows. The complaint concerns Sherborn Health Agent Mark 
Oram, who had been suspended from his duties in June. On September 1, the Board posted 
notice of a meeting to be held on September 7. The notice contained a section described as 
"CHAIR'S BUSINESS (Not Appointments)," under which was listed, "Health Agent position— 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 The Board's September 7 meeting began at 7:00 P.M. and lasted quite late, past 1:00 A.M. To the extent that the 
complaint alleges that the length of the meeting violated the Open Meeting Law, we note that holding a meeting of 
such duration does not violate G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
job posting update."4 The Board held its September 7 meeting as planned. During this meeting, 
the Board discussed the role of the health agent, including whether to assign some work duties to 
Mr. Oram. Ultimately, the Board voted to assign some health agent tasks to Mr. Oram. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting "at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays" and that every 
notice must include "the date, time and place of such meeting and listings of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L, c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies 
must list topics for discussion with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Board's September 7 meeting notice provided 
insufficient detail regarding the anticipated nature of the discussion because it failed to state that 
the Board would consider assigning certain work-related tasks to Mr. Oram. We find that the 
September 7 meeting notice met the minimum requirements of the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). The notice identified that the Board would be discussing 
the health agent position. While the agenda topic was listed a section of the notice labeled as 
"Not Appointments," it can be reasonably inferred that the Board could vote or otherwise take 
action on the topic. See OML 2014-102.5 We agree with the complainant that the inclusion of 
additional information regarding the Board's intended discussion would have been helpful for 
members of the public. However, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
with respect to its September 7 meeting notice. See OML 2016-39; OML 2015-115. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Robert Murchison 
4 The notice provided to our office indicates that it was updated on September 7, the day of the meeting at issue. 
The Board Chair informed us that the topic "Health Agent position—job posting update" was present on the version 
of the notice posted on September 1. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 
===PAGE 3===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 