===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 19, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 251 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Krisna M. Basu 
Assistant City Solicitor, City of Newton 
kbasu@newtonma.gov  
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Basu: 
 
This office received a complaint from Mike Offner on August 7, 2024,
1 alleging that the 
Newton Free Library Art Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. You responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated July 19. The 
complaint alleges that “[t]he Newton Free Library and the Newton Free Library Art Committee 
continue to [withhold] from the public agendas and minutes of any Art Committee meetings in 
2023.”2  
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee was not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law and therefore did not violate the Law. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response, and the request for 
further review. We also reviewed minutes available online of meetings of the Newton Free 
Library Board of Trustees (the “Board”) held in 2024. Finally, we communicated with counsel 
for the Committee by email and telephone.
3 
 
 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 It appears that the complaint was not originally filed with the Committee using the Attorney General’s Open 
Meeting Law complaint form. We remind the Complainant that Open Meeting Law complaints must be filed using 
the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law complaint form and note that public bodies “need not address a 
complaint that is not filed using the Attorney General’s complaint form.” 940 CMR 29.05(1). 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Committee was formed by the library’s previous 
Manager of Programs and Communications (“Manager”) to assist the Manager in selecting art to 
be exhibited in the library. The Committee consisted of six volunteers who met twice a year to 
review art that had been submitted for consideration for exhibition in the library. The Committee 
would make its selections and then inform the Manager which artists the Committee had chosen. 
The Manager, who is under the supervision of the Library Director, had final authority to accept 
or reject the Committee’s selections. Since the filing of the present complaint, the Committee has 
been disbanded and the library is considering other approaches to selecting art for exhibition.    
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law defines a “public body,” in relevant part, as “a multiple member 
board, c
ommission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or 
within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Supreme Judicial 
Court recognized an exemption to the Open Meeting Law’s definition of “public body” in 
Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991). In Connelly, the Court held 
that where an individual public official creates a committee to advise that person on a decision 
that the individual has the sole authority to make, that committee is not subject to the Open 
Meeting Law. Connelly, 409 Mass, at 235. 
 
In determining that the Hanover High School principal selection committee was not a 
public
 body within the meaning of the Open Meeting Law, the Court in Connelly explained that 
the committee “was not created pursuant to any statute or by-law, but was appointed informally 
by the superintendent.” Connelly 409 Mass. at 235. The Court further explained that “[t]his 
factor alone sets the selection committee apart from other entities considered to be 
‘governmental bodies’ under the open meeting law, almost all of which are creatures of statute, 
ordinance, or by-law.” Id.
4 However, the Court explained that that factor alone was not decisive 
and that “[o]f special significance is the fact that the superintendent, because he is clearly not a 
‘governmental body,’ could, by himself, have accomplished the task of screening and 
interviewing candidates in a closed session, entirely free from the requirements of the open 
meeting law.” Id. Finally, in response to the plaintiff’s argument that the definition of 
“governmental body” was broad enough to include the selection committee, the Court explained 
that, 
 
While
 the open meeting law has been applied to committees which are not 
technically committees of a town, these have all been committees of a 
“governmental body.” The statute is broad enough to treat these as “committees of 
a town.” However, the statute does not extend to committees which are not 
appointed by a “governmental body,” and not otherwise constituted pursuant to 
 
4 Connelly was decided under a previous version of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 39, § 23A, which used the term 
“governmental body” and defined such as “every board, commission, committee or subcommittee of any district, 
city, region or town, however elected, appointed or otherwise constituted.” Chapter 28 of the Acts of 2009 repealed 
the former Open Meeting Law and replaced it with the current version, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
statute, ordinance or by-law, or in some other official way to perform an assignment 
itself subject to the law. 
 
Connelly, 409 Mass. at 237–38 (int ernal citations omitted). 
 
Based on the facts before us, we find that the Committee at issu
 e here fits squarely within 
the exception to the definition of “public body” established by the Supreme Judicial Court in 
Connelly. The Committee was not created by the Board and did not advise or report to the 
Board. Rather, the Committee was created by the library’s Manager of Programs and 
Communications to make recommendations to the Manager regarding art to be exhibited in the 
library. Furthermore, the Manager and the Library Director had final authority to accept or reject 
the Committee’s selections. For these reasons we find that the Committee was not a public body 
subject to the Open Meeting Law and therefore could not have violated the Law. See, e.g., OML 
2020-52; OML 2018-62; OML 2015-93.5  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee was not a public body subject to 
the Open Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints. Please feel free to contact 
our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Jill Mercurio, Director, Newton Free Library (via email: jmercurio@minlib.net)  
Jean Notis-McConarty, President, Newton Free Library Board of Trustees c/o Jill 
Mercurio, Director, Newton Free Library (via email: jmercurio@minlib.net) 
Carol Moore, Newton City Clerk (via email: clerk@newtonma.gov) 
Mike Offner (via email: ) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
