===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
February 7, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 26 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Jared M. Collins, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch St. 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
JCollins@k-plaw.com 
    
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Collins:  
 
On January 2, 2024, this office received a complaint from Kevin Wood, alleging that the 
Georgetown Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on 
November 8.
1  The Commission responded by unsigned letter dated December 28, sent via email 
by the Commission’s Conservation Director, Michèle Grenier.  Additionally, on January 26, 
2024, we received a letter from you, as counsel for the Commission, providing a further response 
to the complaint.2  The complainant alleges that the Commission failed to create and approve 
meeting minutes in a timely manner or produce minutes upon request.  The complainant also 
alleges that notices of meetings of June 20, August 17, and September 28 are either nonexistent 
or insufficiently specific. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law in 
failing to create and approve meeting minutes in a timely manner and in failing to post sufficient 
notice of its September 28 meeting.  We decline to review allegations regarding the notices of 
the June 20 and August 17 meetings as they are untimely.  In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint, the Commission’s responses to the complaint dated December 
28 and January 26, the complainant’s request for further review, and notice of meetings, 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2023. 
2 The Commission is reminded that pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, a public body must send a copy of the 
complaint to the attorney general and notify the attorney general of any remedial action taken within 14 business 
days of receipt of the complaint, unless the attorney general has authorized an extension of time.  G.L. c . 30A, 
§23(b).  Conservation Director Grenier responded on behalf of the Commission approximately four weeks late.  
Your response on behalf of the Commission was approximately eight weeks late.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
including notice of the meeting scheduled for June 20.  We also reviewed the meeting calendar 
available on the Town of Georgetown’s website, and viewed video recordings of meetings held 
on June 15, July 20, and September 21.3  Finally, we communicated by email with Conservation 
Director Grenier on January 19, 2024. 
 
FACTS  
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Commission met in open session on June 15, July 20, 
September 14, September 21, October 19, October 23 and November 7 and in executive session 
on June 20 and September 28.4   
 
The notice of the June 20 meeting lists as the sole topic of discussion: 
 
Anticipated executive session in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 30A, Sec. 21(a):  
 
• To discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting 
may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body 
and the chair so declares.  
 
No notice was posted for the September 28 meeting.  The town-wid
 e calendar, accessible 
at https://www.georgetownma.gov/calendar, includes the following entry on that date: “The 
Conservation Commission will be meeting on Thursday, September 28, 2023 at 7PM in the 
basement meeting room at the Georgetown Town Hall / No Board meeting -Interviews.”  We 
understand that the interviews conducted on September 28 were for the position of Conservation 
Director. 
 
As of
 the date of the complaint, November 8, the most recent minutes posted to the 
Commission’s page on the town website, https://www.georgetownma.gov/conservation-
commission, were of the meeting held on May 18.   The Commission reviewed and approved 
minutes for meetings held in June, July and September on January 25, 2024.  In its December 28 
response, the Commission acknowledged that as of that date, it had “minutes from a meeting in 
September that the Vice Chair took and will be published as soon as feasible.”  Through our 
communications with Conservation Director Grenier, we have learned that the Commission was 
without an administrative assistant or full-time staff for at least several months, starting in June 
2023.  In its December 28 response, the Commission pledged that “[g]oing forward we will be 
hiring an individual to take minutes. Until then, minutes will be posted in a reasonable time 
frame.”   
 
  
 
3 Video recordings of these meetings can be accessed at http://gctv.georgetownma.gov/show/7608  (June 15), 
http://gctv.georgetownma.gov/show/7629 (July 20), and http://gctv.georgetownma.gov/show/7672 (September 21). 
4 Mr. Wood acknowledges that as of the date of his complaint, the deadline had not yet passed for approval of 
minutes of the meetings held on October 19, October 23 and November 7.  However, the deadline had passed by the 
time that the Commission served its response on December 28, acknowledging that minutes for the October and 
November meetings still had not been created.  By that date, 30 days and three meetings had passed since each of 
the three meetings.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION  
 
I. Notice of the September 28 meeting was not sufficiently specific. 
 
The Commission argues that the complaint is not timely as to allegations regarding notice 
of the June 20 meeting.  Pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, a complaint must be filed with the 
public body within 30 days of the alleged violation.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b).  If the alleged 
violation could not have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed 
with the public body within 30 days of the date on which the alleged violation could reasonably 
have been discovered.  940 CMR 29.05(4).  At the latest, the complainant knew of the alleged 
insufficiency of the notice for the June 20 and August 175 meetings on the respective date of 
each of those meetings.  Therefore, the complaint was untimely as to those two meetings where it 
was filed on November 8.  See, e.g., OML Declination 9-27-21 (Ashland Select Board) 
(complaint that notice was insufficient for failure to identify property to be discussed in 
executive session untimely); OML 2019-92 (allegations of insufficient notice of executive 
session untimely).6 
 
When reviewing the timeliness of a complaint we consider when the action that is alleged 
to have violated the Open Meeting Law was reasonably discoverable, not when an individual 
complainant became aware of the action or of the requirements of the Open Meeting Law.  See 
OML 2022-188; OML Declination 2-8-22 (Milton Select Board); OML Declination 12-18-20 
(Pembroke Board of Health).  For example, where a violation occurs during an open session, we 
generally find that it reasonably was discoverable at that time.  See, e.g., OML Declination 5-21-
12 (Montague Board of Selectmen).  Where notice of a meeting is not posted, however, the 
violation may not reasonably be discoverable at the time of the meeting.  Cf. OML 2013-79 (in 
which we did not decline review of allegation of failure to post notice, although meeting went 
forward more than thirty days prior to complaint).  Here, where the Commission represented on 
the Town’s meeting calendar that there was “No Board meeting,” it is not reasonable to expect 
that a member of the public would attend the meeting in order to discover violations of the Open 
Meeting Law on the date of the meeting.  Therefore, we find that the complaint is timely as to 
the allegation regarding notice of the September 28 meeting. 
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Notices must include “a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  Id.  The 
list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  Public bodies may enter a closed, executive 
session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law.  G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a).  Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announcement during open session prior to convening in executive session, in as much detail as 
possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.  See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); OML 2023-128; OML 2020-43; OML 2015-55.  This is particularly 
important “because [it] is the only notification given to the public that the [public body will] 
 
5 The Commission denies that it met in August. 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website,  https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for 
[convening in executive session] was proper or improper.”  District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. 
Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009).   
 
When the only business to be discussed during an open session is the procedural 
requirements for entering executive session, public bodies must list “open session” on the 
meeting notice, as this is the only means by which members of the public are informed that a 
public body will, in fact, hold an open meeting that they are permitted to attend.  See OML 2020-
47; OML 2013-9; OML 2012-68.  Without such notice, members of the public are essentially 
denied the opportunity to attend and learn the reasons for the executive session.  See OML 2013-
195.   
 
The Commission held a meeting, purportedly in executive session, on September 28 to 
conduct i
nterviews.  No formal notice of this meeting was posted.  To the extent that the entry on 
the calendar “The Conservation Commission will be meeting on Thursday, September 28, 2023 
at 7PM in the basement meeting room at the Georgetown Town Hall / No Board meeting -
Interviews” constituted notice, it was woefully inadequate, if not deceptive.  It did not include a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipated would be discussed at the meeting, as 
required by the Open Meeting Law.  See G.L. c. 30A, §20(b).  It did not identify the position for 
which interviews would be conducted, nor list the names of the candidates to be interviewed.  
See OML 2012-90.  Most concerning is the representation that there would be “No Board 
meeting.”  The Commission did, in fact, hold a meeting.  It purportedly met in executive session 
to conduct interviews.  The Commission should have posted proper notice of this meeting, 
reflecting that the body first would convene in open session and then would vote to enter 
executive session.  As the Commission failed to notice that it would meet in open session prior to 
convening in executive session, it violated the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2015-87. 
 
Notice of the September 28 meeting is also insufficient because it fails to describe the 
purpose of the executive session.  Executive session topics must be described, both in the 
meeting notice and in an announcement during open session prior to convening in executive 
session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive 
session was called.  In failing to properly post notice of the September 28 meeting, the 
Commission violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Although not rai
 sed by the complainant, we note two additional concerns.  First, even if 
proper notice had been posted, it would not have been appropriate for the Commission to 
conduct interviews of candidates for Conservation Director in executive session.  A public body 
may enter a closed, executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes.  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a).  
Among the ten purposes for executive session is Purpose 8, to “consider or interview applicants 
for employment or appointment by a preliminary screening committee if the chair declares that 
an open meeting will have a detrimental effect in obtaining qualified applicants; provided, 
however, that this clause shall not apply to any meeting, including meetings of a preliminary 
screening committee, to consider and interview applicants who have passed a prior preliminary 
screening.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(8).  Only a screening committee which includes less than a 
quorum of members of the public body that created the screening committee may meet in 
executive session under Purpose 8.  See OML 2024-9; OML 2021-70; OML 2019-100.  Because 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
we understand the full Commission, or a quorum thereof, conducted the interviews on September 
28, an executive session would not have been lawful in any event.   
 
Second, we note our concern about the location of the Commission’s notice posting.  The 
Att
orney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations allow the Chief Executive Officer of a 
municipality to adopt the municipality’s website as the official posting location for meeting 
notices.  See 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b).  The Town of Georgetown has adopted its municipal 
website,  https://www.georgetownma.gov/, as its official posting location.  Noti ces of the 
Commission’s meetings are accessible at two different locations within the municipality’s 
website: the Commission’s page (https://www.georgetownma.gov/node/29/agenda) and the 
town-wide calendar (https://www.georgetownma.gov/calendar).  Unfortunately, there are 
inconsistencies between these two sources.  For example, the Commission’s page does not 
include a notice for any meeting in September.  However, the calendar reflects meetings on 
September 14 (with link to notice), September 21 (with link to notice) and September 28 (no 
notice).  Although we do not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law on this point, we 
recommend that the Commission either keep its page updated to include a listing of all meeting 
dates with links to all notices or otherwise link directly to the town calendar to ensure 
consistency, or limit its posting of notices to the town calendar.  
 
II. Minutes of open session meetings were not approved in a timely manner.  
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to create 
and approve minutes of open sessions in a timely manner.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  “Timely 
manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is 
later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.”  940 CMR 29.11; see OML 
2018-48.  Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next 
meeting.  See OML 2018-67; OML 2017-133.  
 
At the time that Mr. Wood filed his complaint, minutes of at least three open session 
meetings (June 15, July 20, and September 21) were not created and approved within the later of 
the Commission’s next three meetings or 30 days, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  
Seemingly unaware of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law, the Commission in its 
December 28 response does not dispute that the minutes remain outstanding but somewhat 
casually responds that until a person is hired to take minutes, “minutes will be posted in a 
reasonable time frame.”  It is not within a public body’s discretion to follow what it deems a 
reasonable time frame.  The Open Meeting Law regulations establish a date certain by which 
minutes of an open session must be created and approved, unless the body can show good cause 
for delay.  This deadline (the later of 30 days or the public body’s next three meetings) is easily 
calculated and may not be substituted with a “reasonable time frame” at the public body’s 
convenience.  Finally, the Commission has not demonstrated good cause for failure to meet the 
deadline.  Its stated plan to hire someone to prepare minutes suggests that currently there is no 
individual tasked with this responsibility.  However, staffing shortages of the type that all 
governmental bodies with limited resources experience, including periodic staff vacancies, do 
not constitute good cause for failing to approve minutes in a timely manner.   See OML 2023-
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
179; OML 2022-50.  Public body members themselves must take on the responsibility of 
preparing minutes if necessary. See OML 2023-117; OML 2023-4; OML 2018-105; OML 2015-
86.  Ultimately, the duty to comply with the deadline to approve meeting minutes rests with 
public bodies, not with administrative staff or other public employees. See OML 2023-117; 
OML 2018-105.  Therefore, we find that the Commission did not have good cause for its delay 
in approving meeting minutes and the Commission is in violation of the Open Meeting Law for 
failure to timely create and approve minutes of at least three meetings.   
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violat ed the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to approve meeting minutes in a timely manner and by failing to post sufficiently 
specific notice of meetings.  We order the Commission to create and approve all outstanding 
open session meeting minutes within 60 days of the date of this letter, and to certify to our office 
that it has done so.  In addition, we noted many other compliance concerns that were not 
expressly raised in the complaint.  Therefore, we further order all members of the Board to attend 
an Open Meeting Law training webinar provided by our office within 90 days of the date of this 
letter, and to certify to our office that they have done so.
7  Finally, we order the Commission’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  We caution that a future finding 
that the Commission has violated the Open Meeting Law in any of the manners addressed herein 
may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law and may result in a civil penalty of up to 
$1,000 per violation.   
  
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  Please 
feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.  
 
Sincerely,  
   
Matt
hew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
  
cc: Kevin Wood (via e- mail:   
 Georgetown Town Clerk (via e- mail: kmcmanus@georgetownma.gov) 
  
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
 
7 Information on upcoming webinars is available on the Attorney General's website, https://wwwmass.gov/service- 
details/open-meeting-law-trainings. 
