===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
March 30, 2022 
 
OML 2022 – 60  
 
    
BY EMAIL 
 
Dr. Christopher Casavant  
Secretary, Narragansett Regional School District School Committee 
Superintendent, Narragansett Regional School District 
462 Baldwinville Road,  
Baldwinville, MA 01436  
 
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Dr. Casavant: 
 
This office received a complaint from Gerhard Fandreyer on October 4, 2021, alleging 
that the Narragansett Regional School District Regional Agreement Amendment Committee (the 
“Regional Agreement Amendment Committee” or “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on August 
16, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated August 24.1  The complaint 
alleges that meeting information for the Committee’s meetings, and in particular the 
Committee’s July 26 meeting, is not sent out until the day of the meeting rather than 48 hours in 
advance, and that it is unclear where meetings are posted for public viewing.   
 
After reviewing this matter, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Committee, the 
Committee’s response, and the complaint filed with our office for review.  We also reviewed 
several emails regarding Committee meetings that the Complainant received and provided to our 
office, as well as meeting notices posted to the Narragansett Regional School District’s website.  
 
The Open Meeting Law applies to meetings of public bodies.  A “public body” is defined 
as a multiple-member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, 
appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  
The Law further clarifies that “a subcommittee shall include any multiple-member body created 
to advise or make recommendations to a public body.” 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, and include the date, time and place of the meeting, and a listing of topics 
that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  In 
addition, “[t]he date and time that a meeting notice is posted shall be conspicuously recorded 
thereon or therewith.”  940 CMR 29.03(1)(d).  For meetings of a regional or district public body, 
notice shall be filed and posted in each city or town within the region or district in the manner 
prescribed for local public bodies.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c).  Alternatively, a regional or district 
public body may, by majority vote, adopt the regional or district public body's website as its 
official notice posting method.  940 CMR 29.03(3).  If a regional or district public body adopts a 
website as the alternative posting method, the public body must notify the Attorney General of 
adoption of the alternative method, including the website address where notices will be posted, 
and the most current notice posting method on file with the Attorney General must consistently 
be used.  The Attorney General maintains a publicly available spreadsheet listing the websites 
used by public bodies that have notified the Attorney General of adoption of an alternative 
posting method.2 
 
The Regional Agreement Amendment Committee is an advisory committee to the 
Narragansett Regional School District School Committee; for purposes of the Open Meeting 
Law, it is a subcommittee of the School Committee.  The Attorney General’s records show that 
on April 4, 2013, the Narragansett Regional School District School Committee notified the 
Attorney General that it had adopted its website, http://www.nrsd.org, as its official notice 
posting method.  As a subcommittee of the School Committee, the Regional Agreement 
Amendment Committee was not required to separately vote to adopt the website as its official 
notice posting method and to notify the Attorney General; we consider a public body’s adoption 
of a website as its official notice posting method to apply to all its subcommittees, even those 
later created.  The Committee asserts, and we find, that all notices of Committee meetings were 
posted online and accessible from the website http://www.nrsd.org.  In particular, we find that 
notice of the Committee’s July 26 meeting was posted online on July 19 at 12:10 PM, more than 
48 hours in advance of the meeting.  We also find that the meeting notice included clear 
information on how to access the meeting, including a Zoom link to join the meeting along with 
links to view the meeting live on YouTube via Templeton Community TV as well as 
livestreamed on Facebook.  Therefore, we find that the Committee properly posted notice of its 
July 26 meeting, in compliance with the Open Meeting Law.   
 
To the extent the complaint alleges as a separate violation that the Committee failed to 
send meeting materials to interested recipients until the day of the meeting, this allegation, even 
if true, would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law and we decline to review it.  
The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body include supporting documents or a 
“meeting packet” along with a meeting notice nor that it post or provide such documents to 
 
2 The spreadsheet is available on the Attorney General’s website, https://www mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
members of the public in advance of a meeting.  See OML 2022-19; OML 2021-181; OML 
2020-140, n. 2.3 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
cc: Gerhard Fandreyer (via e-mail:  
Margaret Hughes, Chair, Narragansett Regional School District School Committee (via 
email:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 Previous Open Meeting Law determinations are available on the Attorney General’s website, 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
