===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 1, 2018 
OML 2018-116 
Bruce A. Assad, Esq. 
Law Office of Bruce A. Assad 
16 Bedford Street, Suite 3A 
Fall River, MA 02722 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Assad: 
This office received four related complaints from Collin Dias alleging that the Fall River 
School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The first complaint was filed with the Committee on March 14, and, after an extension of time 
was granted by our office, the Committee responded by letter on April 17.1 This complaint was 
then filed with our office on April 17. The second complaint was filed with the Committee on 
April 4, and the Committee responded by letter on April 25. This complaint was filed with our 
office on June 8. The third complaint was filed with the Committee on April 9, and the fourth 
complaint was filed with the Committee on April 30. The Committee responded to the third and 
fourth complaints on May 18, and the complainant filed those complaints with our office on June 
8. In his complaints, Mr. Dias alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) 
failing to provide sufficient detail about a meeting location, (ii) failing to permit his comment 
during an open meeting, (iii) failing to list documents or exhibits used during a meeting in the 
meeting minutes, (iv) convening an executive session to discuss an Open Meeting Law 
complaint without inviting the complainant, and (v) discussing a topic in executive session that 
was not listed on the meeting notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the complaints, the Committee's responses, and the 
requests for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice of a Committee 
meeting held on March 12, along with a sign-in sheet used by the Committee during that same 
meeting. We also reviewed the minutes of an executive session held by the Committee on April 
9. Finally, we spoke with the Committee's legal counsel by telephone on July 11, and we spoke 
with the complainant by telephone on July 17.2 
1 Unless otherwise mdicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee utilizes sign-up sheets for its meetings on 
which members of the public interested in addressing the Committee during its public comment 
period may identify themselves. The Committee posted notice of a meeting to be held on March 
12. The notice listed the meeting location as the "Morton Middle School Auditorium" and also 
listed the street address of the building. 
On March 12, the complainant arrived at the appropriate building but had difficulty 
finding the meeting room. A security officer, David LePage, was on duty that day. The 
complainant acknowledges that he saw Mr. LePage when he entered the building for the March 
12 meeting but did not ask for directions to the meeting room. When the complainant finally 
found the meeting room, the meeting had begun, and the complainant did not request to add his 
name to the sign-up sheet. During the meeting, the complainant observed the Committee chair. 
Mayor Jasiel Correia, looking at his cellular phone. The complainant recorded Mayor Correia 
looking at his phone, and the complainant alleges that, in response. Mayor Correia pointed his 
phone at the complainant and took a video. During the public comment period, one individual 
who had put his name on the sign-up sheet was recognized to speak. The Committee did not 
inquire whether other individuals present wished to speak during public comment, nor did the 
complainant seek to make himself laiown to the chair. 
After the first two complaints were filed, the Committee met to review them on April 9. 
The notice listed two topics to be discussed in executive session: 
M.G.L. Chapter 30A Section 21(a)(1): To Review the Open Meeting Law Complaint 
dated March 14, 2018, filed by Collin Bias regarding the location of the March 12, 2018, 
School Committee meeting and the listing of topics for discussion at the meeting. 
M.G.L. Chapter 30A Section 21(a)(1): To Review the Open Meeting Law Complaint 
dated April 4, 2018, filed by Collin Dias regarding the minutes of the March 12, 2018 
Fall River School Committee and the legality of taking photographs at the Fall River 
School Committee meeting of March 12, 2018. 
The complainant was not individually notified of the April 9 meeting, nor was he invited 
to attend the executive session. The relevant portion of the April 9 executive session minutes 
have been released. The minutes show that the Committee did not discuss the substance of the 
complaints, and rather delegated the task of responding to the Committee's legal counsel. 
Following the April 9 meeting, the Committee's legal counsel investigated the merits of 
the complaints' allegations. In part, he spoke with Mr. LePage to ensure that Mr. LePage was on 
duty on March 12 and was available to offer directions to the meeting room. When the 
Committee responded to the first two complaints, the response included a letter from Mr. 
LePage. This letter stated, in part, "I have recently been informed that I have been accused of 
not showing up for an assignment on Monday, March 12 of 2018... I, without question, was at 
my post for the entirety of the meeting." 
2 
===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION 
I. The Committee's March 12 Meeting was Sufficiently Open. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that "all meetings of a public body shall be open to the 
public." G.L. c. 30A §20(a). Access must include the opportunity to be physically present as 
well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 
2017-40. 
The complaints allege that the Committee's March 12 meeting was not open to the 
public, because the meeting room was difficult to locate. We have stated in past determinations 
that members of the public should not have to guess where in a building a meeting is being held. 
See OML 2017-179; OML 2014-21. However, here, the meeting notice clearly stated the 
meeting room. While our office's guidance is that public bodies should make every effort to 
direct members of the public to meeting rooms, the Open Meeting Law does not require public 
bodies to post signage or take other specific measures. We note that the Committee had a 
security officer present who was willing to offer directions to the meeting room, and it appears 
that the complainant did not ask for directions to the meeting room. The complainant stated to 
our office that it was not apparent that the security officer could provide directions, and we credit 
this statement. Nevertheless, the Committee made resources available to direct members of the 
public to the meeting room. We find no violation with respect to this allegation. 
II. The Committee Did Not Prevent the Complainant from Speaking During the March 
12 Meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law states that "[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body 
without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent." G.L. 
c. 3OA, § 20(f). Therefore, we have stated that the chair of a public body may determine, at his 
or her discretion, whether members of the public may participate during an open session, and 
what form that participation may take. See OML 2016-51; OML 2015-12. 
Here, the complaints allege that the Committee should have permitted the complainant to 
speak during the public comment period. The Committee's procedure for public comment— 
asking members of the public to identify themselves on a sign-up sheet—is a permissible 
exercise of the chair's discretion to set the terms of public comment. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). While 
the Committee did not solicit comment from people who were not on the sign-up sheet, nor did 
the complainant make an effort to identify himself to the chair. Furthermore, although the 
Attorney General encourages public bodies to provide reasonable opportunities for public 
comment during meetings, the Open Meeting Law does not require that public comment be 
allowed. See OML 2016-51; OML 2015-12. We find no error in how the Committee handled 
public comment during the March 12 meeting. 
III. Because Any Photo Taken During the March 12 Meeting Was Not Used by the 
Committee, It Did Not Need to be Listed in the Meeting Minutes. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Minutes should contain enough detail and 
3 
===PAGE 4===
accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes 
and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. Meeting 
minutes must also contain "a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting." G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a). All documents and exhibits used by a public body during an open meeting "shall 
be public records in their entirety." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e). The Attorney General's Office 
considers a document to be "used" at a meeting when it is, at a minimum, physically present, 
verbally identified, and its contents are discussed by members of the public body during an open 
session. See OML 2012-42; OML 2011-18. 
The complaint alleges that Mayor Correia took a photograph of the complainant on his 
phone during the March 12 meeting, and that the Committee should have listed that photograph 
in the minutes as a document or exhibit that was used during the meeting. We make no finding 
regarding whether Mayor Correia indeed took a photo during the meeting. Even if he did, it is 
clear that any such photograph was not "used at the meeting" for the purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law. Even if a photo was present in the sense that it was on a cellular phone, it was not 
verbally identified during the meeting, and it was not discussed by members of the public body. 
We therefore find that any photo that may or may not have been taken was not used during the 
March 12 meeting and did not need to be listed in the meeting minutes. 
IV. The Committee Was Not Required to Invite the Complainant to the March 9 
Executive Session. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be open to members of 
the public, unless the public body convenes in executive session. See G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 20(a)-(b), 
21. A public body may enter executive session for one or more of ten enumerated purposes. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Among the ten enumerated purposes for executive session is Purpose 1, 
which allows a public body to enter executive session to "discuss the discipline or dismissal of, 
or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or 
individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The individual to be discussed in such an executive session 
must be notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive 
session. Id. The individual must also be afforded the right to be present during deliberations that 
involve that individual, the right to speak on his or her own behalf, the right to have counsel 
present to advise but not participate, and the right to have an independent record of the meeting 
made at the individual's own expense. Id. 
The complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
invite the complainant to discuss his complaint during the March 9 executive session. This 
argument misunderstands the law. Under Purpose 1, the individual who is the subject of the 
complaint that will be discussed has a right to be notified and to be present. G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(1). When an Open Meeting Law complaint is filed with a public body, it is the public 
body members themselves, not the complainant, who are the subjects of the complaint. The 
body, therefore, has no obligation under the Open Meeting Law to include a complainant in the 
executive session discussion of an Open Meeting Law complaint. We find no violation with 
respect to this allegation. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
V. The Committee Did Not Discuss Mr. LePage in Executive Session. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that "a public body shall post notice of every meeting at 
least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays... Notice 
shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time, and 
place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Topics must be listed with "sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 
CMR 29.03. In general, this level of detail must be included for both open session and 
executive session topics. See OML 2011-53.3 
The complaints allege that the Committee discussed Mr. LePage during the April 9 
executive session without listing him on the meeting notice. Our review of the April 9 meeting 
minutes showed that no such discussion took place. Rather, the Committee delegated to its legal 
counsel the task of responding to the complaints. As part of what the Committee's counsel 
described to our office as "due diligence," he contacted Mr. LePage, and Mr. LePage wrote a 
letter stating that he was on duty on March 12. The Committee did not discuss any topics during 
the April 9 executive session other than those listed on the meeting notice, and we therefore find 
no violation. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider each of the complaints addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you 
have any questions. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Collin Dias 
Fall River School Committee 
3 To the extent that the complaint alleges that the April 9 meeting notice misstates the nature of the complaints 
("... regarding the location of the March 12, 2018, School Committee meeting and the listing of topics for discussion 
at the meeting"), we note that this would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law, even if true. 
5 
===PAGE 6===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain Judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
6 