===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL ONE ASHBURTON PLACE BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108  (617) 727-2200  (617) 727-4765 TTY  www.mass.gov/ago 
1  
 March 31, 2020         OML 2020 – 47  VIA EMAIL ONLY  Nina Pickering-Cook, Esq. Anderson & Kreiger LLP pickering@andersonkreiger.com    RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  Dear Attorney Pickering-Cook: This office received a complaint from Steven Ballard on September 261, alleging that the Acton Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) as well as individual Board members Peter Berry, Dean Charter, Joan Gardner, and Jon Benson violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board July 1, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated July 19. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 1) convening an emergency meeting without having a legitimate emergency sufficient to justify posting notice less than 48 hours before the meeting; 2) posting notice for the emergency meeting “without stating the alleged emergency justifying [the] late notice”; 3) failing to include on the notice that an open session would convene ahead of the executive session; 4) holding the emergency meeting “far from the Town of Acton” and at a location that was “not a publicly accessible place for an open meeting”; and 5) failing to first convene in open session and follow “other parts of the proper protocol for entering and exiting executive session.” Additionally, the Complainant alleges that these violations were intentional.       Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include “open session” as a topic on the notice for its June 28 emergency meeting. We find that the Board did not violate the Law in any of the other ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, the notice and open session minutes for the Board’s June 28 meeting, and the docket for Boutet et al. v. Board of Selectmen for the Town of Acton, Middlesex                                                              1 All dates are in 2019, unless otherwise stated.  
===PAGE 2===
2   
Superior Court Docket No. 1981-01269. We also communicated with the Complainant, counsel for the Board2, and the Middlesex Superior Courthouse Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Coordinator.  FACTS We find the facts as follows. The Complainant, as counsel for three individuals, filed a lawsuit in Middlesex Superior Court, Boutet et al. v. Board of Selectmen for the Town of Acton, alleging that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.3 On June 26, the court held a hearing in the action. During the June 26 hearing, the presiding justice announced that an additional day of hearing would be scheduled for June 28 at 8:30 a.m. The Board did not anticipate that an additional day of hearing would be scheduled. On June 27, the Complainant, as counsel for the plaintiffs in the lawsuit, proffered a settlement offer to the Board.  The next available time for the Board to meet to discuss the Complainant’s settlement offer was the next morning, June 28. Because the decision of whether to accept the Complainant’s settlement offer would affect whether the June 28 hearing was necessary, the Board determined that it needed to meet the morning of the hearing at the courthouse in order to consider the Complainant’s settlement offer. Accordingly, on June 27 at 6:15 p.m., the Board posted notice for an emergency meeting to take place on June 28 at 8:30 a.m. on the fourth floor of the Middlesex Superior Courthouse in Woburn, Massachusetts. The notice included one topic which read as follows:  Executive Session There will be a need for an emergency executive session to discuss strategy with respect to the lawsuit, Boutet, et al. v. BOS of Town of Acton, Middlesex Super. Ct. No. 1981cv1269, regarding an Open Meeting Law complaint over the consideration of D. Factor for Planning Board, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the public body.  This meeting is an emergency meeting which could not be scheduled with at least 48 hours’ notice because it concerns the Town’s litigation strategy with respect to and in light of a hearing in the Boutet, et al. case which was scheduled with fewer than 48 hours’ notice. The notice did not include “open session” as a topic.   On the morning of June 28, the Board and its counsel appeared for the scheduled hearing and requested a short recess from the hearing so that the Board could meet to discuss the Complainant’s settlement offer. The presiding justice granted this request and the Board convened its meeting in open session at 8:50 a.m. During the open session portion of the Board’s                                                              2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person going forward. 3 The lawsuit alleged that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a properly noticed meeting through serial communication, and by noticing a topic as a consent agenda item when the Chair knew the item would be held for discussion. The Board admitted to these violations of the Open Meeting Law, leaving the court to decide only whether the violations were intentional, as the plaintiffs alleged, and whether the Board had “cured” the violations. The court found that the Board did not intentionally violate the Open Meeting Law and that it had publicly admitted and cured the violations before the lawsuit was filed. Boutet et al. v. Acton Board of Selectmen, 2020 WL 949914 (Middlesex Super. Ct. Feb. 18, 2020). 
===PAGE 3===
3   
meeting, the Chair announced that the meeting was an emergency meeting convened to discuss litigation strategy with respect to the Boutet case and explained that the June 28 court hearing was scheduled on June 26 at 1:15 p.m. The Chair then announced that she would entertain a motion to enter into executive session to discuss litigation strategy with respect to the Boutet case. A Board member moved to enter into executive session for the purpose announced by the Chair, and the Board voted affirmatively by roll call to enter into executive session. After the vote was taken, the Chair announced that the Board would enter into executive session to discuss litigation strategy with respect to the Boutet case because an open session may have a detrimental effect on the Board’s litigating position, and that the Board would reconvene in open session only to adjourn the meeting.   The Middlesex Superior Courthouse is located at 200 Tradecenter Drive in Woburn, approximately 20 miles from Acton Town Hall, where the Board regularly holds its meetings. The court’s website represents that the courthouse is accessible to individuals with disabilities. Additionally, the court’s ADA Coordinator stated that the courthouse has two elevators that reach the fourth floor and are operable without assistance, and that the courtrooms and conference rooms in the courthouse are accessible to individuals with disabilities.     DISCUSSION  The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). An “emergency” is defined as “a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding immediate action.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The burden of justifying the need for an emergency meeting lies with the public body. See OML 2012-7; OML 2010-6.4 A public body must post notice for an emergency meeting as soon as is reasonably possible before the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meeting notices contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. Id. When the only business to be discussed during an open session is the procedural requirements for entering executive session, public bodies must list “open session” on the meeting notice, as this is the only means by which members of the public are informed that a public body will, in fact, hold an open meeting that they are permitted to attend. See OML 2013-9; OML 2012-68. Without such notice, members of the public are essentially denied the opportunity to attend and learn the reasons for the executive session. See OML 2013-195.  When meeting in executive session under Purpose 3, to discuss strategy with respect to litigation, the executive session topic must be described, both in the meeting notice and in the announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); OML 2015-121. This generally means that the announcement before entering into executive session under Purpose 3, in addition to the meeting notice, must identify the litigation matter to be discussed, if doing so will not compromise the executive session purpose. See OML 2016-152. Additionally, the chair must declare that having the discussion in open session may have a detrimental effect                                                              4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4   
on the public body’s litigating position, G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3), and must announce whether the public body will reconvene in open session at the conclusion of the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(4).  Finally, the Open Meeting Law requires that all open sessions of public bodies, including open sessions convened solely for the purpose of taking the proper procedural steps for entering into executive session, be open and accessible to members of the public. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(b)(1); OML 2016 - 127. Access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2017-135; OML 2015-38; OML 2014-3; OML 2013-189. For a meeting to be truly “open to the public,” it must be held at a location that is accessible to persons with disabilities. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); OML 2013-8; OML 2012-49 (stating that meetings of public bodies must be held in locations that are compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act); OML 2016-14.  1. The Board’s June 28 Emergency Meeting Was Held in Compliance With the Open Meeting Law.   The complaint alleges that the Board held an improper emergency executive session meeting on June 28. The Board responds that the emergency executive session was justified because the Board needed to discuss the Complainant’s settlement offer, proffered on June 27, before the court hearing scheduled for June 28. Emergency meetings are reserved for circumstances that are unanticipated and require an immediate response. See OML 2016-70; OML 2011-45. The settlement offer proffered by the Complainant on June 27 was unexpected and required immediate consideration and response in light of the court hearing scheduled for the next day.  The Complainant suggests that the settlement offer was not unexpected because he and the Board had engaged in ongoing settlement discussions. Although the Complainant and the Board may have engaged in settlement discussions throughout the course of the litigation, the Board could not have anticipated the precise timing of the Complainant’s settlement offer, nor could it have anticipated that the court would schedule an additional hearing during the June 26 hearing to be held two days later. Therefore, the June 27 settlement offer was unanticipated with regard to its specifics, its timing, and the need to discuss it in light of the June 28 hearing. Likewise, the settlement offer required an immediate response, as the decision of whether or not to accept the offer impacted the need to move forward with the June 28 court hearing. Therefore, we conclude that the nature of the topic of discussion justified holding an emergency meeting, posted with less than 48 hours’ notice. See OML 2017-128 (Finding that an emergency meeting was justified when the Board of Selectmen met to issue a one-day liquor license after a wedding reception had to be relocated from a private residence to a municipal property); OML 2017-131 (the unexpected cancellation of two meetings due to inclement weather required the Board to take immediate action and justified an emergency meeting even though the Board had been aware of the issue for some time); contrast OML 2015-85 (where the housing authority had notice of bids made on houses it had listed for sale five days prior to the meeting, it could not rely on the emergency exception to the notice posting requirement to justify posting late notice).    
===PAGE 5===
5   
2. The Board Failed to Include “Open Session” as a Topic on Its June 28 Meeting Notice. The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting notice for an emergency meeting “without stating the alleged emergency justifying [the] late notice,” and failing to include “open session” as a topic on the notice. First, the notice clearly stated the emergency purpose for the meeting. As to the second matter, when the only business to be discussed during an open session is the procedural requirements for entering executive session, public bodies must list “open session” on the meeting notice. The Board has already acknowledged in its response to the complaint that in its haste to post the notice for the June 28 emergency meeting it mistakenly failed to include “open session” as a topic on the notice.  Next, we must determine whether this violation was intentional, as the Complainant alleges. We find that it was not. An intentional violation is “an act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of the open meeting law.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  Evidence of an intentional violation ... shall include, but not be limited to, that the public body or public body member: (a) acted with specific intent to violate the law; (b) acted with deliberate ignorance of the law's requirements; or (c) was previously informed by receipt of a decision from a court of competent jurisdiction or advised by the Attorney General, pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07 or 940 CMR 29.08, that the conduct violates [the Law], Where a public body or public body member has made a good faith attempt at compliance with the law, but was reasonably mistaken about its requirements, such conduct will not be considered an intentional violation. 940 CMR 29.02. The Board has explained that in its rush to post notice the evening before the emergency meeting to be held on June 28, it forgot to include “open session” as a topic on the notice. We find no evidence that the Board acted with intent to violate the Law, or with deliberate ignorance of the law’s requirements. Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body's account of the facts. See OML 2019-73; OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141. Therefore, we find that the Board did not act with intent to violate the Law when it neglected to include “open session” on the notice for its June 28 emergency meeting.  3. The Board Took the Proper Procedural Steps When Entering Into Executive Session.  The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to first convene in open session and failing to follow “other parts of the proper protocol for entering and exiting executive session.” In its response, the Board argues that our office should decline to review this allegation, as it lacks specificity and our office does not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations. See OML 2012-106. Although the complaint fails to identify any particular procedural steps that the Board allegedly omitted, we conclude from our review of the Board’s open session meeting minutes that the Board followed the necessary steps to convene in executive session under Purpose 3. Specifically, the Board convened first in open session; the Chair announced the purpose for the executive session, including the litigation matter to be discussed; a member of the Board moved to enter into executive session for the purpose announced; the Board voted by roll call to enter into executive session; the Chair declared that holding the discussion in open session may have a detrimental 
===PAGE 6===
6   
effect on its litigating position; and, finally, the Chair announced that the Board would reconvene in open session only to adjourn the meeting. 4. The Board’s June 28 Emergency Meeting Was Accessible.  The complaint alleges that the Board’s June 28 meeting was inaccessible to the public because it was “far from the Town of Acton, in the [Middlesex Superior Courthouse] on ‘the fourth floor’ which is not a publicly accessible place for an open meeting . . ..” Aside from the requirement that meetings be held at locations that are accessible to the public, the Law does not specify where a public body must hold its meetings. That the Board’s June 28 meeting was held at a location outside the Board’s physical jurisdiction does not inherently mean that the meeting was inaccessible, or held in violation of the Open Meeting Law. Although a public body may not hold meetings in distant locations for the purpose of discouraging public attendance, we find that in this instance the Board had good reason for convening its meeting at the Middlesex Superior Courthouse. Specifically, the Board needed to meet to discuss the Complainant’s settlement offer before the June 28 court hearing, which was scheduled on short notice for first thing in the morning. The first opportunity available for the Board to meet was when its members were in attendance at the Middlesex Superior Courthouse for the June 28 hearing.   Finally, we address whether, for purposes of complying with the Open Meeting Law, the fourth floor of the Middlesex Superior Courthouse is accessible to the public, including individuals with disabilities. We note first that the complaint does not allege that the Complainant or any specific member of the public could not access the Board’s June 28 meeting. We understand from the court’s ADA Coordinator that the courthouse is accessible to the public, including individuals with disabilities. Specifically, the courthouse has two elevators that are operable without assistance and that reach the fourth floor. Furthermore, the courtrooms and conference rooms of the courthouse are accessible to individuals with disabilities. We credit the ADA Coordinator’s representations, and find no evidence that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by holding a meeting on June 28 at a location that was not ADA compliant. See OML 2012-49; compare OML 2013-8 (finding that the Open Meeting Law requires that “[p]ublic bodies . . . assure independent physical access to their meetings . . ..”).  CONCLUSION For the reasons stated above, we find the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include “open session” as a topic on the notice for its June 28 emergency meeting. We find that the Board did not violate the Law in the other ways alleged. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar violations in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. 940 CMR 29.02.   We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.      
===PAGE 7===
7 
  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Acton Board of Selectmen (via e-mail: bos@actonma.gov) 
 Steven Ballard (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
