===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 25, 2018 
OML 2018-60 
Katherine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan on December 13, alleging that 
the Ashland Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, 
§§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about November 28, and 
you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, in a letter dated December 13. In his 
complaint, Mr. Morgan alleges that a topic listed on the Board's November 14 meeting notice 
lacked sufficient detail. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
manner alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. 
We also reviewed the notice and minutes of the Board's November 14 meeting. 
We find the facts as follows. The Town had received a Massworks Grant for 
infrastructure projects ranging from street reconstruction to trail improvements which would 
impact two development projects near the MBTA access road led by Campanelli and 
Fhorndike Development Corporation and also Megunko. A contract between the Town, 
Campanelli and Thorndike and the state ensured that the Board held certain control over grant 
funds to mitigate for project impacts. 
During its November 14 meeting, the Board reviewed a request to temporarily transfer 
monetary funds from one account established for the Campanelli and Thorndike development 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise specified. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
development project, to another account established for the MBTA access road project. The 
Board listed this topic on its meeting notice as follows: "Amend the agreement with 
Campanelli and Thorndike." During the meeting, the Board voted "to repuipose the $400k 
from Campanelli Thorndike I & I payment to the MBTA Access Road Construction 
contingent on when the Town receives payment from the landowner [Megunko] the money is 
replaced." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body must post notice of every meeting at 
least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). Notices must include "a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." Id The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We 
generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could 
read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See 
OML 2015-35.2 
The complaint alleges that the topic, "Amend the agreement with Campanelli and 
Thorndike," listed on the Board's November 14 meeting notice lacked sufficient detail. We 
agree and conclude that, although the topic correctly identified general details about the 
Board's anticipated discussion, including the name of the contractual party involved, it should 
have also included details about the specific nature of the anticipated discussion (i.e., a 
temporary transfer of funds relating to the MBTA access road development project). Indeed, 
the Board need not list each and every detail about a topic in order to comply with the law's 
requirements. See OML 2018-38; OML 2014-122. However, in this instance, even a 
member of the public who was familiar with the Campanelli and Thorndike project would not 
understand the specific nature of the anticipated discussion from reading the topic. 
Accordingly, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to provide the public with a 
sufficient understanding of the anticipated discussion. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to include sufficient detail on its November 14 meeting notice. We order the 
Board's immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that 
similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
the Board, Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Stephen Morgan 
Ashland Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 