===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 3, 2025 
 
OML 2025-206 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Ivria Glass Fried, Esq. 
Harrington Heep 
40 Grove Street, Suite 190 
Wellesley, MA 02482 
 
ifried@harringtonheep.com
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Fried: 
 
This office received a complaint from Russell Williston on August 16, 2025, alleging that 
the Lancaster Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 16, and you responded on behalf 
of the Board by letter dated August 4.
1  In his complaint, Mr. Williston alleges that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law (1) by failing to review the minutes of executive sessions at 
reasonable intervals to determine whether continued non-disclosure was warranted and (2) by 
failing to review executive session minutes in response to a request for same. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to review executive session minutes at reasonable intervals.  We decline to review the remaining 
allegation.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response, and the request for further review filed with our office. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978); see also OML 2023-56.2  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that a public body or its chair or designee, at reasonable intervals, review the minutes of 
executive sessions to determine if continued nondisclosure of those minutes is warranted.  G.L. 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2025. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website,  https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
c. 30A, § 22(g)(1).  At the meeting following each periodic review, the public body must 
announce which executive session minutes will be released and which will continue to be 
withheld, and such announcement must be included in the minutes.  Id.   See also OML 2022-
155.  A public body’s obligation to review executive session minutes for possible release is 
ongoing.  If a public body reviews executive session minutes and determines that the purpose for 
the executive session remains such that the minutes should continue to be withheld from the 
public, it must continue to review those same executive session minutes at reasonable intervals 
until it determines that the reason for secrecy has expired.  See OML 2022-155; OML 2021-129.  
Although “reasonable interval” is not defined by the Law, our office has found a quarterly 
review or a review every six months to be appropriate.  See OML 2025-63; OML 2020-101; 
OML 2017-104. 
 
Additionally, a public body must respond to a request for executive session minutes 
within 10 days.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2).  If the public body or a designee has determined, prior 
to receipt of the request, that certain executive session minutes may be released, it should 
respond to the requester directly, notifying them of the availability of those minutes.  See OML 
2023-53; OML 2022-155.  And if, at the time of a request, the public body has not conducted a 
review of the minutes to determine whether continued nondisclosure is warranted, the body must 
perform such a review and release the minutes, if appropriate, no later than its next meeting or 
within 30 days, whichever occurs first.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2).   
 
Here, the Board acknowledges that it has failed to review the minutes of executive 
sessions at reasonable intervals to determine whether continued non-disclosure is warranted.  We 
find that in failing to perform the required review of executive session minutes, the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law.   
 
Having found a violation, we must determine whether the Board’s violation was, as the 
complainant urges, an intentional one.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an 
“act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open 
Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 29.02.  An intentional violation may be found where the public body 
acted with deliberate ignorance of the Law’s requirement or has previously been advised that 
certain conduct violates the Open Meeting Law.  Id.  The complainant argues that our office 
warned the Board against the type of violation at issue here in a prior determination.  See OML 
2021-188.  However, although executive session minutes were a subject of that determination, 
the requirement to review them at reasonable intervals was not.  The complainant also alleges 
that he alerted the Board that “the law required a two-stage review within 30 days” in an email 
sent to the Board on July 3, and that the Board “took no action” at its next meeting, held on July 
7.  Even if the July 3 email could be read to warn the Board of its failure to review executive 
session minutes at reasonable intervals, under the circumstances we do not impute any motive 
for failure to address a warning one business day after receiving it.  For these reasons, we decline 
to find the violation intentional. 
 
The complaint also alleges that the Board committed a separate violation of the Law by 
failing to review executive session minutes in response to his request for same.  A request for 
meeting minutes may fall under the Public Records Law or the Open Meeting Law, depending 
on how the request is made.  We have said that a request for meeting minutes that is directed to a 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
clerk or other employee as Records Access Officer will likely fall under the Public Records Law.  
See OML 2025-194; OML 2020-14; OML Declination 8-20-20 (Wellfleet Selectboard); OML 
2019-126.  As the complainant’s request was directed to the town clerk only, without any 
indication that it was intended for the Board or any request that it be forwarded to the Board, we 
find that the request was made under the Public Records Law, not the Open Meeting Law.  See 
OML 2025-194.  The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law.  As this allegation falls outside the Open Meeting Law, we decline to review 
it. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it failed to review executive session minutes at reasonable intervals.  We acknowledge that 
the Board has committed to perform such reviews going forward, and that it also has undertaken 
the creation of missing executive session minutes.  To the extent that it has not already done so, 
we order the Board to create and approve accurate minutes of all executive session meetings that 
took place prior to the date the complaint was filed with the Board, July 16, through whatever 
means are available, including the memories and individual notations of the attendees.  
Furthermore, we order the Board to review for release all existing executive session minutes that 
have not been reviewed within the last six months and to announce the results of such review at 
its next open session meeting following the review, recording the results in the minutes of that 
meeting.   
 
Within 60 days of receipt of this letter, the Board shall certify to our office that it has 
complied with this order.  If it is not possible to create minutes for the subject executive sessions 
despite best efforts, then the Board must, within 60 days of receipt of this letter, explain to this 
office in writing what efforts were made to create the minutes.  Finally, we order the Board’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,  
  
  
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc:  John R. Woodsmall III, Lancaster Town Administrator, (via email: 
jwoodsmall@lancasterma.gov) 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Amanda J. Cannon, Lancaster Town Clerk (via email: acannon@lancasterma.gov) 
Russell Williston (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
