===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 5, 2013 
OML 2013-87 
Cyndy S. Taymore 
Superintendent of Schools 
360 Lynn Fells Parkway 
Melrose, MA 02176 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Superintendent Taymore: 
This office received a complaint from Carrie Kourkamelis, dated August 30, 2012, 
alleging that the Melrose School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Committee failed to timely 
list an anticipated executive session topic in the notice for its June 12, 2012 meeting, and failed 
to include sufficient detail about the purpose for that executive session. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Committee on or about July 10, 2012, The Committee responded to the 
complaint in a letter dated August 1, 2012. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
because the executive session topic discussed at the Committee's June 12, 2012 meeting was not 
reasonably anticipated by the Committee's Chair more than 48 hours in advance of the meeting, 
and because the Committee provided the public with sufficient detail about its purpose for 
entering executive session. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the July 10, 2012 
complaint filed with the Committee; the Committee's August 1, 2012 response; and the August 
30, 2012 complaint filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice for the June 12, 2012 
meeting, posted on June 7, 2012, and an amended notice, posted on June 11, 2012. We reviewed 
the minutes of the Committee's June 12, 2012 open and executive sessions. Finally, we 
reviewed emails sent on June 11, 2012 between Ms. Kourkoumelis and Committee Chair Kristin 
Thorp. 
FACTS 
On April 18, 2012, former Superintendent Joseph Casey began the process of hiring three 
new principals to fill vacancies created by departing administrators. During the week of June 4, 
2012, Superintend Casey identified three candidates to whom he wished to make offers. On 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 

===PAGE 2===
Friday, June 8, 2012, Superintendent Casey was informed that the Committee would need to 
approve the offers before they were made to the candidates. Superintendent Casey believed that 
he needed to move quickly to make the offers because at least two candidates were pursuing 
positions elsewhere. Because Committee Chair Kristin Thorp was out of town for the weekend. 
Superintendent Casey was not able to speak with her until Monday, June 11, 2012. At that time, 
he informed her that the Committee would need to approve the compensation and benefit levels 
in contracts being considered for prospective candidates for school principal. Fie asked her to 
include an executive session on the agenda for the meeting that was scheduled for the next day. 
The notice for the Committee's June 12, 2012 meeting had been posted on June 7, 2012, and did 
not include the executive session topic. Following this conversation, the Chair prepared a new 
notice, and the updated notice was posted in the late afternoon on Monday, June 11, 2012. The 
topic added to the notice was "Executive Session [t]o conduct strategy session in preparation for 
contract negotiations with three (3) principal candidates." Superintendent Casey emailed the 
Committee members on the afternoon of June 11, 2012 attaching the proposed offers and 
explaining the need for the executive session. 
On the afternoon of June 12, 2012, Ms. Kourkamelis, who is both the complainant and a 
member of the Committee, emailed Chair Thorp requesting that the executive session be 
postponed to provide 48 hours' notice to the public. Chair Thorp denied her request. During the 
meeting, Ms. Kourkamelis moved to postpone the executive session, but her motion failed when 
she did not receive a second. The Committee voted to enter executive session "to conduct 
strategy sessions in preparation of contract negotiations with potential Elementary principals, and 
not return to open session." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b), states in relevant part that, "[e]xcept in an 
emergency, in addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice 
of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays... Notice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the 
date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed at the meeting." Public bodies must list topics in a meeting notice with 
"sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). Finally, executive session topics listed on meeting notices 
must "state the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(b)(3); OML 2011-56; OML2011-54.1 
Chair Thorp only learned of the need for the Committee to discuss the contract offers on 
June 11, 2012 - fewer than 48 hours before the June 12, 2012 meeting. As soon as 
Superintendent Casey informed her of the need for the Committee's approval. Chair Thorp 
updated the meeting notice to add the new topic. Because Chair Thorp did not reasonably 
anticipate that the Committee would discuss the contract offers 48 hours before the June 12, 
2012 meeting, the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. While it is not unlawful 
for a public body to discuss an unnoticed, unanticipated topic, the Attorney General strongly 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 

===PAGE 3===
encourages public bodies to postpone discussion of items that do not require immediate action 
and that were not listed in a notice at least 48 hours before a meeting.  See OML 2013-13; OML 
2012-3.2 
The complaint also alleges that the Committee failed to notify the public that it would 
discuss administrator contracts in executive session. As discussed above, the Committee was not 
required to include the topic in its meeting notice because it was not reasonably anticipated by 
the Chair more than 48 hours before the June 12, 2012 meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). However, 
when entering executive session, the Chair must still "state the purpose for the executive session, 
stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the 
executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). During the Committee's June 12, 2012 
meeting, the Committee voted in open session to enter into executive session "to conduct 
strategy sessions in preparation of contract negotiations with potential Elementary principals, and 
not return to open session." This level of detail was sufficient to notify the public as to why the 
Committee entered into executive session. The Committee was not required to list the names of 
the three candidates, as the names were not public at that time and offers had not yet been made. 
Publicly stating the candidates' names before offers were made would have compromised the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. If you have any questions regarding this letter, please do not hesitate to contact 
our office at (617) 963-2540. 
2 See also the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law FAQ: Meeting Notices, available at 
hwww.mass.gov/ago/government-resources/open-meeting-law/oml-faqs/oml-faq-meeting-notices.html: 
May a public body consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice? 
Yes, if it is a topic that the chair did not reasonably anticipate 48 hours before the meeting. If a meeting topic is 
proposed after the meeting notice is posted, the public body is encouraged to update its posting to provide the public 
with as much notice as possible of what subjects will be discussed during a meeting. Although a public body may 
consider a topic that was not listed in the meeting notice if unanticipated, the Attorney General strongly encourages 
public bodies to postpone discussion and action on topics that are controversial or may be of particular interest to the 
public if those topics were not listed in the meeting notice. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
/ 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 

===PAGE 4===
cc: Melrose School Committee 
Carrie Kourkamelis 
Mary Jo Hollender 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 
