===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 21, 2015 
OML 2015-101 
Robert S. Troy, Esq. 
Troy Wall Associates 
90 Route 6A 
Sandwich, MA 02563 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Troy: 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty, dated May 18, alleging that the 
Governing Board of the Cape Cod Water Protection Collaborative (the "Board") violated the 
Open Meeting Law, GL. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' Specifically, the complaint alleges that the notice 
for the Board's April 29 meeting was not sufficiently specific to inform the public of the topics 
to be discussed. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 29. The Board 
responded by letter dated May 13, and you responded separately by letter dated May 14. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Board, the Board's 
response, your May 14 letter, and the complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed 
the notice for the Board's April 29 meeting. 
We find the facts as follows. The notice for the Board's April 29 meeting included the 
following topics: 
FACTS 
2. 208 Area-Wide Water Quality Management Plan Update 
3. Report on Atmospheric Deposition Study by MBL 
5. Budget Report 
6. Municipal Service Approval Report 
7. Member Reports 
1 All dates refer to the year 2015. 
===PAGE 2===
During the Board's April 29 meeting, the Executive Director of the Cape Cod 
Commission gave a presentation regarding the Board's Area-Wide Water Quality Management 
Plan, pursuant to Section 208 of the federal Clean Water Act. Following that presentation, the 
Board discussed a study on atmospheric deposition undertaken by the Marine Biological Labs 
(MBL). A marine ecologist from the MBL conducted a PowerPoint presentation for the Board. 
The Board then received a written report on the Cape Cod Water Protection Collaborative's 
budget from the Collaborative's executive director, but there was no discussion. Nor was there 
discussion on agenda item number 6, the Municipal Service Approval Report, or agenda item 7, 
Member Reports. Member Reports is a section of the agenda reserved for representatives of 
member towns to share information about water related activity in their community. The content 
of each report is generally not known in advance by the chair. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body must post notice of every meeting that it holds. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include "a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting." Id. The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
Each of the topics the Board discussed during its April 29 meeting was sufficiently 
described by the meeting notice. The topic "208 Area-Wide Water Quality Management Plan 
Update," clearly informed members of the public that the Board would discuss an area-wide 
water quality management plan, though we note that the significance of the number "208" might 
be confusing to members of the public who are not aware that it refers to review under a specific 
section of the Clean Water Act. Further, the topic "Report on Atmospheric Deposition Study by 
MBL" clearly informed the pubic that the Board would discuss a study on atmospheric 
deposition. While we generally recommend that public bodies avoid using abbreviations that are 
not commonly understood, here we find that even with the use of such an abbreviation the topic 
was sufficiently specific. See OML 2013-46.2 We suggest, however, that in future notices it 
would be clearer for the Board to identify MBL as Marine Biology Labs. 
The Board did not discuss the remainder of the topics identified in Mr. Beaty's 
complaint. When reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on 
its face, we do not review a meeting notice standing alone. See OML 2015-21; OML 2014-155. 
Rather, we review what was actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was 
sufficiently detailed to make the public aware of the discussion topics. Id. Here, we find that on 
its face, the notice for the April 29 meeting met the statutory requirements by providing the list 
of topics the chair reasonably anticipated the Board would discuss. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve any 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Board, Please feel free to 
contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Governing Board of the Cape Cod Water Protection Collaborative 
Ronald Beaty 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 