===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 14, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 219 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Howard L. Greenspan, Esq. 
Counsel for Malden School Committee 
hgreenspan@greenspanlawyers.com  
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Greenspan: 
 
This office received a complaint from Brian DeLacey, on behalf of the Malden News 
Network, on May 15, 2024, alleging that the Malden School Committee (the “Committee”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with 
the Committee on March 28, 2024, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter 
dated April 12, 2024.
1 We understand the complaint to allege that the Committee has improperly 
redacted minutes for executive sessions held on November 13 and December 4, 2023, where the 
purpose for the executive sessions has been served. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee has not met its burden under the Open 
Meeting Law of justifying continued nondisclosure of its executive session minutes with respect 
to discussions of contract negotiations with the former superintendent of schools, collective 
bargaining with Unit A, or a grievance matter related to the SEIU Local 888 Clerical Unit, and 
therefore may not rely on the Open Meeting Law to continue to redact portions of its minutes 
that record these discussions. We find that the Committee has met its burden of justifying 
continued nondisclosure of its executive session minutes with respect to discussions of collective 
 
1 The Committee asserts that the Open Meeting Law complaint it received did not include any alleged violations but 
instead simply requested that the minutes for the Committee’s November 13 and December 4, 2023, executive 
sessions be released without redactions or that the redactions be justified. Indeed, the Open Meeting Law complaint 
attached to the Committee’s response supports this assertion. The Open Meeting Law complaint filed with our office 
by the Complainant includes a description of the alleged violations, as well as the above-mentioned requested 
remedial actions. Because the Committee substantively responded to the complaint and fully addressed the matters 
at issue in the complaint filed with our office, we review the complaint.   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
bargaining with Unit B. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Committee’s response, and the request for further review. We also reviewed the 
minutes of the Committee’s November 13 and December 4, 2023, executive sessions, both the 
publicly available versions and versions that were mostly unredacted,2 which we reviewed in 
camera. Finally, we communicated with Attorney Greenspan by email and telephone.3 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Committee convened in executive session on 
November 13 and December 4, 2023, to discuss various topics. During the November 13 
executive session, the Committee discussed the following topics that are relevant to the present 
complaint: 
 
2. Purpose 3 - To conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with 
Unit A because an open meeting will have a detrimental effect on the bargaining 
position and the chair so declares. 
 
3. Purpose 3 - To conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with 
Unit B because an open meeting will have a detrimental effect on the bargaining 
position and the chair so declares. 
 
. . . 
 
5. Purpose 2 - To conduct strategy sessions in preparation for contract negotiations 
with Non -Union Personnel - Superintendent of Schools, Dr. Noriega -Murphy, 
because an open meeting will have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position  
and the chair so declares. 
 
During the December 4 executive session, the Committee discussed the following topics 
that are relevant to the present complaint: 
 
2. Purpose 2 - To conduct collective bargaining SEIU Local 888 Clerical Unit 
grievance  
 
. . .  
 
4. Purpose 2 - To conduct strategy sessions in preparation for contract negotiations 
with Non -Union Personnel - Superintendent of Schools, Dr. Noriega -Murphy, 
because an open meeting will have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position 
and the chair so declares. 
 
The minutes of November 13 and December 4 executive sessions have been released to 
the public and are available online at https://maldenps.org/school-committee/school-committee-
meetings/. Portions of the minutes, however, have been redacted and as such continue to be 
 
2 The minutes we reviewed in camera included some redactions made under a claim of the attorney-client privilege. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
withheld from the public. Specifically, portions of the minutes recording the discussions held 
under the above-listed topics are redacted in their entirety. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Unless lawfully convened in executive session, “all  meetings of a public body shall be 
open to the public.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for 
one or more of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One 
permissible purpose for convening in executive session is to “conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.” G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 
2”). Another permissible reason to convene in executive session is “[t]o discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”). Grievance matters may be discussed under Purpose 2 or Purpose 3 
because they are part of the collective bargaining process. See Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 73 (1978) (“[c]ollective bargaining sessions encompass not only the 
negotiations leading to the agreement, but also the resolution of grievances pursuant to the 
collective bargaining agreement”); OML 2019-161.4 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public
  body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The Open Meeting 
Law provides that executive session meeting minutes “may be withheld from disclosure to the 
public in their entirety under subclause (a) of [the Public Records Law], as long as publication 
may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
Once the purpose for the executive session “has been served, the minutes, preparatory materials 
and documents and exhibits of the session shall be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege 
or 1 or more of the exemptions under [the Public Records Law] apply to withhold these records, 
or any portion thereof, from disclosure.” Id. Specifically, with respect to executive sessions held 
under Purpose 2 or Purpose 3, “the minutes, preparatory materials[,] and documents and exhibits 
used at the session may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety, unless and 
until such time as a litigating, negotiating or bargaining position is no longer jeopardized by such 
disclosure.” Id. Once a litigating, negotiating, or bargaining position would no longer be 
jeopardized by disclosure, the minutes and materials of the executive session “shall be disclosed 
unless the attorney-client privilege or 1 or more of the exemptions under [the Public Records 
Law] apply to withhold [the] records, or any portion thereof, from disclosure.” Id.  
 
We have explained tha
 t even if a particular contract or collective bargaining agreement 
has been finalized, there may be circumstances where the executive session purpose of protecting 
the public body’s negotiating position, in relation to future negotiations, remains ongoing such 
that the public body may continue to withhold the executive session minutes, in whole or in part, 
under the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2012-41 (noting, however, that the minutes “may not be 
withheld indefinitely. At some point, the public interest in transparency will outweigh the 
potential for harm to the public body’s future collective bargaining position.”); OML 2015-52; 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
OML 2015-97. The burden of justifying continued nondisclosure of executive session minutes 
lie
s with the public body. See Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham Regional Sch. Comm., 402 Mass. 179, 
184 (1988); OML 2017-151.  
 
The co
mplaint alleges that the redactions made to the minutes of the November 13 and 
December 4, 2023, executive sessions are inappropriate where they “involve a contract which is 
now a settled matter.” Additionally, the complaint requests that the minutes be released without 
any redactions or that the Committee justify the reason for each redaction. The Committee 
responded to the complaint by offering justification for each of the redactions. Below, we 
address whether the Committee may rely on the Open Meeting Law to justify each redaction.  
 
I. The Committee may not rely on the Open Meeting Law to continue to withhold 
portions of the November 13 and December 4 executive session minutes related to 
contract negotiations with the former superintendent of schools. 
 
 T he Committee asserts that redaction of its discussions related to contract negotiations 
with the former superintendent of schools is permissible under both the Open Meeting Law and 
the Public Records Law. Specifically, the Committee asserts that subclause (a) of the Public 
Records Law exempts from disclosure records that are “specifically or by necessary implication 
exempted from disclosure by statute,” G.L. c. 4, § 7(26)(a), and that section 22(e) of the Open 
Meeting Law specifically exempts from disclosure “materials used in deliberations about 
employment or appointment of individuals, including applications and supporting materials . . . 
.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e). The Committee further asserts that the redacted discussions “involve[d] 
personnel information relating to a specific named individual” and that the redactions are 
therefore justified under subclause (c) of the Public Records Law, which exempts from 
disclosure “personnel and medical files or information and any other materials or data relating to 
a specifically named individual, the disclosure of which may constitute an unwarranted invasion 
of personal privacy.” G.L. c. 4, § 7(26)(c). 
 
 We do not agree that section 22(e) of the Open Meeting Law justifies redaction of the 
Commit
tee’s discussions regarding contract negotiations with the former superintendent. First, 
section 22(e) relates to the minutes and materials of open session meetings, not executive session 
meetings. The Open Meeting Law specifically addresses the disclosure of executive session 
meeting minutes and materials in section 22(f) and provides that once the purpose for the 
executive session has been served “the minutes, preparatory materials and documents and 
exhibits of the session shall be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or 1 or more of the 
exemptions under [the Public Records Law] apply to withhold these records, or any portion 
thereof, from disclosure.” See OML 2015-70 (“As [section 22(e)] concerns only documents used 
at an open session meeting, we find it is inapplicable to the present situation, which concerns 
documents allegedly used during an executive session discussion.”). Second, section 22(e) 
specifically refers to “materials used in deliberations about employment or appointment of 
individuals, including applications and supporting materials,” and clarifies that “resumes” are 
not exempt from disclosure. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e) (emphasis added). It is clear from a plain 
reading of the text that this portion of section 22(e) concerns underlying materials a public body 
might use in deliberating about employment or appointment, and not the public body’s 
deliberations themselves.  
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 Based on the above, we find that the Open Meeting Law does not justify continued 
nondisclosure of the discussions related to contract negotiations with the former superintendent. 
However, we make no finding and offer no opinion as to whether the attorney-client privilege or 
an exemption to the Public Records Law may allow the Committee to continue to redact these 
discussions.5  
 
II. The Committee may not rely on the Open Meeting Law to continue to withhold those 
portions of the November 13 and December 4 executive session minutes related to 
collective bargaining Unit A or a grievance matter concerning the SEIU Local 888 
Clerical Unit; however, the Committee may continue to rely on the Open Meeting 
Law to withhold that portion of the November 13 minutes related to collective 
bargaining Unit B.  
 
 T he Committee asserts that continued nondisclosure of its discussions held on November 
13 regarding collective bargaining Units A and B is justified even though the particular 
negotiations discussed have concluded. Likewise, the Committee asserts that continued 
nondisclosure of the portion of the December 4 minutes regarding a collective bargaining 
grievance is justified even though the particular grievance has been concluded. Specifically, the 
Committee asserts that the executive session purposes remain ongoing because disclosure of the 
redacted information “may have a detrimental effect on [the Committee’s] ongoing bargaining 
position with respect to collective bargaining units representing school district employees,” and 
“would harm the Committee’s position with respect to other bargaining units, or in future 
negotiations with the same unit.”  
 
 We have 
 explained that where a public body’s discussions touch upon long-term strategy 
that could harm a future bargaining position with respect to subsequent collective bargaining 
agreements, executive session minutes may be withheld for a period of time beyond the 
conclusion of the collective bargaining or contract negotiation sessions. See OML 2012-41; 
OML 2015-52. However, the burden of justifying continued nondisclosure lies with the public 
body. See Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham Regional Sch. Comm., 402 Mass. 179, 184 (1988); OML 
2017-151. After review of the Committee’s response to the Open Meeting Law complaint and 
the November 13 and December 4 executive session minutes, we find that the Committee has not 
met its burden in justifying the continued nondisclosure of its discussions regarding collective 
bargaining Unit A or the collective bargaining grievance where the discussions do not appear to 
have touched upon long-term strategy the disclosure of which could harm the Committee’s 
position in future negotiations and where the minutes do not contain a detailed account of the 
Committee’s negotiation strategy in any event. See OML 2018-19 (noting the distinction 
between discussions held under Purpose 3 with respect to collective bargaining strategy and 
actual collective bargaining sessions held under Purpose 2). However, we find that the 
November 13 discussions related to collective bargaining Unit B did touch upon matters that 
could harm the Committee’s future bargaining position if disclosed and that the Committee may 
therefore rely on the Open Meeting Law to continue withhold this portion of the minutes. As 
noted above, however, this portion of the minutes may not be withheld indefinitely; “[a]t some 
 
5 Questions or concerns regarding redactions made pursuant to the attorney-client privilege or the Public Records 
Law should be directed to the Supervisor of Records within the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s office. See OML 
2024-119.  
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
point, the public interest in trans parency will outweigh the potential for harm to the public 
body’s future collective bargaining position.” OML 2012-41; see also OML 2011-19 (“The 
longer the minutes remain undisclosed, the heavier the burden on the Commission to prove that 
the executive session purpose remains.”).  
 
Final
ly, we reiterate that even where we find that the Open Meeting Law no longer 
justifies withholding certain portions of the executive session minutes, the attorney-client 
privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law may authorize such withholding, in whole 
or in part. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f); OML 2020-20. We offer no opinion as to whether the redactions 
at issue here are permissible under the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public 
Records Law.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee may no longer rely on the Open 
Meeting Law to justify withholding those portions of its November 13 and December 4, 2023, 
executive session minutes that relate to contract negotiations with the former superintendent of 
schools, collective bargaining Unit A, or the SEIU Local 888 Clerical Unit grievance matter. We 
find that the Committee may continue to rely on the Open Meeting Law to withhold that portion 
of its November 13 executive session minutes that relates to collective bargaining Unit B. We 
order the Committee to release the minutes of its November 13 and December 4 executive 
sessions without redaction of the portions related to contract negotiations with the former 
superintendent of schools, collective bargaining Unit A, or the SEIU Local 888 Clerical Unit 
grievance matter, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law 
allows for continued redaction.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Mayor Gary Christenson, Chair, Malden School Committee  
(via email: mayor@cityofmalden.org)  
Carol Ann Desiderio, Malden City Clerk (via email: cdesiderio@cityofmalden.org) 
Brian DeLacey, Malden News Network (via email: ) 
 

===PAGE 7===
7 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 