===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
July 3, 2012 
Joseph Casey 
Superintendent 
Melrose Public Schools 
Administrative Offices 
360 Lynn Fells Parkway 
Melrose, MA 02176 
RE: Open Meeting Law Determination — OML 2012-46 
Dear Mr. Casey: 
Enclosed, please find a corrected copy of Open Meeting Law determination number 
OML 2012-46. The corrected determination acknowledges that the Committee stated it 
would reconvene in open session immediately following its executive session on 
February 22, 2012. This correction does not alter our conclusion that the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to ensure that all open session portions of its 
February 22, 2012 meeting were open to the public. 
Please feel free to call me at (617) 963-2451 should you have any questions or wish to 
discuss this matter further. 
Regards, 
Amy L. Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open 
Government 
Cc: 	 Mary Jo Hollender, Esq. 
Ted Kenney 
Melrose School Committee 
1 
===PAGE 2===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
Bo.; TON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAMA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
017) 727-2200 
ww.niass.gov/go  
June 11, 2012 
OML 2012 — 46 
Joseph F. Casey, Superintendent 
Melrose Public School 
Administrative Offices 
360 Lynn Fells Parkway 
Melrose, MA 02176 
RE: Open Meeting  
Dear Mr. Casey: 
The Attorney General's Office received a complaint from Ted Kenney, dated April 10, 
2012, alleging that the Melrose School Committee's Superintendent Search Committee (the 
"Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, Ci.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the 
complaint alleges that "Rlhere was a meeting of the Melrose School Committee's Superintendent 
Search Committee on February 22, 2012. The notice of this meeting said there would be a 
publie portion, but the doors were locked until the meeting was over. 	 The complainant 
requests "a public apology for breaking the law" and that the Committee be ordered to attend a 
televised Open Meeting Law training session, The complaint was filed with the ( ommittee on 
or about March 3, 2012, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated March 
26, 2012, 
We reviewed the complaint and the Committee's response, which included copies of the 
notice for the February 22, 2012 meeting and the open session minutes from that meeting. In 
addition, we spoke NNith you and (Jerry Mroz by telephone on April 19 and April 25, 2012, 
respectively, Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law, 
but has taken appropriate remedial action to ensure compliance with the law going forward. 
FACTS 
The Committee posted notice for a February 22, 2012 meeting, to be held in the 
Superintendent's Conference Room inside the Melrose lligh School building, Three topics for 
discussion were listed: 1) "Update on search process.," 2) candidate interviews in executive 
session. from 3:20 p.m. until 10:45 p.m.; and 3) consideration of'the approval of certain meeting 
minutes. 
===PAGE 3===
On February 22, 2012, the Committee convened its meeting in open session. After 
asking whether there were any questions about the search process and hearing none, in the 
interest of efficiency, the Committee opted to consider at that time the approval of the minutes 
listed in agenda item three. The Committee then voted to enter into executive session, and stated 
that it would "reconvene in open session immediately following." Following the executive 
session, at 11:10 p.m., the Committee reconvened in open session. A five minute discussion 
about scheduling future meetings followed, then the Committee adjourned. 
According to the Superintendent' and Mr. Mroz, the door to the area of the High School 
in which the Superintendent's office is located is always locked for security reasons. The 
Superintendent stated that, typically, if the School Committee is having a meeting there, they 
either have someone sit by the door to let people in, or they post a notice telling people to ring a 
buzzer for access. On the night of February 22, 2012, according to the Committee's response, a 
school secretary was seated at a desk near the entrance to the offices to provide access to meeting 
attendees. However, once the Committee entered executive session, the greeter left, possibly 
because she was unaware that the Committee would reconvene later in open session. Later in the 
evening, Mr. Mroz attempted to attend the Committee's meeting but was unable to gain access to 
the meeting room. He arrived at the High School around 10:15 p.m., anticipating an open 
session beginning at 10:45 p.m., and attempted to gain access to the building. He found the door 
to the Superintendent's lobby area locked, and no greeter present to let visitors in. He then 
walked around the building to the main doors of the High School, but found those locked as well. 
He then rang the bell for access, but no one responded, presumably because they were unable to 
hear the buzzer in the conference room. He then returned to his car to wait and, shortly after 11 
p.m., saw people leaving the meeting location. 
On March 20, 2012, the full School Committee considered Mr. Kenney's complaint and 
authorized the Chair of the School Committee to apologize on behalf of the School Committee 
and the Search Committee to Mr. Mroz, which she did in person the following evening. The 
Committee also pledged in its response to the complaint to "make sure that individuals who 
serve as chairs or co-chairs of public bodies . . . are informed as part of their training following 
their election that it is their responsibility to ensure that members of the public are able to gain 
entry to buildings where open meetings of public bodies are held after regular business hours 
when the buildings may be locked." Finally, during his conversation with our office on April 19, 
2012, the Superintendent also stated that he will make sure that when meetings are held in the 
locked area of the High School, steps are taken to ensure that the public is able to access the 
meeting room for the duration of any open meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be open to the public, 
unless an executive session is properly convened. See  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21. In order for a 
meeting to be truly "open to the public," the meeting venue must be accessible to the public for 
the duration of the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). Here, the public was unable to gain 
access to the meeting location after the greeter left, thus the meeting was not "open" and the 
For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
2 
===PAGE 4===
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. We do not believe the Committee intentionally 
excluded Mr. Mroz or any other member of the public, however, and we have been assured that 
the Committee is taking appropriate steps to ensure that all members of the public have access to 
its open meetings in the future. These steps include ensuring that a greeter with the ability to 
provide access is present by any locked door for the duration of the meeting, or holding meetings 
in a location where doors do not need to be kept locked for security reasons. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to ensure that all open session portions of its February 22, 2012 meeting were truly 
open to the public. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and 
caution that future similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We decline to order a "public apology for breaking the law," as complainant requests. Our office 
encourages public bodies to offer apologies to complainants where appropriate, and generally 
will not take a position on whether the manner or content of the apology was sufficient. Further, 
where a public body takes corrective action in response to a complaint filed with that body, we 
strongly encourage complainants to consider whether further review by this office remains 
necessary. 
We now consider this matter closed. This letter does not resolve any other complaints 
against the Committee that may be pending with our office or with the Committee itself. Please 
feel free to contact me at (617) 963-2451 if you have any questions or believe any facts in this 
letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
- 	 _ 
Amy L. Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: Ted Kenney 
3 