===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
AITORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www. mass .gov/ago 
August 14, 2017 
OML 2017-125 
Deborah I. Ecker 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Ecker: 
This office received a complaint from Thomas Robinson, dated May 29, alleging that the 
Hubbardston Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 13, and the Board 
responded by letter dated March 30. In his complaint, Mr. Robinson alleges that the Board 
deliberated outside of a noticed meeting and failed to provide him an opportunity to respond to 
allegations of misconduct.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also examined the notice, minutes, and video 
recording of a Board meeting held on February 27.3 Additionally, we reviewed all 
documentation provided with these filings, including two e-mails from the town administrator to 
the Board, dated February 1 and 6. We reviewed e-mails from the Board's legal counsel dated 
July 7 and July 31. Finally, we spoke with the Board's legal counsel by telephone on June 22 
and July 27.4 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 The complaint contains other allegations that, even if true, would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board's chair restricted access to public 
documents in violation of the Public Records Law. This determination concerns only compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, thus we decline to review allegations of violation of any other laws. See OML 
2013-79. The complaint also alleges that the chair may have sent a letter without authorization from the Board. 
Even if true, this claim would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law. Therefore, we decline to review 
it. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 
3 The video of the February 27 Board meeting is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wVVmaSZwOfY. 
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body. At all times 
relevant to this complaint, Christine Bolduc was employed as the Hubbardston Board of Health 
clerk, and Mr. Robinson was a member of the Hubbardston Planning Board. On February 1, 
Town Administrator Raeanne Siegel e-mailed the Board members to inform them of allegations 
made by Ms. Bolduc against Mr. Robinson following an interaction in the Hubbardston library 
basement on January 31. Ms. Bolduc alleged that Mr. Robinson, who was at the time seeking 
access to certain files, was disrespectful to her and improperly gained access to files by 
convincing Planning Board Clerk Janet Baczewski to unlock a filing cabinet. All Board 
members were copied on the town administrator's February 1 e-mail, and Board member Jeff 
Williams replied to the town administrator with his reaction to the allegations and his 
recommendations for how to handle the situation. He did not copy any other Board members on 
his reply. On February 3, Ms. Bolduc sent an e-mail to the Hubbardston town secretary and 
town administrator detailing her allegations and requesting that the Board of Selectmen 
reprimand Mr. Robinson. Three days later, on February 6, the town administrator forwarded Ms. 
Bolduc's e-mail to the Board and received no response. 
The Hubbardston Board of Health held a meeting on February 14. During the meeting, 
Ms. Bolduc shared her allegations against Mr. Robinson, and the Hubbardston Board of Health 
voted to request that the Board authorize an investigation into the events of January 31. The next 
day, on February 15, Ms. Bolduc informed the town administrator of the vote. Later that day, the 
town administrator contacted the Board's chair as well as town counsel, and sent written notice 
to Mr. Robinson and Ms. Baczewski stating that the Board planned to enter executive session 
during a February 21 meeting pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) to discuss Ms. Bolduc's 
allegations. The Board also invited Ms. Bolduc to attend the executive session. The discussion 
was later postponed until the Board's February 27 meeting. Accordingly, new written notices 
were sent to Mr. Robinson, Ms. Baczewski, and Ms. Bolduc on February 22. 
Mr. Robinson and Ms. Baczewski attended the February 27 meeting, while Ms. Bolduc 
did not attend. During that meeting, a Board member moved to enter into executive session to 
discuss the complaint. Before the Board's vote to enter into executive session, the town 
administrator asked if anyone wished to have the discussion occur in open session. In response, 
Ms. Baczewski requested that the issue be discussed in open session. Board member Michael 
Strauder then asked Mr. Robinson if he was waiving his right to executive session. Mr. 
Robinson stated that he was not certain of his rights, and began debating his options aloud. Mr. 
Strauder interrupted to ask Mr. Robinson whether he wished the Board to proceed in open or 
executive session. At that point, Mr. Robinson stated "open." Mr. Strauder then announced that 
the Board would remain in open session, and explained that the purpose of the discussion would 
be to hear allegations against an individual and decide whether or not to proceed with an 
investigation. He also specified that there would be no comments or testimony allowed from the 
audience. Mr. Strauder also noted that because the discussion would take place in open session, 
the conversation could not include the names of any people who were not in attendance and did 
not consent to open session. 
At this point in the meeting. Attorney Mark Goldstein, who was representing Mr. 
Robinson and Ms. Baczewski, addressed the Board, stating that his clients should be permitted to 
share their sides of the story. The Board acknowledged Attorney Goldstein's position but 
2 
===PAGE 3===
followed town counsel's advice not to accept comments. The Board then allowed the chair of 
the Hubbardston Board of Health to read a prepared statement requesting an investigation into 
the events of January 31, and discussed the logistics of proceeding with an investigation. The 
Board did not discuss the allegations themselves or allow Mr. Robinson to speak on his own 
behalf. Finally, the Board voted unanimously in favor of proceeding with an investigation. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Board Did Not Deliberate Outside of an Open Meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law requires all meetings of public bodies to be open to the public, 
except when executive session has been convened pursuant to G.L. c. 3OA, § 21. Under the 
Open Meeting Law, "meeting" is defined as a deliberation by a public body with respect to any 
matter within the body's jurisdiction and "deliberation" is defined as any oral or written 
communication between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. "Quorum" is defined as a simple majority of public body 
members. Id. 
The complaint alleges that the Board improperly deliberated about Ms. Bolduc's 
complaint between the time the Board first learned of the alleged incident on February 1 and the 
meeting where it was discussed on February 27. The Board denied this allegation in its response 
to Mr. Robinson's complaint. Board members did not communicate with each other before the 
town administrator sent executive session notices to Mr. Robinson and Ms. Baczewski. The 
complaint suggests that the lack of substantive discussion regarding Ms. Bolduc's allegations 
during the meeting provides evidence of prior deliberation. We have stated in prior 
determinations that agreement without substantive discussion among public body members at a 
noticed meeting is insufficient to support the inference that those members deliberated outside of 
a noticed meeting. See OML 2017-93; 2013-128.5 
The complaint also cites the town administrator's February 1 and 6 e-mails, as well as 
Mr. Williams' response to the February 1 e-mail, as evidence of improper deliberation. A non-
member of a public body may communicate with a public body as long as the non-member does 
not facilitate communication between or among a quorum of the public body. See OML 2017-
86. Thus, the e-mails sent by the town administrator to the Board did not, absent communication 
between a quorum of the Board, constitute deliberation. On February 1, only one Board member 
responded to the town administrator; he did not copy any other Board members. No Board 
members responded to the town administrator's February 6 e-mail. Because these e-mails did 
not involve discussion between or among a quorum of the Board, we find no violation with 
respect to this allegation. 
II. The Board was not Obligated to Allow Mr. Robinson to Address the Board Because 
the February 27 Meeting was Held Entirely in Open Session. 
The Open Meeting Law allows public bodies to enter executive session for any of ten 
enumerated purposes, including to "discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or 
mental health ... of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). When a public body plans to convene in executive session pursuant to 
Purpose 1, the individual who is the subject of discussion has the right to "be notified in writing 
by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session." Id. That individual 
also has the right to be present during executive session deliberations which involve that 
individual; to have counsel present for the purpose of advising the individual and not for the 
purpose of active participation; to speak on his own behalf; and to cause an independent record 
to be created of said executive session by audio-recording or transcription, at the individual's 
expense. Id. However, if the individual requests that the session be open, the public body must 
hold the discussion in open session. Id. 
Mr. Robinson alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it did not 
allow him to speak on his own behalf during the February 27 meeting. Mr. Robinson, Ms. 
Bolduc, and Ms. Baczewski all received notice that they would be discussed during executive 
session on February 27. However, at the request of Mr. Robinson and Ms. Baczewski, the 
discussion took place in open session. An individual who would otherwise have a right to speak 
on his own behalf during a Purpose 1 executive session does not have an analogous right if the 
same discussion is held in open session. See OML 2014-23; OML 2013-64; OML 2012-59. 
Therefore, because it is within the chair's discretion to limit public participation during a 
meeting, the chair did not violate the Open Meeting Law by preventing Mr. Robinson from 
addressing the Board in open session. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). However, we encourage public 
bodies to allow public participation during meetings whenever possible. See OML 2015-12; 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
OML 2014-129; OML 2012-59. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
K 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Hubbardston Board of Selectmen 
Thomas Robinson 
4 
===PAGE 5===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
5 