===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 12, 2024 
  
OML 2024 – 154  
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
Elizabeth J. Kazinskas  
Gardner City Council President 
ekazinskas@gardner-ma.gov  
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Kazinskas:  
 
This office received a complaint from Paul DeMeo on May 5, 2024, alleging that the 
Gardner City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1   
The complaint was originally filed with the Council on or around February 19, and you 
responded on behalf of the Council by letter dated March 11.  The February 19 complaint alleges 
that the Council reviewed a prior Open Meeting Law complaint during its February 5 meeting 
and reached agreement on a plan for responding to, but without first engaging in discussion of, 
that prior complaint, and alleges that this agreement indicates deliberation before the February 5 
meeting regarding the prior complaint. 
 
Foll
owing our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Council’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed video recordings 
of the Council’s February 5 and March 4 meetings.2 
  
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2024. 
2 The video recordings were reviewed online at https://www.gardner-ma.gov/637/Video-On-Demand. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is 
a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id. 
 
During the Council’s February 5 meeting, Councilor George Tyros moved “to authorize 
the council president to respond on the behalf of the council that the executive session minutes 
have already been approved and are available.”  Councilor Dana Heath seconded the motion.  
Council President Kazinskas asked whether there was any discussion; there was none.  The 
Council voted unanimously in favor.  The complaint alleges that the Council’s lack of discussion 
regarding a plan for responding to the complaint before Councilor Tyros made his motion and 
the Council voted unanimously in favor suggests prior deliberation by the Council, and 
specifically by Council President Kazinskas and Councilors Tyros and Dana Heath.  
 
We have explained that agreement without substantive discussion among public body 
members or the lack of substantive discussion prior to a vote is insufficient to support the 
inference that those members deliberated outside of a noticed meeting.  See OML 2017-125; 
OML 2017-93; OML 2013-128.3  Moreover, communications among three out of the 11 
Councilors would not constitute deliberation in any event.  In the absence of any specific 
evidence that a quorum of Councilors communicated prior to the February 5 meeting regarding 
the prior Open Meeting Law complaint, we do not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law.4 
 
Finally, to the extent the complaint can be construed as alleging that the Council violated 
the Ope
n Meeting Law by failing to engage in a substantive discussion of the Open Meeting Law 
complaint before voting to authorize Council President Kazinskas to respond, we find no 
violation.  The Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to engage in a substantive 
discussion of the merits of a complaint; the decision to refer a complaint for response rather than 
to discuss its substance is the public body’s prerogative.  See OML 2022-145; OML 2020-38; 
OML 2018-134; OML 2017-148.   
 
  
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found on the Attorney General's website at https://www.mass. gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
4 After reviewing the video of the full meeting, we note that the Council took action on dozens of matters, most of 
which were similarly handled through a series of motions, seconds, and unanimous votes without substantive 
discussion.   
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
  
  
    
  Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
  
cc: Paul DeMeo (via e-mail: )  
 Gardner City Clerk (via e- mail: tsiriphan@gardner-ma.gov ) 
  
  
   
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
 
