===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 9,2014 
OML 2014-66 
Brian W. Riley, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch St. 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
This office received an Open Meeting Law complaint from Daniel Rice, dated August 12, 
2013, alleging that the Sutton Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint specifically alleges that the Board deliberated outside of 
an open meeting and decided to decline to reappoint Mr. Rice to the Sutton Conservation 
Commission (the "Commission"). The complaint was filed with the Board on or about July 12, 
2013. The Board responded through counsel by letter dated August 15, 2013.' 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the July 12, 2013 complaint filed with the Board; the Board's 
August 15. 2013 response; and the August 12, 2013 complaint filed with our office. 
Additionally, we reviewed the minutes of the Board's June 18, 2013; July 2, 2013; and July 16, 
2013 meetings. We also reviewed the notice for the Board's July 16, 2013 meeting. Finally, we 
reviewed signed statements from Board members John Fiebert, Michael Chizy, Kenneth Stuart, 
1 We remind the Board that unless our office grants an extension of time, it must respond to an Open Meeting Law 
complaint within 14 business days of receipt. 940 CMR 29.05. If the Board requires additional time to resolve the 
complaint, it may obtain an extension from the Attorney General by submitting a written request within 14 business 
days after receiving the complaint. 940 CMR 29.05(b). Here, the Board sent its response two weeks after the 
deadline had passed but did not request an extension of time to respond. 
2 Starting on September 6, 2013, this office made repeated requests of counsel to either schedule interviews with the 
Board members or to provide this office with signed statements by the Board members regarding this matter. We 
did not receive the Board members' written statements until May 23, 2014, eight months after our initial request. 
We remind the Board that "[u]pon notification of an investigation, any person, public body or any other state, 
regional, county, municipal or other governmental official or entity who is the subject of an investigation, shall 
make all information necessary to conduct such investigation available to the attorney general." G.L. c. 30A, § 
24(a). Failure to respond to such a request from our office may be considered a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
and David Hall, which were provided to our office on May 23, 2014 in response to our request.3 
FACTS 
The Board is a five-member public body, thus three members constitute a quorum. Prior 
to the Board's June 18, 2013 meeting, then Board Chair John Hebert spoke by telephone with 
Board member Michael Chizy regarding the Commission. The two discussed complaints that 
had been lodged against the Commission, but did not discuss whether the Board should take any 
action regarding certain Commission members up for reappointment. The Board did not engage 
in any other conversations outside of a noticed meeting regarding the Commission or the 
appointment of its members. 
During the Board's June 18, 2013 meeting, the Board considered a list of proposed Town 
board and committee appointment renewals. Mr. Chizy requested that the Board table action on 
three of the proposed appointments, including the reappointment of Mr. Rice to the Commission. 
Mr. Chizy did not discuss his request to hold the appointments with any other Board members 
prior to making the request. The Board then voted to approve all reappointments that had not 
been tabled. 
At the Board's next meeting, on July 2, 2013, the Board provided members of the 
Commission, including Mr. Rice, with an opportunity to address the Board. During the meeting. 
Chair Hebert stated that it was "time for a change" on the Commission. However, the Board did 
not take any votes on the appointments during this meeting. 
During the Board's July 16, 2013 meeting, the Board considered six candidates for two 
Commission vacancies. The Board voted to appoint two of the new candidates, and did not 
reappoint Mr. Rice. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A "meeting" is defined as "a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A 
"deliberation" is defined, in relevant part, as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction." Id. A "quorum" is "a simple majority of the members of the 
public body, unless otherwise provided in a general or special law, executive order or other 
authorizing provision." Id 
There is no evidence that a quorum of the Board members communicated outside of a 
noticed meeting regarding the Board's appointments to the Commission. Chair Hebert and Mr. 
Chizy discussed their concerns about the Commission prior to the Board's June 18, 2013 
meeting. However, two members of a five-member public body do not constitute a quorum. 
3 We received statements from four of the five Board members. We did not receive a statement from Board member 
Richard Hersom, We note, however, that Mr. Hersom was not present during the June 18, 2013 meeting that 
prompted this complaint. 
===PAGE 3===
G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The remaining Board members attest in signed statements that they did not 
engage in any communication outside of a noticed meeting regarding the Commission. We have 
not been presented with any evidence to the contrary. Accordingly, we find that there was no 
improper deliberation and the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or with 
the Board. Please contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions or believe any 
facts in this letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely. 
fonalhan ScTarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Sutton Board of Selectmen 
Daniel Rice 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. BOA, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 