===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www, mass.gov/ago 
May 31,2018 
OML 2018-75 
John Richard Hucksam, Jr. 
Assistant City Solicitor 
City of Lowell- Law Department 
City Hall, 375 Merrimack Street, 3rd Floor 
Lowell, MA 01852 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Hucksam: 
This office received a complaint from Linda Gibson on October 24, alleging that the 
Lowell Commission on Disability (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 3OA, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on or about 
September 5, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Commission, by letter 
dated November 28.2 In her complaint, Ms. Gibson alleges that the Commission posts notices 
in an inaccessible location and convenes its meetings in an inaccessible location that does not 
accommodate members of the public in attendance.3 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following 
our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law, In reaching 
a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Commission's response to the 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017. 
2 We remind the Commission that, within 14 business days after receiving a complaint, unless our office grants 
an extension, the public body must meet to review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if 
appropriate; and send to the complainant and the Attorney General a description of any remedial action taken. 
See G.L, c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
3 Additionally, Ms. Gibson alleges that the Commission changes its meetings dates and times "without rain 
dates" and fails to notity individuals when meetings are canceled. Our office does not conduct broad audits of 
public bodies based on generalized allegations. See OML 2016-71. Further, we note that the Open Meeting 
Law does not require individual notification for canceled meetings. Ms. Gibson also alleges that the 
Commission failed to provide meeting minutes within 10 days of a request; failed to "articulate Commission 
goals upon request;" and denied a Commission member's accommodation request. These allegations do not 
specify the meeting date(s). To the extent that the allegations occurred specifically on May 1, 2017, as indicated 
on the complaint form, they would be considered untimely because complaints must be filed within 30 days of 
the alleged violation, or within 30 days of the reasonable discovery of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4). 
O 
===PAGE 2===
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also spoke 
numerous times with your office and reviewed photographs of the City's notice posting 
location, which your office provided to us. Finally, we reviewed measurements and 
photographs of the City's notice posting location taken by Attorney General Senior 
Investigator David Bolcome on May 4, 2018, in consultation with our Civil Rights Division. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The City's notice posting location is a bulletin board 
located outside of City Hall. The structure is surrounded in all directions by a row of bushes 
and is set back from a street curb by approximately 18 inches. The height of the bulletin 
board is 42 inches and the width of the bulletin board is 88 inches. The base of the bulletin 
board is 33.5 inches from the ground. Meeting notices are generally posted in 12-point 
standard font. 
The Commission usually meets on the second floor of City Hall, which is accessible 
by an elevator. According to the Commission, the room is large enough to accommodate 
members of the public, including those members of the public who are mobility impaired. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be 
physically present as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the 
public body. See OML 2015-38; OML 2014-3; OML 2013-189.4 
The Open Meeting Law requires that the municipal clerk post notice of meetings in a 
manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on the municipal building in 
which the clerk's office is located. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c). Alternatively, a municipality may 
adopt its website as the official notice posting location. 940 CMR 29.03(2). 
The complaint alleges that the Commission's notice posting location—a bulletin board 
located outside City Hall—is inaccessible to everyone, particularly to people using 
wheelchairs. We recognize that the Commission is not responsible for adopting its notice 
posting location, but rather it is the responsibility of the City's chief executive officer. See 
940 CMR 29.03(2)(b)(l). However, compliance with the Open Meeting Law's notice posting 
requirements remains with the Commission. See OML 2016-87. Based on the measurements 
of the bulletin board taken by our Office's investigator and in consultation with our Civil 
Rights Division, we find that the Commission's notice posting location is accessible. 
However, we note our concern that the distance from the curb to the bulletin board (which 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
includes a row of bushes) could render some of the notices illegible due to the font size. 
Meeting notices must be "printed or displayed in a legible, easily understandable format." 
940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We encourage the City and the Commission to ensure that meeting 
notices are at least 12-point standard font, with an ideal font size of between 16 and 18-point 
standard font, particularly for those notices posted at the very top of the bulletin board. See 
OML 2018-55; OML 2016-133. And, if a notice is illegible to a particular person, we remind 
the Commission that it must provide an accommodation to that person, if notified. See 940 
CMR 29.03(2)(4) (requiring that a copy of each notice also be accessible to the public in the 
municipal clerk's office during the clerk's business hours). 
The complaint further alleges that the Commission's meeting location is inaccessible 
to everyone. Particularly, the complaint alleges that its meetings, usually held in a conference 
room on the second floor at City Hall, do not accommodate people using wheelchairs and that 
the elevator at City Hall does not accommodate more than one wheelchair at a time. Based on 
our discussions with the Commission and in consultation with our Civil Rights Division, we 
find that the Commission's meeting location on the second floor is accessible to everyone. 
However, to the extent that the Commission occasionally meets in other locations, it must 
ensure that the meeting room can accommodate members of the public, who have a right to 
both see and hear what is being discussed during the meeting. See OML 2012-66. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Commission. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Mi 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Linda Gibson 
Lowell Commission on Disability 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 