===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
   
 
 
August 9, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 147 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Brookline Board of Registrars of Voters  
c/o Ben Kaufman, Brookline Town Clerk  
townclerk@brooklinema.gov  
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Kaufman: 
 
This office received a complaint from Alexander Neary on February 21, 2024, alleging 
that the Brookline Board of Registrars of Voters (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on January 12, 2024. 
The Board did not respond to the complaint. The complaint alleges that the Board failed to 
respond to a request for meeting minutes.
1 The complaint also alleges that the Board failed to 
post meeting minutes on the Town’s website.  
   
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to respond to a request for meeting minutes. We find that the Board did not violate the Law by 
failing to post meeting minutes to the Town’s website. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the request for further review, the original request 
for meeting minutes, communications from the Complainant, and communications from the 
Town Clerk.
2  
 
 
1 Along with the request for meeting minutes, the Complainant also requested documents and exhibits used at the 
meetings as well as audio recordings of the meetings. Requests for records other than meeting minutes fall under the 
Public Records Law, not the Open Meeting Law. See OML Declination 12-7-2022 (Everett City Council). Because 
the Division of Open Government’s statutory authority concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we 
decline to review allegations that the Board failed to provide documents and exhibits used at meetings or audio 
recordings of meetings. See OML Declination 3-11-2015 (Wayland School Committee); OML Declination 1-31-
2022 (Weymouth School Committee). Concerns regarding compliance with the Public Records Law should be 
raised with the Supervisor of Records in the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s office.  
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
   
 
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Board held meetings on March 30 and April 30, 
2022. On December 27, 2023, the Complainant sent an email to the Brookline Town Clerk, Ben 
Kaufman (“Clerk Kaufman”), who serves as an ex-officio member of the Board, requesting, 
among other things, that the minutes of the Board’s March 30 and April 30, 2022, meetings be 
made available by posting them to the Town’s website. On January 12, 2024, having received no 
response to his request, the Complainant filed an Open Meeting Law Complaint with the Board 
via email to Clerk Kaufman. Upon advice from our office, on January 29, 2024, the Complainant 
resubmitted the complaint to Clerk Kaufman, requesting that Clerk Kaufman forward the 
complaint to the chair of the Board. 
 
Having received no response to the Open Meeting Law complaint, on February 21, 2024, 
the Complainant filed a request for further review with our office. On February 23, 2024, our 
office sent an email to the Complainant, copying Clerk Kaufman, acknowledging receipt of the 
complaint. On the same day, Clerk Kaufman responded to our office’s email, confirming receipt 
of the complaint, and explaining that he would bring the complaint to the Board at its meeting 
scheduled for March 8, 2024. Clerk Kaufman further noted that he believed he had found one of 
the sets of requested minutes and would provide those to the Complainant.  
 
On March 21, 2024, Clerk Kaufman emailed our office explaining that the Board had 
provided the Complainant with a copy of the minutes for the Board’s March 30, 2022, meeting. 
Clerk Kaufman further explained that the Board had provided the Complainant with other 
materials related to the March 30 meeting and that the Board was working on providing the 
Complainant with a recording of the meeting. Additionally, Clerk Kaufman explained that the 
Board had been unable to locate the minutes for the April 30, 2022, meeting and that the Board 
would work to recreate the minutes. Finally, Clerk Kaufman explained that the Board had 
committed to establishing a practice of designating a minutes taker for each meeting and that he 
would provide each Board member with a copy of the Open Meeting Law Guide.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). To achieve this goal, the Open Meeting Law requires, 
among other things, that a public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, 
including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or 
absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used 
at the meeting, the decisions made, and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of 
all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Open session minutes must be created and approved in a “timely 
manner.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law Regulations define 
“timely manner” as “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is 
later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.” 940 CMR 29.11(2). 
Whenever possible, we recommend that the minutes be approved at the next meeting. 940 CMR 
===PAGE 3===
   
 
3 
 
29.11(2); see also OML 2019-20.3 Further, the Open Meeting Law requires that “the minutes of 
an open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft form, shall be made available 
upon request by any person within 10 days.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). 
 
The complaint alleges that the Board viola ted the Open Meeting Law by failing to make 
the minutes of its March 30 and April 30, 2022, meetings available within ten days of the 
December 27, 2023, request for the minutes. We agree. Indeed, the Board did not respond to the 
request for minutes at all until after the present complaint was filed with our office for further 
review. When open session minutes are requested, a public body must respond to the requester 
within ten days either making the requested minutes available or explaining that the requested 
minutes do not exist. See OML 2012-100; OML 2015-173. We find that the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law where it failed to respond to the Complainant’s request for meeting minutes 
within ten days.  
 
We understand that the Board has 
 since provided the Complainant with a copy of the 
minutes for the March 30 meeting but has been unable to locate the minutes of the April 30 
meeting. We note our concern that the Board has been unable to locate the minutes of its April 
30
 meeting and remind the Board of its obligation to create and maintain accurate minutes for all 
of its meetings. If the Board is still unable to locate the minutes of its April 30 meeting, it must 
recreate the minutes to the best of its ability, through whatever means are available, including the 
memories and individual notations of the attendees. See OML 2020-160; OML 2018-23; OML 
2017-120.  
 
Nex
t, we must determine whether the violation found here was intentional, as the 
Complainant alleges. An intentional violation is,  
 
An act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of 
M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25. Evidence of an intentional violation . . . shall 
include, but not be limited to, the public body or public body member that:  
(a) acted with specific intent to violate the law;  
(b) acted with deliberate ignorance of the law’s requirements; or  
(c) was previously informed by receipt of a decision from a court of competent 
jurisdiction or advised by the Attorney General, pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07 or 940 
CMR 29.08, that the conduct violates [the Law].  
 
940 CMR 29.02. 
 
Here, we have not previously warned the Board about the violation found, nor do we find 
other evidence that would support a finding of an intentional violation. Indeed, based on our 
communications with Clerk Kaufman, it is our understanding that the Board was confused 
regarding its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. We therefore decline to find the violation 
to have been intentional.  
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law 
===PAGE 4===
   
 
4 
 
 With respect to the al legation that the Board failed to post meeting minutes to the 
Town’s website, the Open Meeting Law does not require that public bodies post their minutes to 
a website or elsewhere. See OML 2023-179, n.1; OML 2017-98; OML 2013-117. Rather, the 
Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes be made available within ten days of a request. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The refore, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to post its minutes to the Town’s website. 
 
Finally, we note our concern where the Board failed to respond to the Open Meeting Law 
complaint. The Open Meeting Law requires that, 
 
Within 14 business days after receiving the complaint, unless an extension has been 
granted by the Attorney General as provided in 940 CMR 29.05(5)(b), the public 
body shall meet to review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if 
appropriate; and send to the complainant a response and a description of any 
remedial action taken. The public body shall simultaneously notify the Attorney 
General that it has sent such materials to the complainant and shall provide the 
Attorney General with a copy of  the complaint, the response, and a description of 
any remedial action taken.  
 
940 CMR 29.05(5); see al
 so G.L. c. 30A, § 23.  
 
Here, the Board did not review or respond to the Open  Meeting Law complaint within 14 
business days of receipt of the complaint. We remind the Board of its obligation to comply with 
the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, including the requirement to timely respond to Open 
Meeting Law complaints.4  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to respond to a request for meeting minutes. We order the Board’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations could be 
considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. Additionally, we order the Board, if it has 
not yet done so, to provide the Complainant with a copy of the minutes for the Board’s April 30, 
2022, meeting within 30 days of the date of this letter and to certify to our office that it has done 
so.  
 
  
 
4 We note that based on communications with Clerk Kaufman, it appears that members of the Board may not have 
received and reviewed the Open Meeting Law educational materials. We remind the Board that “within 2 weeks of 
qualification for office, all persons serving on a public body shall certify, on a form prescribed by the attorney 
general, the receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, regulations . . ., and a copy of the educational materials 
prepared by the attorney general . . . .” G.L. c. 30A § 20(h). The Open Meeting Law certification form along with 
the educational materials may be found on our website at https://www.mass.gov/info-details/complete-public-body-
member-certification.  
===PAGE 5===
   
 
5 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.     
 
Sincerely,   
        
Elizabeth Carnes-Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General   
Division of Open Government   
   
Assisted by Andrea Royo, Legal Intern  
  
 
cc: Alexander Neary (via email: )   
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
