===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
 
February 5, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 9 
 
 
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street, 12th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By e-mail only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
 
This office received two complaints from Paul Johnson on June 8, 2020, alleging that the 
Carver Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The 
first complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 12, the second complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on or about April 16, and you responded to both complaints, on 
behalf of the Board, by letter dated May 8, following an extension of time granted by our office.  
The first complaint alleges that the Board improperly amended its notice by adding new topics 
within 48 hours of its April 10 meeting and failed to conduct roll call votes during its April 10 
meeting in which all five Board members participated remotely.  The second complaint alleges 
that the Board failed to post notice 48 hours in advance for a meeting held on April 16. 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters.  Following 
our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to conduct all votes 
by roll call during its April 10 meeting and failing to post notice 48 hours prior to the April 16 
meeting.  We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other way alleged.  
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s response to the 
complaints, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed 
the minutes of the Board’s meeting held on March 3, the original and revised notices and 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
minutes of the Board’s meeting held on April 10, the notices and open and executive session 
minutes of the Board’s meetings held on April 15 and April 16, and video recordings of the April 
8, April 10 and April 15 meetings.2  
  
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  During a March 3 meeting, the Board agreed to amend the 
contract of Town Administrator Michael Milanoski allowing him to cease his employment with 
the Town of Carver; the amendment stated that Mr. Milanoski would remain as Town 
Adminstrator until April 17 and would then serve as an executive consultant to the Town.  
During an April 8 open session meeting, the Board interviewed four candidates for the position 
of Interim Town Administrator. 
 
On April 8 at 9:59 A.M., the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on April 10 at 
10:00 A.M.3  The notice listed two topics – “Discussion and possible vote on offering position of 
Interim Town Administrator to one of the interviewed candidates” and “Town Administrator 
Update: Finance Position of Town from pandemic.”  On April 9 at 1:32 P.M., the Board 
amended its notice by removing the word “Interim” from the first topic.  The Board then 
amended its notice a third time on April 9 at 7:46 P.M. and listed two additional topics under 
Town Administrator Update, including state of the Town finances for both the fiscal year 2020 
and 2021 budgets and a vote to support the transfer of $500,000 from the conservation fund to 
the general stabilization fund. 
 
The April 10 meeting was held as planned and all five Board members participated 
remotely.  During the meeting, each Board member identified the qualities and characteristics 
that they thought were important for a Town Administrator, including familiarity with the town 
and a good working relationship with the public safety departments.  Each Board member then 
revealed their top two candidates for Town Administrator, with the majority of members 
identifying Richard LaFond.  Member Sarah Hewins then made a motion to appoint Richard 
LaFond as Town Administrator and the Board so voted.  The Board discussed the length of 
contract that might be offered to Mr. LaFond and appointed two members to meet with Mr. 
LaFond in order to negotiate contract terms, suggesting that any terms should be finalized by 
April 17 before Mr. Milanoski departs.   
 
 
2 The video recording of the Board meeting held on April 8 is available at http://area58.tv/video/carver-select-board-
2020-04-08/; the video recording of the April 10 meeting is available at http://area58.tv/video/carver-select-board-
2020-04-10/; and the video recording of the April 15 meeting is available at http://area58.tv/video/carver-select-
board-2020-04-15/.  
3 Although not raised in the complaints, we note that the notice for the Board’s April 10 meeting stated that the 
meeting would be held “Remotely through ZOOM” but did not include any information that would allow a member 
of the public to access the meeting, such as a link to the Zoom meeting, nor did it include clear instructions for how 
to obtain such information.  The Executive Order issued by Governor Baker on March 12 temporarily suspended the 
requirement that meetings be held in locations that are physically accessible to the public provided the public body 
provides adequate, alternative means of public access.  Specifically, the Executive Order provides that “[a]dequate, 
alternative means of public access shall mean measures that provide transparency and permit timely and effective 
public access to the deliberations of the public body . . . [enabling] the public to clearly follow the proceedings of 
the public body while those activities are occurring.”  Executive Order at ¶ 1.  We remind the Board of its 
obligations under the Open Meeting Law to provide adequate access to meetings. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The Board then received updates from Town Administrator Milanoski on the budget for 
fiscal years 2020 and 2021 and voluntary furloughs for non-essential employees.  Mr. Milanoski 
advised the Board that the Conservation Commission, at a meeting the previous day, voted to 
transer $500,000 to the general stabilization fund and asked the Board to vote to approve that 
transfer, which the Board unanimously did.  None of the votes taken during the April 10 meeting 
were by roll call vote. 
  
The Board duly posted notice of a meeting to be held on April 15 at 11:00 A.M.  The 
notice stated that the Board would convene in executive session at 11:00 A.M. “to conduct 
negotiations for nonunion personnel (Interim Town Administrator)” pursuant to Purpose 2 and 
“to reconvene in open session.”  The notice then listed seven open session topics, one of which 
was “Vote on New Town Administrator’s Contract.” 
 
The April 15 meeting was held as planned and all five Board members participated 
remotely.  The Board convened in open session and then unanimously voted to convene in  
executive session under Purpose 2 to conduct negotiations for nonunion personnel (Interim Town 
Administrator).  The Board has not released the executive session minutes so we do not recount 
their content in detail here.  However, the Board discussed contract terms for a new Town 
Administrator.  The Board reconvened in open session at 12:20 P.M. and voted to offer a 
contract to Richard LaFond as Interim Town Administrator.   
 
On April 15 at 12:22 P.M., the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on April 16 at 
12:30 P.M.  The notice stated that the Board would convene in executive session at 12:30 P.M. 
“to conduct negotiations for nonunion personnel (Interim Town Administrator)” pursuant to 
Purpose 2 and “to reconvene in open session.”  The notice then listed one open session topic – 
“Vote on Interim Town Administrator’s Contract.” 
 
The April 16 meeting was held as planned and all five Board members participated 
remotely.  The Board convened in open session and then unanimously voted to convene in  
executive session under Purpose 2 to conduct negotiations with for nonunion personnel (Interim 
Town Administrator).  The Board has not released the executive session minutes so we do not 
recount their content in detail here.  However, the Board discussed additional contract terms for 
Mr. LaFond.  The Board reconvened in open session approximately one hour later and approved 
by majority vote a contract for Mr. LaFond to begin as Interim Town Administrator on April 18. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post 
notice of each meeting “at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays” and that every notice include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b).  A public body may amend the notice within 48 hours of a meeting if a previously 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
unanticipated topic comes to the Chair’s attention.  See 940 CMR 29.03(1)(d); OML 2019-131.4  
Public bodies must list topics for discussion with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally 
consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could 
read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 
2015-35; OML 2012-71; OML 2011-44.   
 
I. The Board Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Amending the April 
10 Meeting Notice. 
 
The first complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing 
several topics during its April 10 meeting that were not listed on the original notice but rather 
were added within 48 hours of the meeting.  A public body may amend a meeting notice within 
48 hours of a meeting to include an unanticipated topic and then discuss that topic during the 
meeting.  See OML 2019-131.  The Board first amended the April 10 meeting notice by 
removing the word “Interim” from the first topic, which related to the Board’s discussion on 
hiring a new Town Administrator.  While a public body may not add anticipated topics to a 
notice within 48 hours of a meeting, the law does not prohibit a public body from removing, 
postponing, or declining to discuss a topic listed on a meeting notice.  See OML 2015-174; OML 
2012-23.  Contrary to the assertions in the complaint, we do not find that removing the word 
“Interim” from the listed topic resulted in the creation of a new topic or altered the topic in such 
a way so as to provide the public with insufficient notice of the Board’s intended discussions.  
During the April 10 meeting, the Board discussed the Town Administrator candidates and 
whether to appoint a full or part-time Administrator or offer a short or long term contract.  The 
Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to list all tangential topics related to a 
discussion nor does the law require a public body to anticipate the course of deliberation or the 
outcome of a discussion, only that it identify the discussion topic with sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2015-73; OML 2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38.  
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by amending the notice with 
respect to this topic.      
 
The Board also amended its April 10 meeting notice approximately 24 hours prior to the 
meeting to include more specific topics under the heading of Town Administrator Updates.  
Here, the Town Administrator provided the chair with additional details that he intended to 
discuss with the Board with respect to the fiscal year 2020 and 2021 budgets.  We find that this 
additional topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting.  In addition, 
we note that, in the past, when a meeting notice has included as a topic a report or presentation 
by somebody who is not a member of the public body, such as “Superintendent’s Report” or 
“Administrator’s Report” or “Report from Department Heads,” we have declined to find a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law for lack of specificity where the public body chair did not 
anticipate the specific nature of the deliberations to be had.  Nonetheless, we have encouraged 
public body chairs as a best practice to solicit from the Town Administrator and include on the 
meeting notice more detail regarding the precise matters to be discussed.  See OML 2019-94; 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
OML 2018-33; OML 2012-19.  The Board did that here as the notice listed the specific budget 
topic under Town Administrator Updates.    
 
Finally, with respect to the addition of the topic relating to the money transfer from the 
conservation fund, we find that the chair could not have reasonably anticipated this discussion 48 
hours prior to the Board’s April 10 meeting because the Conservation Commission only 
approved the transfer of funds at its meeting on April 9.  See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87.  
Therefore, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by amending the April 
10 meeting notice to include this unanticipated topic.  In fact, although the Board could have 
discussed the unanticipated topic without adding it to the meeting notice at all, the Board 
followed our recommended best practice of amending its meeting notice to include topics that 
arise fewer than 48 hours before a meeting, so that members of the public are given advance 
notice of agenda items.5  See OML 2015-111; OML 2015-76. 
 
II. We Find that the April 16 Meeting was not an Emergency and therefore 
the Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Post Notice 48 
Hours Prior to the Meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  In an emergency, a public body shall post notice as 
soon as reasonably possible prior to such meeting.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  An “emergency” is 
defined as “a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding 
immediate action.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The burden of justifying the need for an emergency 
meeting lies with the public body.  See OML 2012-7; OML 2010-6.   
 
The second complaint alleges that the Board failed to post notice 48 hours prior to the 
April 16 meeting.  The Board posted notice approximately 24 hours before the April 16 meeting.  
The Board contends that the April 16 meeting qualified as an emergency because “issues came 
up” during the April 15 meeting with respect to the Town Administrator’s contract “that the 
Chair did not previously anticipate and which required further action by the Board.”  While the 
Chair may have believed the circumstances demanded immediate action, the meeting was not 
held for an appropriate emergency purpose because there was no “sudden, generally unexpected 
occurrence or set of circumstances.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  Here, the Board knew as early as March 
3 that Mr. Milanoski’s last day as Town Administrator would be April 17.  Moreover, the Board 
indicated during its April 10 meeting that it wanted to have a new Town Administrator in place 
by April 17.  Where a public body has advance notice of circumstances that are likely to require 
deliberation, it is not an emergency.  Emergency meetings are reserved for circumstances that are 
unanticipated and require an immediate response, for example, to protect public safety or health.  
See OML 2011-45.  Because the April 17 deadline did not arise suddenly or unexpectedly, we 
find that there was no valid basis for an emergency meeting.  As such, the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law by convening its April 16 meeting without posting notice at least 48 hours in 
 
5 Although a public body may consider unanticipated topics, we strongly encourage public bodies to postpone 
discussion and action on topics that are controversial or may be of particular interest to the public in order to include 
such topics in a meeting notice for a subsequent meeting.  See OML 2018-119; OML 2016-54; OML 2014-57. 
 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
advance of the meeting.  Moreover, because we find that the Board’s April 16 emergency 
meeting was improperly held, we order the Board to release to the public the executive session 
minutes.  The Board may not redact or withhold these minutes or any portion thereof.  See G.L c. 
30A, § 22(f) (the minutes of any executive session may be withheld from disclosure to the public  
as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer; 
provided, however, that the executive session was held in compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law’s provisions regarding executive sessions); District Attv. for Plymouth Dist. v. Bd. of 
Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 634 (1985) (“We view [the Open Meeting Law] as 
a statutory public waiver of any possible privilege of the public client in meetings of 
governmental bodies except in the narrow circumstances stated in the statute.”); OML 2014-42; 
OML 2014-17. 
 
III. The Board Failed to Conduct all Votes by Roll Call During its April 10 
Meeting. 
 
The first complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
conduct votes by roll call during its April 10 meeting.  On March 10, Governor Charles Baker 
declared a state of emergency in response to the public health emergency created by the outbreak 
of the 2019 novel Coronavirus (“COVID-19”).  See Exec. Order No. 591 (Mar. 10, 2020).  On 
March 12, Governor Baker issued an executive order temporarily suspending certain provisions 
of the Open Meeting Law during the state of emergency.  See Order Suspending Certain 
Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”).  
The Executive Order temporarily suspends the requirements under the Open Meeting Law and 
the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations that a quorum of a public body, including 
the chair, be physically present at the meeting location and allows all members of a public body 
to participate in a meeting remotely.  All other provisions of the law and regulations regarding 
remote participation remain in effect, including the requirement that “[a]ll votes taken during any 
meeting in which a member participates remotely must be by roll call vote.”  940 CMR 
29.10(7)(c).   
 
On April 10, the Board held a meeting in which all five Board members participated 
remotely.  However, votes taken during this meeting were not conducted by roll call vote.  The 
Board acknowledges that the votes were not conducted by roll call but asserts that “it is readily 
apparent to anyone who views the video recording what each members vote was.”  Even if a vote 
is readily apparent, such as when it is unanimous, the Attorney General’s Regulations require 
that, “all votes taken during any meeting in which a member participates remotely must be by 
roll call vote.”  940 CMR 29.10(7)(c); see OML 2016-132; OML 2015-145.  Accordingly, 
because the Board failed to conduct roll call votes during the April 10 meeting, we find that the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Although not raised in the complaints, we note that the Board also failed to conduct  
votes by roll call during its remote open session meetings held on April 15 and April 16.  We 
remind the Board of its obligations under the law. 
 
 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
IV. We Decline to Review Whether Actions Taken by the Board could be a 
Violation of the Town Bylaws. 
 
Finally, the first complaint alleges that the discussions in executive session violated the 
Town bylaws which require that the Board appoint a Town Administrator from a list of 
candidates prepared by a screening committee.  The Division of Open Government is charged 
specifically with reviewing complaints to determine compliance with the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, thus we decline to review, and offer no opinion on, whether any actions 
taken by the Board could be a violation of the Town bylaws.  See OML Declination 1-19-16 
(Southborough Zoning Board of Appeals); OML Declination 3-11-13 (Abington Conservation 
Commission).  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to conduct roll call votes during the meeting held on April 10 and failing to post notice 48 
hours prior to the April 16 meeting.  We order immediate and future compliance with the law’s 
requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law.  In addition, we order the Board to release the executive session minutes 
of the April 16 meeting.  The Board must certify to this office within thirty (30) days of the date 
of this letter that it has released the executive session minutes.  See 940 C.M.R. 29.07(4). 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Paul Johnson – By e-mail only:  
Carver Select Board c/o Town Administrator Rick LaFond – By e-mail only: 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
