===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
       April 10, 2023 
 
OML 2023 – 52 
 
 
Elizabeth Lydon, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
227 Union Street, Suite 606 
New Bedford, MA 02740 
 
By email only: liz@mtclawyers.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Lydon:  
 
 This office received a complaint from Mark Pelletier on August 12, 2022, and a 
complaint from Allen Waller on August 15, 2022, alleging that the Marblehead Board of Health 
(the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1  Both complaints were 
originally filed with the Board on July 15, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by 
separate letters dated August 11, following an extension of time granted by this office.  Both 
complaints allege that the Board failed to provide adequate alternative means of public access to 
its July 12 meeting.   
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters.  Following 
our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s responses to the 
complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review.  In addition, we 
reviewed the notice, minutes, and video recording of the Board meeting held on July 12.
2   
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  On June 30 at 8:30 A.M., the Board posted notice for a 
meeting to be held on July 12 at 7:30 P.M.  The notice listed seven topics, including an update on 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2022.  
2 A video recording of the Board meeting held on July 12 is available at https://vimeo.com/729730803.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
the Transfer Station.  The notice listed the location of the meeting as Mary Alley Municipal 
Building at 7 Widger Road, Lower Conference Room in Marblehead and via Zoom.  The notice 
provided information necessary to access the virtual meeting, including a link to the Zoom 
meeting, several telephone numbers the public could use to dial into the meeting, and the 
Webinar ID number required to log into the meeting.  The notice also included the following 
statement: “Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-person at Mary Alley Muni. 
Bldg., 7 Widger Rd., Marblehead, MA 01945 or by the remote zoom connection provided.  
Please note that the in-person meeting will not be suspended or terminated if technological 
problems interrupt the remote connection.” 
 
The July 12 meeting was held as planned and all Board members were present at the 
Mary Alley Municipal Building, the physical meeting location.  Because of technical difficulties, 
the meeting was not accessible via Zoom.  During the meeting, the Board reorganized, approved 
two sets of meeting minutes, and received a COVID update from the Public Health Director.  
The Board then received a power point presentation from an engineering firm on a traffic study 
conducted in the area of the transfer station.  
 
The following day, the Board posted a recording of the July 12 meeting online to 
Marblehead Television. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the  
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of  
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement  
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except  
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”).  
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present as well as to 
see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2020-100; 
OML 2018-75; OML 2016-54.3 
 
On June 16, 2021, Governor Charles Baker signed into law An Act Relative to Extending 
Certain COVID-19 Measures Adopted During the State of Emergency, Chapter 20 of the Acts of 
2021 (“Chapter 20”).  Section 20 of Chapter 20 extended the remote meeting provisions 
established in Governor Baker’s March 12, 2020, Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 20 (“Executive Order”).
4  Relevant here, Chapter 20 
suspended the requirements under the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s Open 
Meeting Law regulations that a quorum of a public body, including the chair, be physically 
present at the meeting location and allows all members of a public body to participate in a 
meeting remotely, provided that the public body provide “adequate, alternative means” of public 
access, such as through telephone, internet or satellite enabled audio or video conferencing or 
any other technology that enables the public to clearly follow the proceedings of the public body 
while those activities are occurring.  See Chapter 20, § 20(b); OML 2021-135.  Chapter 20 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
4 These provisions were extended until March 31, 2023.  See Chapter 107 of the Acts of 2022. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
allows public bodies to provide the public with “adequate, alternative” access to meetings instead 
of providing in-person access but does not require public bodies to provide “adequate, 
alternative” access if in-person access is provided. 
 
The complaints allege that the Board failed to provide adequate alternative means of 
public
 access to the meeting held on July 12 where members of the public could not access the 
meeting via the Zoom link listed on the notice.  When all public body members participate in a 
meeting remotely or when a public body meets in person without providing the public physical 
access to the meeting location, the public body must then provide the public with adequate, 
alternative access to the meeting, which requires access to the proceedings in real time.  See 
OML 2020-111; OML 2020-100; Chapter 20, § 20(b).  However, a public body may hold in-
person meetings, as long as access to the meeting includes the opportunity to be physically 
present, as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  
See OML 2021-148; OML 2020-100; OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54.   
 
We acknowledge that the notice here incl
 uded two locations for the public to access the 
Board’s July 12 meeting – in person and via Zoom – and that the Board experienced technical 
difficulties such that the meeting was not accessible via Zoom.  However, the physical meeting  
location at the Mary Alley Municipal Building was accessible to any individual who wished to 
attend the meeting and all members of the Board were present at this location.  We have not been 
presented with any evidence that a member of the public sought to physically attend the July 12 
meeting and was denied access or that the Board limited the number of people who could be 
present in the meeting room.  Compare 2021-43 (public body violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it held a meeting in a location with a strict 12-person limit and turned away members of the 
public once the room was at capacity).  Because we have consistently stated that the Executive 
Order and Chapter 20 do not require that a public body provide remote access to its meetings if 
those meetings are instead held in-person at a location that is open and physically accessible to 
the public, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law here where it provided 
only in-person access.  See OML 2021-147.  We note that had the notice for the Board’s July 12 
meeting only included remote access, the public would not have been able to access the meeting 
and follow the Board’s discussions as they occurred where technical difficulties prevented the 
activation of the Zoom link.  See OML 2022-180 (finding public body in violation of Open 
Meeting Law when, despite learning that technical problems prevented the meeting from being 
streamed via the Zoom link listed on the notice, public body proceeded with meeting); OML 
2021-166 (finding public body in violation of Open Meeting Law when, despite learning that 
technical problems prevented the meeting from being streamed, which was the only way for the 
public to access the meeting, public body proceeded with meeting); OML 2021-63 (finding 
public body in violation of Open Meeting Law where the sole method of remote access listed on 
the notice experienced technical disruptions).  Although we do not find a violation here, we 
encourage public bodies to provide multiple means of access to their meetings when possible and 
remind public bodies that in the spirit of the Open Meeting Law, they should strive to make their 
meetings as accessible as possible.   
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting
Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Keny linne Kilague
KenyAnne Kilcoyne
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC.
Mark Pelletier - By email only:
Allen Waller - By email only:
Marblehead Board of Health c/o Andrew Petty, Director of Public Health - By email
only: pettya@marblehead.org
Marblehead Town Clerk - By email only: michaudr@marblehead.org
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. C. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.