===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
March 5, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 29 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Kelly T. Gonzalez, Esq. 
Long, Dipietro, and Gonzalez, LLP 
kgonzalez@long-law.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Gonzalez: 
 
This office received two complaints from Crystal Ng, a member of the Freetown-
Lakeville Regional School Committee (the “Committee”) on October 14 and December 2, 2024. 1 
The complaints allege that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The first complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about August 20, and you 
responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated September 9. The second complaint was 
originally filed with the Committee on or about October 29, and you responded on behalf of the 
Committee by letter dated December 3.2 The first complaint alleges that 1) the Committee held 
an improper executive session on July 31; 2) “notes” are not available for executive sessions; and 
3) Committee members engaged in unprofessional behavior, bullying, and harassment. The 
second complaint relates to the Committee’s September 4 open session meeting and raises 
allegations related to the Committee censuring the Complainant during the meeting. The second 
complaint also alleges that Committee members deliberated outside of a posted meeting 
regarding the censure.    
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing in executive session on July 31 topics that were not appropriate for executive session 
and topics that were not identified in the announcement prior to convening in executive session. 
Additionally, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by creating insufficient 
meeting minutes for the July 31 executive session. We decline to review various allegations 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 We remined the Committee of its obligation to respond to Open Meeting Law complaints within 14 business days. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
raised in the first complaint and decline to formally review the second complaint in its entirety. 
In reaching our determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the Committee’s 
responses and documents provided therewith including the minutes of the July 31 executive 
session, the requests for further review, and a rebuttal the Complainant sent to our office on 
December 31. 
 
I. The First Complaint  
 
a. The Committee Violated the Open Meeting Law on July 31 When it Discussed 
Topics in Executive Session That Were not Appropriate for Executive Session 
and Topics That Had Not Been Identified in the Announcement Prior to 
Convening in Executive Session. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for one or more of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting 
Law, provided that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for 
the executive session, “stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called.” G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); see also 
District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“A 
precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary under the open 
meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public that the [public body] would 
conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so 
was proper or improper.”). One enumerated purpose allows a public body to convene in 
executive session “[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion 
personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion 
personnel.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”).3  
 
The executive session purposes, as exceptions to the general rule that meetings of a 
public body shall be open, are narrowly construed. See McRea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 
637, 641 (2008). When meeting in executive session, a public body may only address subjects 
that fit within one of the ten enumerated purposes and that relate to the narrow executive session 
purpose the public body cited when entering executive session. See OML 2024-105. It is 
incumbent upon the public body to ensure that its discussions in executive session do not stray 
from the lawful purpose for which the executive session was called. See; OML 2024-52; OML 
2021-80; OML 2010-6.4  
 
The complaint alleges that although the Committee convened in executive session on July 
31 for the stated purpose of discussing strategy with respect to contract negotiations with the 
superintendent of schools, the Committee instead discussed in executive session the results of a 
 
3 When convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2, public bodies generally should identify, both on the 
meeting notice and in the open session announcement, the name of the specific nonunion personnel that is the 
subject of discussion, unless disclosure would compromise the purpose for secrecy. See OML 2022-233; OML 
2019-32; OML 2015-193; OML 20 16-70. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
public survey regarding the superintendent. The complaint further alleges that while in executive 
session on July 31 the Committee discussed an alleged violation of the Open Meeting Law by the 
Superintendent Evaluation Subcommittee and an Open Meeting Law complaint purportedly filed 
with the Regional Finance Subcommittee.  
 
In its response, the Committee acknowledges that its discussions in executive session on 
July 31 “were more closely related to the Superintendent’s evaluation . . . and the connection to 
negotiations were too tenuous to be properly discussed under the negotiation exemption.” Based 
on the minutes of the July 31 executive session, which have been released to the public, the 
Committee also discussed a Regional Finance Committee meeting, a topic that, according to the 
meeting minutes, was not identified in the announcement prior to convening in executive 
session. Based on the information provided, we find that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by discussing matters that were inappropriate for executive session and matters 
that, even if appropriate, were not identified in the announcement prior to convening in executive 
session. See OML 2022-201 (discussion of employee’s job performance and possible 
disciplinary action not appropriate for executive session under Purpose 2); OML 2021-45 
(discussion of professional competence and evaluations inappropriate for executive session); 
OML 2021-175 (finding that a public body improperly discussed matters in executive session 
that would have otherwise been appropriate but were not included in the announcement prior to 
convening in executive session). Typically, when a public body has discussed matters in 
executive session that did not fit within any of the statutory purposes, we order release of the 
minutes of the executive session. Here, we do not order this remedial action because the 
Committee has already released the minutes to the public.  
 
b. The Committee Violated the Open Meeting Law by Creating Insufficient Minutes 
for Its July 31 Executive Session Meeting.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions,” and requires that minutes include, among other 
things, “a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits 
used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the 
record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See 
OML 2013-64. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough 
detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the 
minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106. Minutes of 
executive sessions must include the same level of detail as is required for open session minutes. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2020-53; OML 2022-189 (finding that even if information 
discussed during an executive session may properly be withheld from the public, the public body 
is not excused from the obligation to create accurate minutes of the meeting).  
 
The complaint alleges that “no meeting notes are available” for executive sessions. In the 
request for further review of the complaint, the Complainant further asserts that, “We have yet to 
have a consistent note-taker in the Executive Session. The meeting minutes appear, and we vote. 
They are sparse, contain no detail, and must be posted promptly.” Although the Complainant 
raises concerns about notes and notetaking, we construe the allegation more broadly to allege 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
that the minutes of the July 31 executive session are insufficiently detailed.5 We agree. We find 
that the minutes of the July 31 executive session are insufficient where they include no summary 
whatsoever of the discussions held and instead simply identify the two topics that were 
discussed. We order the Committee, within 30 days of the date of this letter, to amend the 
minutes of the July 31 executive session to comply with the requirements of the Open Meeting 
Law as discussed above.   
 
c. We Decline to Review the Remainder of the Allegations Raised in the First 
Complaint. 
 
 The first complaint raises various allegations of unproductive, unprofessional, racist, and 
sexist behavior as well as bullying and harassment. The Division of Open Government’s review 
concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Although the Division 
encourages professionalism and civility, allegations regarding unprofessionalism, incivility, and 
harassment, even if true, do not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 
Declination 2-14-2025 (Freetown-Lakeville Regional School Committee); OML 2018-91 
(explaining that gender-based harassment complaints should be filed with the Massachusetts 
Commission Against Discrimination); OML 2019-166 (explaining that “[a]n allegation of 
unprofessional conduct or incivility towards a member of the Commission or the public does not 
constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law”). Therefore, we decline to review allegations 
that Committee members engaged in unproductive, unprofessional, racist, and sexist behavior as 
well as bullying and harassment where these allegations, even if true, do not constitute violations 
of the Open Meeting Law.  
 
II. The Second Complaint 
 
We decline to review the second complaint in its entirety where it was not timely filed 
with the Committee. To be considered timely, a complaint must be filed with the public body 
within 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged violation could not 
have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed with the public body 
within 30 days of the date on which the alleged violation could reasonably have been discovered. 
940 CMR 29.05(4). When reviewing the timeliness of a complaint we consider when the action 
that is alleged to have violated the Open Meeting Law was reasonably discoverable, not when an 
individual complainant became aware of the action or of the requirements of the Open Meeting 
Law. See OML Declination 12-18-20 (Pembroke Board of Health); OML Declination 5-21-12 
(Montague Board of Selectmen). Events that occur during an open session meeting can 
reasonably be discovered at the time they occur. See OML Declination 8-5-2021 (Ashland Select 
Board); OML Declination 2-13-2020 (Westminster Planning Board); OML Declination 3-11-13 
(Abington Conservation Commission).  
 
 
5 The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body have a consistent notetaker or a notetaker at all; 
therefore, failure to have a notetaker, alone, does not constitute a violate the Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting 
Law does require that public bodies create and maintain accurate meeting minutes. The Committee is obligated to 
comply with this requirement and should ensure that its process for creating meeting minutes allows it to do so. For 
example, the Committee could use a notetaker, audio recording, automated transcription, or other means of 
capturing the discussions held and decisions made during its meetings to ensure that accurate minutes can be 
created.      
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
The second complaint relates to the Committee censuring the Complainant during the 
Committee’s September 4 open session meeting. We understand the complaint to allege that the 
censure was originally scheduled to occur in executive session and that the Complainant did not 
receive proper notice of the executive session.6 We also understand the complaint to allege that 
the executive session was canceled four and a half hours prior to the meeting and the censure 
occurred in open session instead. Finally, the complaint alleges that Committee members 
deliberated outside of a posted meeting regarding the censure, asserting that “[t]he Censure’s 
collaborative and almost scripted unity led me to believe that these members, more likely than 
not, met or discussed the topic outside of any session.” Because the events that form the basis of 
the complaint were discoverable on September 4, we find the complaint untimely where it was 
filed with the Committee on October 29, more than 30 days after September 4. 
 
Finally, the second complaint also raises concerns of unprofessional and uncivil behavior 
as well as violations of the regional school agreement, the Complainant’s civil rights, and a 
student’s privacy rights. To the extent these were intended as additional allegations, we decline 
to review these allegations as well where, even if true, they would not constitute violations of the 
Open Meeting Law. See OML 2022-53, n.2 (declining to review allegations that a public body 
violated the complainant’s civil rights or defamed the complainant); OML 2020-41 (declining to 
review whether the public body violated other laws or its own policy). 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by discussing in executive session on July 31 topics that were not appropriate for executive 
session and topics that were not identified in the announcement prior to convening in executive 
session. Additionally, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by creating 
insufficient meeting minutes for its July 31 executive session. We order the Committee’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar future 
violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. Additionally, we order the 
Committee, within 30 days of the date of this letter, to amend the minutes of the July 31 
executive session to include an accurate and sufficiently detailed summary of the discussions that 
were held, in accordance with the guidance provided above. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 When a public body will convene in executive session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) to “discuss the reputation, 
character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss 
the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or 
individual,” the individual to be discussed has certain rights, including the right to written notice 48 hours prior to 
the executive session.  
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: John Burke, Chair, Freetown-Lakeville Regional School Committee  
(via email: johnburke@freelake.org) 
Freetown-Lakeville Regional School Committee (via email: SC@freelake.org) 
 Crystal Ng (via email: ) 
Cheryl C.A. Estrella, Town Clerk, Freetown (via email: townclerk@freetownma.gov) 
Lillian Drane, Town Clerk, Lakeville (via email: ldrane@lakevillema.org) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
