===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
October 17, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 190 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Jason R. Talerman, Esq. 
Mead,Talerman & Costa, LLC 
30 Green Street 
Newburyport, MA 01950 
 
jay@mtclawyers.com 
     
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Talerman:  
 
On August 8, 2024, this office received a complaint from Tim Wood of the Cape Cod 
Chronicle (the “Chronicle”), alleging that the Chatham Affordable Housing Trust Fund Board of 
Trustees (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint 
was originally filed with the Board on July 9.
1  You responded on behalf of the Board by letter 
dated July 22.  The complainant alleges that notice of the Board’s June 26 meeting was 
insufficiently specific because it did not list as a topic of discussion a statement Board member 
David Oppenheim made concerning a letter to the editor published in the Chronicle.     
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint, the response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We also viewed a recording of the 
Board’s June 26 meeting2 and reviewed the minutes of the Board’s June 11 meeting.  We 
reviewed the letter to the editor referenced in the complaint, as well as articles published in the 
Chronicle relative to affordable housing projects proposed for Main Street, Chatham, including 
an article published June 12, “Pennrose Eyed To Develop Chatham Housing.”  We reviewed 
correspondence and materials forwarded to us by Board member Karolyn McClelland.  Finally, 
we communicated with you via email. 
 
  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2024. 
2 The recording can be accessed at https://play.champds.com/chathamma/event/1818. 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
  
We find the facts as follows.  The Board and the Select Board together comprised an 
evaluation committee, appointed to review proposals for affordable housing developments on 
two separate properties in Chatham, one on Main Street and the other on Meetinghouse Road.  
By a vote of 6-1-0, the evaluation committee recommended Pennrose LLC (“Pennrose”) to serve 
as the developer of rental townhouses at the Main Street property.3  Another developer, Housing 
Assistance Corporation (“HAC”) had submitted a competing proposal that contemplated home 
ownership, and would have required a higher financial contribution by the town.  Preference of 
the Pennrose plan was not universal.  Public comment at a joint meeting of the Board and Select 
Board on June 11 reflected diverse opinions about the proposals.  On June 20, the Chronicle 
published an editorial, which spoke favorably of HAC’s “strong plan” and cautioned that 
Pennrose “just might not be right for Chatham.” 
 
On June 21, at 12:45 p.m., the Board posted notice online of a meeting to go forward on 
Wednesday, June 26 at 6:00 p.m.  The notice included four agenda items: public comment, 
comments from the chair, a workshop regarding a housing production plan, and an executive 
session to discuss property at 558 Crowell Road.  On the afternoon of June 26, prior to the 
meeting, the Chronicle published a letter to the editor authored by four individuals, including two 
members of the Board, Bruce Beane and Karolyn McClelland.
4   In the letter, the authors spoke 
positively of the HAC proposal, and proposed that it be presented to voters.  Between 4:00 p.m. 
and 5:30 p.m. on June 26, Board member Oppenheim called the Board chair, Michael Schell, and 
described the contents of the letter.   
 
The Board convened on June 26.  After introductory remarks and confirmation that no 
member of the public wished to speak, Board chair Schell ceded his “comments from the chair” 
to Board member Oppenheim.  Mr. Oppenheim spoke for approximately five minutes.  He stated 
that when he joined the Board, he expected other members to have strong opinions; he 
acknowledged members’ “passion for affordable housing.”  He stated that he accepted the 
Board’s decisions, even when he did not agree with them.  Mr. Oppenheim then addressed the 
letter to the editor, which he took to suggest that the evaluation committee reconsider its 
selection of Pennrose as the developer of the Main Street project.  Mr. Oppenheim continued: “I 
think that’s bad faith.  I resent it as a person that has been working and trusting people.”  The 
letter was “an insult to this Board and an insult to the work that we have all done together,” 
according to Mr. Oppenheim.  He concluded by saying that the two members who contributed to 
the letter to the editor should consider resigning from the Board. 
 
After Mr. Oppenheim concluded his remarks, Chair Schell stated he would “reclaim my 
chairman’s comments.”  He acknowledged members of the Board may wish to respond to Mr. 
Oppenheim’s comments but stated that his first goal as chair is to “keep this Board together.”  
Chair Schell considered the issue closed and proceeded to the items on to the agenda.  When 
 
3According to minutes of a joint meeting of the Board and the Select Board on June 11, all 10 members of the 
evaluation committee submitted their scores but only 7 members were present for the vote. 
4 It is our understanding that the online edition of the Chronicle, a weekly newspaper, is usually available on 
Wednesdays and that the print edition follows, either later that day or the next morning. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Karolyn McClelland asked to speak (presumably in response to Mr. Oppenheim’s comments), 
Chair Schell denied the request, stating “we’re done, we’re done.” 
   
DISCUSSION 
  
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s 
discussion.  See OML 2024-180; OML 2019-134; OML 2015- 35.5  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an 
informed decision whether to attend the meeting in order to observe the discussion regarding a 
topic of interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22.   
 
Topics that arise less than 48 hours before the meeting, and were not reasonably 
anticipated, may be considered by the public body, even if they were not listed in the meeting 
notice.  See OML 2018-119; OML 2013-61; OML 2011-36.  Although public bodies may 
discuss a truly unanticipated topic that is not included on the meeting notice, the Attorney 
General strongly recommends that public bodies, as a matter of best practice, table discussion of 
unanticipated topics that might be of significant interest to the public so that the topics can be 
included on the notice for a future meeting.  See OML 2024-180; OML 2018-119; OML 2013-
87.  When reviewing whether a topic was anticipated, we look to whether it was reasonably 
anticipated for discussion at the particular meeting at issue.  See OML 2024-180; OML 2023-
101; OML 2022-203.  The Open Meeting Law does not require that the chair of a public body 
guess what will occur at a meeting or anticipate the course of deliberations.  See OML 2024-180; 
OML 2021-39; OML 2020-55; OML 2018-134.  Even where the chair considers that a topic is of 
interest to the public body and may be discussed at some time, it need not be included on the 
notice if the chair does not anticipate that it will be discussed at the meeting for which the notice 
is posted.  Compare OML 2022-121(topic of flag policy was not reasonably anticipated where 
committee and chair were generally considering adoption of flag policy but did not anticipate 
raising it at meeting in question), with OML 2024-180 (where chair invited panel of speakers to 
address particular issues during public comment period of meeting, the subject matter was 
anticipated). 
 
 At the Board’s June 26 meeting, David Oppenheim spoke in response to a letter to the 
editor that had been published in the Chronicle that afternoon.  During his five-minute statement, 
Mr. Oppenheim remained focused on the subject of the letter, to wit, the competing plans 
submitted by HAC and Pennrose, and his reaction to the position taken by his fellow Board 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
members who signed the letter.  Although the affordable housing plans had been longstanding 
items before the Board, and there were ongoing discussions within the community about the 
plans, as reflected in the Chronicle’s June 20 editorial, it was the letter to the editor published on 
June 26 which prompted Mr. Oppenheim to speak at the June 26 meeting.  There is no evidence 
that Chair Schell knew of the letter prior to its publication on the afternoon of the meeting.  To 
the contrary, according to the information before us, it was Mr. Oppenheim who informed Chair 
Schell of the letter only an hour or two prior to the meeting.  Because the Chair could not 
anticipate the letter, or Mr. Oppenheim’s reaction to it, 48 hours prior to the June 26 meeting, it 
was not required to be included on the meeting notice.  Although best practice might have 
warranted deferring the discussion to a later meeting, the Chair was not required to do so, and we 
find no violation of the Open Meeting Law.   
 
Although we find no violation, we take this opportunity to address an argument raised in 
the Board’s response.  The Board maintains that “upon the conclusion of [Mr. Oppenheim’s] 
commentary, the Chair announced that no deliberation would occur, thereby precluding the 
possibility of a wide ranging discussion that was not listed on the Board’s agenda.”  Pursuant to 
the Open Meeting Law, Mr. Oppenheim’s statement itself constituted deliberation, even without 
follow-up discussion by the Board.  See OML 2024-23 (noting that “the expression of an opinion 
of one public body member on matters within the body’s jurisdiction to a quorum of a public 
body is a deliberation, even if no other public body member responds”).  However, as noted, the 
deliberation was not reasonably anticipated 48 hours prior to the meeting. 
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the ways alleged.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have 
any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
  
cc: Tim Wood (via email: )  
 Chatham Town Clerk (via email:  jsmith@chatham-ma.gov) 
 Chatham Housing and Sustainability Director (via email: gmcpherson@chatham-ma.gov) 
  
  

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 