===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
August 31, 2011 
OML 2011-36 
Mr. Paul L. Kenny, Town Counsel 
278 Old Sudbury Road 
Sudbury, MA 01776 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint/T. Dufault 
Dear Attorney Kenny: 
This office received a complaint filed by Ms. Tammie R. Dufault ("Complainant"), dated 
December 23, 2010 alleging that the Sudbury Board of Selectmen ("Board") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that during its meeting 
on September 21, 2010, the Board deliberated on a topic not included in the posted meeting 
notice when it considered and voted on "grandfathering in all adults under the age of 26 to 
provide ongoing healthcare...until July 1, 2011." The complainant states that she learned of the 
Board's discussion after reading a report in a local newspaper on September 26, 2010. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Sudbury Board of Selectmen on October 24, 2010. The 
Board sent its response to the Complainant on November 5, 2010. 
We reviewed the complaint; the Board's response; the meeting notice for the September 
21, 2010 Board meeting; the minutes from the September 21, 2010 Board meeting; the video of 
the September 21, 2010 Board meeting; and a two-page memo from the Assistant Town 
Manager to the Town Manager, dated September 21, 2010. Based upon our review, we find that 
the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
FACTS 
The Board scheduled a meeting for September 21, 2010. The third item on the meeting 
notice was listed as "7:45 Reports from Town Manager." Meeting Notice, September 21, 2010. 
The meeting notice did not specify what topics the Town Manager would address. Additionally, 
the meeting notice included a detailed listing of topics under the heading "Consent Calendar" 
which the Board anticipated voting on during the meeting. The list did not include references to 
a vote about health insurance. At the bottom of the notice is the following statement: "These 
agenda items are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair which may be discussed at the 
meeting. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be 
brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by law." The inclusion of this caption on all 
===PAGE 2===
Board meeting notices is the common practice of the Board. 
The meeting convened at 7:34 p.m. Shortly thereafter the Town Manager distributed a 
memo to the Board from the Assistant Town Manager "dated September 21, 2010, regarding 
eligibility revisions which will be required as part of the Affordable Care Act and the recently 
approved Federal health reform legislation." Board Minutes, September 21, 2010. Specifically, 
the memo addressed grandfathering the adult children of town employees into the town's health 
insurance plan. See Memo, September 21, 2010. It provided background information about the 
federal health care law's requirements; arguments for and against grandfathering adult children; 
and a recommendation. Id. Following distribution of the memo, the Town Manager noted that 
prior to the start of the meeting she had mentioned the memo to the Chair and asked the Chair 
about including it on the agenda for the October 5, 2010 Board meeting "because it had not been 
included on the agenda for tonight." See Video, September 21, 2010. 
The Town Manager then "present[ed] the information for the Board to consider when 
Sudbury should implement the required changes for a small group, who may be caught without 
[health care]coverage for the next eight months." Board Minutes, September 21, 2010. The 
Town Manager explained to the Board that earlier in the day she asked the Assistant Town 
Manager to research the issue and prepare the memo. See Video. In her remarks, the Town 
Manager stated that the drafting of the memo was prompted by recent communications from 
town employees who had been notified by their health plan that coverage for their adult children 
would be phased out on November 1. The Town Manager also stated that there was some 
urgency associated with the Board's consideration because a delay until the October 5 th  Board 
meeting may result in time constraints that would make it difficult to find coverage before 
November 1. Id. The Town Manager concluded her remarks by recommending to the Board 
that the Board "now grandfather into coverage the adult children currently on active plans so that 
families know they will have coverage and do not spend unnecessary time researching other 
options." Id. 
A discussion among the Board and with the Town Manager and Assistant Town Manager 
ensued during which the Board inquired into matters such as cost; the number of adult children 
the town could anticipate being added; and the funding mechanism to pay for claims. During the 
discussion, the Chair of the Board stated that a delay until October 5th  may pose a hardship to the 
families affected by the change. The total discussion lasted for approximately 15 minutes. The 
Board then voted "to allow adult children who were enrolled on their parent's health plan as of 
September 23, 2010 to remain on the family plan until age 26 or until the adult child is offered 
health benefits through his/her employer." Board Minutes, September 21, 2010.  
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30, §20(b) states in relevant part that, "[e]xcept in an 
emergency, in addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice 
of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal 
holidays... Notice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the 
date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed at the meeting." Any topic discussed at a meeting, which was reasonably 
anticipated by the chair of the public body, must be listed in a meeting notice at least 48 hours in 
advance of the meeting. Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with 
"sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
===PAGE 3===
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03. 
Here, there is no dispute that the notice of the meeting was posted 48 hours in advance of 
the meeting. Rather, the issues that we must determine are two-fold. First, whether the Chair 
should have reasonably anticipated that the issue of grandfathering the adult children of town 
employees into the town's health plan would be discussed during the meeting. Second, we must 
consider whether a discussion that ensues about a topic that is not listed on the meeting notice 
constitutes a deliberation in contravention of the Open Meeting Law. 
The Board contends that it could not have anticipated that extending benefits to children 
of town employees up to age 26 would be a topic for discussion during the September 21st  
meeting. The memo that was the basis for the discussion "was only prepared for presentation to 
the Selectmen on the date of the meeting." Response, November 5, 2010. The memo was 
presented as part of the section of the agenda reserved for the Town Manager to speak to the 
Board. Id. The issue discussed in the memo was a new matter raised for the first time during the 
meeting. 
Based on our review, we agree that the Board could not reasonably anticipate that the 
Town Manager would raise the issue of grandfathering adult children into existing health plans 
when she delivered her report on the evening of September 21, 2010. The memo outlining the 
issue had been prepared earlier on the day of the meeting because town employees had contacted 
the Town Manager's office in response to being notified of a cancellation of benefits. See 
Minutes, September 21, 2010. The memo was addressed not to the Board, but rather to the 
Town Manager, from the Assistant Town Manager. The creation of the memo was at the 
direction of the Town Manager. See Video, September 21, 2010. The Town Manager 
acknowledged in her opening remarks that she had raised the issue of the memo with the Chair 
just prior to the meeting and suggested it might be an appropriate agenda item for the October 5th 
Board meeting. Accordingly, we agree that the Chair could not have reasonably anticipated 
discussion on the topic during the September 21, 2010 Board meeting. 
Having established that the Board could not have reasonably anticipated that 
grandfathering the adult children of town employees would be discussed during the meeting, we 
next consider whether the Board's deliberation was nevertheless a violation of the Open Meeting 
Law. 
As previously stated, the Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post a meeting 
notice 48 hours in advance of a meetin  •  and include a "listin  •  of to ics that the chair reasonabl 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). When a topic arises that was 
not listed in a meeting notice, and which the chair did not reasonably anticipate 48 hours before 
the meeting, the public body may still address the topic.1  However, we strongly recommend that 
'See also the section of our office's website that includes Frequently Asked Questions pertaining to the Open 
Meeting Law, www.mass.govlago/openmeeting:  
Q: May a public body consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice? 
A: Yes, if it is a topic that the chair did not reasonably anticipate 48 hours before the meeting. If a meeting topic is 
proposed after the meeting notice is posted, the public body is encouraged to update its posting to provide the public 
with as much notice as possible of what subjects will be discussed during a meeting. 
===PAGE 4===
public bodies carefully consider the implications of deliberating on a topic that the public is 
unaware will be the subject of discussion. The purpose of the Open Meeting Law is to "eliminate 
much of the secrecy surrounding the deliberations and decisions on which public policy is 
based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge,  376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Therefore, 
whenever possible, we encourage public bodies to postpone deliberations until the unanticipated 
subject may be included on a future meeting notice. 
Here, the Town Manager acknowledged at the beginning of her remarks that she had 
talked to the Chair about putting the topic of grandfathering adult children on the agenda for the 
Board's next meeting, scheduled for October 5th• See Video; Minutes, September 21, 2010. 
However, the Town Manager also stated that there was some urgency to the Board discussing the 
matter given the anticipated timeline for making alternative arrangements in the event the Board 
voted against the extension of benefits. See Video, September 21, 2010. The Board's discussion 
initially focused on whether a decision needed to be made during the September 21st  meeting, or 
could be delayed until October 5th. The Chair commented that if the Board delayed a decision 
until October 5th, the impacted families may face a hardship. Id. From that point the Board 
engaged in a substantive discussion about the cost implications of grandfathering these 
individuals. 
We fmd that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by engaging in the 
discussion about grandfathering the adult children of town employees into the town's health 
insurance plan. However, in the future the best practice would be to postpone discussions on 
topics not listed on the meeting notice that are more than administrative or procedural 
discussions. The postponement of substantive discussions until such time as they may be 
appropriately noticed allows for transparency in a public body's proceedings and is most 
consistent with the spirit of the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION  
In conclusion, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§18-25. However, in the likely event that a topic which is not part of the posted meeting notice 
comes up again at a future meeting, we advise the Board to consider whether it may be 
appropriate to postpone its discussion. Barring a justified emergency, we recommend that 
deliberations on topics not included on a posted agenda be delayed to the next meeting in an 
effort to ensure transparency. Please do not hesitate to contact me at (617) 963-2150 with any 
questions regarding this determination. 
Sincerely. 
Brine McBride 
Assistant Attorney General 
cc: 	 Ms. Tammie Dufault 
Sudbury Board of Selectmen 
Ms. Maureen Valente, Town Manager 