===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
June 24, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 66 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Allison Valton, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
 
allison@mtclawyers.com 
    
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Valton:  
 
On December 19, 2025, this office received two complaints from Roxanne Gunther, 
alleging that the Monson Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The complaints were originally filed with the Board on October 16.  You 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated October 29.  The complaints allege that the 
Board (1) deliberated outside a posted meeting; and (2) discussed a topic that was not listed with 
sufficient specificity on a meeting notice. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaints, the response to 
the complaints, and the complainant’s requests for further review.  We also reviewed the notice 
and minutes of a meeting the Board held on October 14.  Finally, we viewed a recording of the 
October 14 meeting.2 
 
FACTS 
  
We find the facts as follows.  On or about October 9,3 the Board posted notice of a 
meeting to be held on October 14.  The notice included as a topic “Follow Up on Comments 
from Prior Select Board Meetings.”  This topic appears to have been a recurring entry in the 
meeting notices for at least twelve months leading up to the October 14 meeting.   
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates hereinafter refer to 2025. 
2 We accessed the recording at https://m-pact.tv/maestrov/app/client/webSite/index.php?s=3&category=2.  
3 The notice reflects that it was received by the Town Clerk on October 9 at 8:15 a.m. but does not reflect the date 
and time that the notice was posted.  The Board is reminded that “[t]he date and time that a meeting notice is posted 
shall be conspicuously recorded thereon or therewith.”  940 CMR 29.03(1)(d). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The October 14 meeting took place as scheduled.  Approximately ten minutes into the 
meeting, Board Chair Peter Warren, who was sitting to the right of the other two members, 
turned to his left and asked, “Any follow up comments from the last meeting?”  Member Patricia 
Oney responded, “I have one” and proceeded to read from a prepared statement.  She shared that 
the complainant recorded the Board’s September 23 meeting without informing the Board Chair 
and posted the recording online.  Member Oney, as an elected official, did not claim an 
expectation of privacy.  However, she stated that residents who attended the September 23 
meeting did have an expectation of privacy and that they may have a “course of action” against 
the complainant for recording them at the meeting because to do so was a violation of the law.  
She explained that if any resident “feels that their privacy was violated, I can only suggest that 
they follow up however they feel that they should but the Attorney General’s office is the office 
that deals with Open Meeting Law issues.” 
 
DISCUSSION 
  
I. The Board did not deliberate outside a public meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that all deliberations of 
a public body occur during a properly noticed meeting that is open to the public, unless an 
executive session has been properly convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18; 20(a) & (b); OML 2026-
21.4  The Law defines “deliberation” broadly as any communication “between or among a 
quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.   
 
The complaint alleges that Chair Warren directly elicited Member Oney’s comments at 
the October 14 meeting, knowing what she would say.  In support of her allegation, the 
complainant maintains that Chair Warren looked directly at Member Oney when he asked if 
there were any follow-up comments from the last meeting.  The Board denies that Chair Warren 
knew that Member Oney would make a statement about the September 23 recording.  Absent 
sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s account of the facts.  See OML 
2023-121; OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141.  We have viewed the recording of the October 14 
meeting.  Chair Warren does look to his left when asking if there were any follow-up comments.  
However, we cannot say unequivocally that the question was directed to Member Oney 
specifically.  Moreover, it was the Board’s long-standing practice to include the item “Follow Up 
on Comments from Prior Select Board Meetings” as a discussion topic, making it less likely that 
the question was posed to Member Oney as a staged exchange to skirt proper notice.  The 
evidence is insufficient to overcome the Board’s denial of deliberation outside a meeting.  
Therefore, we find no violation as to this allegation. 
  
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
II. The recording of the September 23 meeting was not reasonably anticipated as a 
topic of discussion at the October 14 meeting. 
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Notices must include “a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  Id.  The 
list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently 
specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the 
anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2023-3; OML 2019-134; OML 
2015-35.  The Open Meeting Law requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient 
specificity so that the public can make an informed decision whether to attend the meeting to 
observe the discussion regarding a topic of interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 
2018-22. 
 
The Open Meeting Law does not require that the chair of a public body guess what will 
occur at a meeting or anticipate the course of deliberations.  See OML 2021-39; OML 2020-55; 
OML 2018-134.  A public body may discuss a truly unanticipated topic not included on the 
meeting notice, although the Attorney General strongly recommends that public bodies, as a 
matter of best practice, table discussion of unanticipated topics that might be of significant 
interest to the public so that the topics can be included on the notice for a future meeting.  See 
OML 2024-180; OML 2019-131; OML 2013-87.   
 
The Board maintains that the Chair did not anticipate that the Board would discuss the 
recording of the September 23 meeting at the October 14 meeting.  As with the allegation of 
improper deliberation, the evidence is insufficient to overcome the presumption in favor of the 
Board’s account of the facts.  Therefore, we find that Chair Warren did not anticipate a 
discussion of the recording during the October 14 meeting.  Therefore, the Board did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law when it discussed the recording, even though it was not listed as a topic 
of discussion.   
 
To the extent Ms. Gunther alleges that Member Oney violated the Open Meeting Law by 
encouraging members of the public to file Open Meeting Law complaints against Ms. Gunther, 
we decline to review this allegation.  The Division of Open Government’s jurisdiction concerns 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  The Open Meeting Law does not govern the substance 
of a public body’s discussions.  See OML 2026-26; OML 2023-230; OML 2021-10.  We remind 
Member Oney, however, that the Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and 
individuals acting as public body members.  See OML 2025-180; OML Declination 5-16-19 
(Bourne Town Clerk); OML Declination 11-2-15 (Massachusetts Division of Marine Fisheries).  
An individual cannot be found in violation of the Open Meeting Law, except in their capacity as 
a public body member.5 
 
 
5 We note, in any event, that at the beginning of the September 23 meeting, the Chair announced that the meeting 
was being recorded. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f) (“After notifying the chair of the public body, any person may make a 
video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting . . . . At the beginning of the meeting, the chair shall inform 
other attendees of any recordings.”). 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Although we find no violation, we take this opportunity to provide the Board with further 
guidance regarding the preparation of meeting notices.   
 
First, we reiterate that best practice is to table unanticipated topics when possible so that 
they can be discussed following inclusion on a notice.  If someone other than the chair will 
present on a topic, especially if that individual is a fellow member of the public body, the chair 
should, as a best practice, solicit from the presenter details regarding the precise matters to be 
discussed and include such details on the meeting notice.  See OML 2025-3; OML 2018-33; 
OML 2012-19 (“[B]est practice dictates that the Chair make reasonable efforts to ascertain what 
the Superintendent plans to discuss and include all matters that are reasonably anticipated in the 
meeting notice.”).  If the individual who will give a report or statement is solely or jointly 
responsible for creating the meeting notice, then the notice must specifically list the topics that 
individual anticipates discussing in addition to any topics anticipated by the chair.  See OML 
2024-101; OML 2020-152. 
 
Second, we address the Board’s argument that the topic of the recording naturally flowed 
from the noticed topic “Follow Up on Comments from Prior Select Board Meetings.”  Where a 
public body’s discussion naturally flows from its consideration of a posted agenda topic, the 
notice was sufficient to inform the public of the discussion that occurred.  See OML 2026-26; 
OML 2023-26; OML 2021-37.  Here, however, the topic “Follow Up on Comments from Prior 
Select Board Meetings” likely was insufficiently specific.  See OML 2024-101 (“In general, a 
generic notice topic, such as ‘General Business,’ ‘New Business,’ ‘Old Business,’ or ‘Update,’ 
without additional information, will fail to meet the level of specificity required for a meeting 
notice.”).  See also OML 2021-126; OML 2019-92.  That a discussion naturally flowed from a 
noticed topic does not bring it into compliance with the Open Meeting Law if the noticed topic 
from which it flowed was itself insufficiently specific.   
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not  violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged in the complaints.   
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
  
 
Matth
ew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
cc: Roxanne Gunther (via e -mail: )  
 Monson Town Administrator (via e -mail: jwolowicz@monson-ma.gov) 
 Monson Select Board (via email:  townclerk@monson-ma.gov) 
  
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.   
