===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
March 9, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 32 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Tanya Dennis, Esq.  
Assistant Corporation Counsel  
City of Boston Law Department 
 
 
Robert Arcangeli, Esq. 
Assistant Corporation Counsel  
City of Boston Law Department 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Attorneys Dennis and Arcangeli: 
 
This office received a complaint from Martha McDonough on August 6, 2020,1 alleging 
that the Boston Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on May 27. 
Attorney Nicholas O’Neill, Assistant Corporation Counsel for the City of Boston, responded on 
behalf of the Commission by letter dated June 16.     
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, 
the Commission’s response, the requests for further review, and the notice for the Commission’s 
May 20 meeting. We also communicated with the Complainant via email.  
 
 
 
 
1 All dates in this determination are in 2020, unless otherwise stated.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We Decline to Review Allegations That Do Not Allege Violations of the Open 
Meeting Law. 
 
Several of the allegations raised in the complaint do not allege violations of the Open 
Meeting Law. These allegations include that the Commission 1) did not provide meeting 
materials or cause meeting materials to be provided to the public in advance of its May 20 
meeting; 2) did not meet virtually with members of the public prior to the May 20 meeting to 
discuss access issues; and 3) did not continue the May 20 meeting until the Complainant’s 
concerns could be addressed. These allegations, even if true, do not constitute violations of the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Division of Open Government’s statutory 
authority concerns compliance only with the Open Meeting Law, and we therefore decline to 
review these allegations. See OML 2019-85; OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing 
Authority Board of Commissioners).2  
 
Although we decline to review these allegations, we note that there is no requirement in 
the Open Meeting Law that a public body affirmatively provide copies of documents to the 
public before or at a meeting, or that documents be posted to a website prior to or after a 
meeting. Instead, documents used by a public body during an open session meeting must be 
provided in response to a public records request. See OML 2015-199; OML 2020-167; OML 
2018-140. Nonetheless, we encourage public bodies, whenever feasible, to provide meeting 
attendees with copies of all documents they intend to discuss, particularly where viewing such 
documents would help the public follow the body’s deliberations. Additionally, although a public 
body’s meetings must be accessible to individuals with disabilities, the Law does not require a 
public body to convene a meeting to discuss requests for accommodation.  
 
II. The Commission’s May 20 Meeting Was Accessible to the Public. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to 
the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a 
public body shall be open to the public”). Generally, access to a meeting must include the 
opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the 
members of the public body. See OML 2020-100; OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54. In addition, 
for a meeting to be truly “open to the public” it must be held at a location that is accessible to 
persons with disabilities. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); see also OML 2012-49 (stating that meetings 
of public bodies must be held in locations that are compliant with the Americans with 
Disabilities Act). 
  
On March 12, Governor Baker issued an executive order temporarily suspending certain 
provisions of the Open Meeting Law during the state of emergency created by the outbreak of 
the 2019 novel Coronavirus. See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting 
Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”). Relevant here, the Executive 
Order temporarily suspends the requirement under the Open Meeting Law that meetings be held 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
in locations that are physically accessible to the public, provided that the public body provides 
adequate, alternative means of public access.  
 
The Executive Order states that  
 
[a]dequate, alternative means of public access shall mean measures that provide 
transparency and permit timely and effective public access to the deliberations of 
the public body. Such means may include, without limitation, providing public 
access through telephone, internet, or satellite enabled audio or video conferencing 
or any technology that enables the public to clearly follow the proceedings of the 
public body while those activities are occurring. 
 
Executive Order at § 1. Additionally, our office has published guidance explaining that 
“‘[a]dequate, alternative means of access’ could include Zoom, a high-capacity telephone 
conference line, Facebook Live, YouTube Live, and broadcasting on live TV, including local 
cable access television.”3 
 
The Commission’s May 20 meeting was accessible through videoconferencing via Zoom 
as well as by telephone. We have previously determined that Zoom and telephone access qualify 
as “adequate, alternative means of access” in accordance with the Executive Order. See OML 
2020-111; OML 2021-10. Additionally, the notice for the May 20 meeting offered “[t]ranslation 
and Sign Language interpreters . . . upon prior request.” The Commission asserts that it did not 
receive any requests for translation services, nor any communication from members of the public 
informing the Commission that both videoconferencing and telephone access would be 
insufficient.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Commission failed to “make reasonable accommodation 
for residents who lack access to virtual technology,” and failed “to make reasonable 
accommodation for elderly or disabled residents, such as those with sight/hearing impairment.” 
We understand from the complaint as well as subsequent correspondence with the Complainant 
that the essence of the Complainant’s concerns relates to public participation during the public 
hearing portion of the May 20 meeting, and not to an inability to access the meeting more 
broadly; the Complainant has not asserted that anyone was unable to access the meeting due to 
disability. The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow public participation 
during its meetings, but rather provides that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public 
body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.” 
G.L. c. 30A § 20(f). The Division of Open Government enforces and interprets the Open 
Meeting Law only. The Open Meeting Law does not govern the requirements for conducting a 
public hearing nor does it guarantee a right to participate in a public hearing, and we therefore 
decline to review, and offer no opinion on, whether any actions taken by the Commission could 
be a violation of any separate law or regulation governing public hearings. See OML 2018-140.    
 
 
3 The Attorney General’s Updated Guidance on Holding Meetings During the COVID-19 State of Emergency, 
updated June 2, 2020, is available at https://www mass.gov/service-details/updated-guidance-on-holding- meetings-
during-the-covid-19-state-of-emergency. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission provided the public with 
adequate, alternative means of access to its May 20 meeting through Zoom and telephone in 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law and the Executive Order. See OML 2020-111. 
 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with 
our office or the Commission. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Chair of the Boston Conservation Commission c/o Nicholas Moreno, Executive Director 
(via email:   
 Boston Conservation Commission (via email:  
Martha McDonough (via email:  
  
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
