===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200
www.mass.gov/ago
April 17,2019 
OML 2019-32
Timothy Luff 
Assistant Superintendent 
Natick Public Schools 
13 East Central Street 
Natick, MA 01760
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Assistant Superintendent Luff:
This determination addresses two complaints that Ronald Alexander filed with this office 
on December 31 alleging that the Natick School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 Between March and October, Mr. Alexander filed 
approximately 600 separate open meeting law complaints with the Committee. This 
determination addresses complaints #69 and #78. The complaints were originally filed with the 
Committee on May 17 and May 21 and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter 
dated November 29, following mediation and then an extension of time granted by our office.2 
Complaint #69 alleges that 1) the notice for the Committee’s April 9 meeting lacked sufficient 
detail because it failed to identify the individual against whom complaints were filed and the 
nonunion personnel to be discussed in executive session, and 2) that the minutes failed to record 
the roll call vote of each member when it convened in executive session. Complaint #78 alleges 
that the notice for the Committee’s April 23 meeting lacked sufficient detail because it failed to 
identify the individual against whom complaints were filed and the nonunion personnel to be 
discussed in executive session.
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to identify on its April 9 notice the specific nonunion personnel that would be discussed 
during the executive session, and by failing to record a roll call vote in the April 9 minutes. We 
find no evidence, however, that the Committee violated the law in the other ways alleged in the
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018, unless otherwise indicated.
2 The parties engaged in mediation pursuant to 940 CMR 29.05(9), which concluded unsuccessfully in August. This 
office granted the Committee an extension until November 30 to respond to these complaints.

===PAGE 2===
two complaints. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the 
Committee’s response to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the notices and open and executive session minutes of the 
Committee’s April 9 and April 23 meetings. Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on 
February 1, 2019.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Committee duly posted notice for a meeting to be held 
on April 9 at 6:00 P.M. The notice included the following topics: Public Speak; Action Items; 
Executive Session; and Future Meeting Dates/Agenda Items. Specifically, the notice listed two 
Executive Session topics: 1) to discuss “complaints or charges brought against a public officer, 
employee, staff member or individual (open meeting law complaints filed . . .)” and then 
identified seven dates in March when those complaints were filed; and 2) to discuss contract 
negotiations with nonunion personnel.
The April 9 meeting was held as planned. The Committee first convened in open session 
at 6:00 P.M. and reorganized. It then approved a unanimous vote by roll call to convene in 
executive session to discuss contract negotiations with nonunion personnel and complaints or 
charges brought against a public officer, employee, staff member or individual. Committee 
member Hayley Sonnebom stated that these complaints referred specifically to open meeting law 
complaints, two of which were filed on March 23 and five of which were filed on March 27.
The minutes of this meeting read “By roll call vote all members were in favor of entering 
Executive Session for these purposes.”
During the executive session, the Committee discussed the seven open meeting law 
complaints filed between March 23 and March 27 and unanimously voted to have the school 
administration and/or the school attorney respond to the complaints on behalf of the Committee. 
The Committee then discussed one-time compensation payments for the Interim Superintendent 
and Assistant Superintendent for work performed outside of their job descriptions. The 
Committee reconvened in open session at 7:27 P.M. and discussed the remaining noticed topics.
The Committee duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on April 23 at 6:00 P.M. The 
notice included the following topics: Public Speak; Action Items; Executive Session; and Future 
Meeting Dates/Agenda Items. Specifically, the notice listed three Executive Session topics: 1) to 
discuss “complaints or charges brought against a public officer, employee, staff member or 
individual (open meeting law complaints filed .. .)” and then identified several specific dates in 
April when those complaints were filed; 2) to “discuss strategy with respect to litigation 
(Superior Court Civil Action No. 2018-1115 - Corey Spaulding and Karin Sutter v. Town of 
Natick School Committee, Lisa Tabenkin, in her capacity as Chair of the Natick School 
Committee, and AnnaNolin, in her capacity as Interim Superintendent of Natick Public 
Schools)”; and 3) to “conduct strategy session in preparation for contract negotiations with 
nonunion personnel (Interim Superintendent).”
The April 23 meeting was held as planned. The Committee first convened in open 
session at 6:00 P.M. and approved a unanimous vote by roll call to convene in executive session 
to discuss the three topics listed on the notice: complaints or charges brought against a public
2

===PAGE 3===
officer, employee, staff member or individual, litigation, and contract negotiations with nonunion 
personnel. Committee Chair Lisa Tabenkin read the exact language that was listed on the notice 
for each executive session topic. The minutes of this meeting include the vote of each 
Committee member.
During the executive session, the Committee discussed the 22 open meeting law 
complaints filed between April 9 and April 17 and unanimously voted to have the school 
administration and/or the school attorney respond to the complaints on behalf of the Committee. 
The Committee then discussed contract terms for the interim superintendent and the Superior 
Court civil action filed against it. The Committee reconvened in open session at 7:45 P.M. and 
discussed the remaining noticed topics.
DISCUSSION
I. With Respect to the Executive Session Topics, the April 9 Notice was Not
Sufficiently Detailed but the April 23 Notice was Sufficiently Detailed.
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a). Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also 
District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm, of W ay land. 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] 
precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is 
the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and 
the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”).
One purpose for executive session permits a public body to discuss “the reputation, 
character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an 
individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, 
a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”). 
Public bodies may meet in executive session under Purpose 1 to review Open Meeting Law 
complaints against the body. See OML 2015-105; OML 2013-82; OML 2012-119; OML 2011- 
6.3 Another permissible reason to convene in executive session is to “conduct strategy sessions 
in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 
2”). A public body may also convene in executive session “to discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”). When convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2 or Purpose 
3, a public body must identify the nonunion personnel with whom it will be negotiating or the 
litigation matter it will discuss, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy. 
See OML 2017-53; OML 2016-43; OML 2016-12; OML 2013-151.
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
The complaint alleges that both the April 9 and April 23 meeting notices with respect to 
the executive session topics lacked sufficient detail. We find that the April 9 meeting notice was 
not sufficiently detailed because the notice failed to identify the non-union personnel with whom 
the Committee was negotiating under Purpose 2. This additional detail would have provided the 
public with an understanding of the specific subject of the executive session discussion. The 
Committee does not suggest that inclusion of such information would have compromised the 
purpose for the executive session. Accordingly, it should have been included on the notice, and 
its omission violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-133. We find that the April 23 
meeting notice was sufficiently detailed because the notice identified the non-union personnel, 
the Interim Superintendent, with whom the Committee was negotiating under Purpose 2, and 
identified the litigation matter by case name and docket number that the Committee planned to 
discuss under Purpose 3. See OML 2017-43.
With respect to the Purpose 1 executive session topics on both the April 9 and April 23 
notices, the complaint alleges that the meetings notices “failed to identify by name the 
individual, public officer, employee, or staff member discussed.” Here, the notices indicated that 
the Committee would be discussing 29 Open Meeting Law complaints. Because the Open 
Meeting Law requires a public body to meet to review complaints filed with it, it was sufficiently 
clear that the complaints being reviewed under Purpose 1 were made against the Committee 
itself. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). Therefore, the meeting notices contained sufficient detail in this 
respect.4
II. The Committee Failed to Record in its Minutes a Roll Call Vote Before Entering
Executive Session.
The Open Meeting Law permits a public body to enter executive session provided that it 
has first convened in open session, that a majority of the members of the body have voted to go 
into executive session, and that “the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into 
the minutes.” See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b); OML 2014-94. A roll call vote is “the act or an instance 
of calling off a list of names.” Webster's Third New International Dictionary of the English 
Language, 683 (unabridged ed. 1961). These requirements are intended to create a clear record 
of what occurred and to reflect the significance of holding a discussion behind closed doors. See 
OML 2015-131; OML 2014-94; OML 2012-10.
Here, the minutes of the April 9 meeting indicate that the Committee failed to record a 
roll call vote to enter executive session. The minutes simply state “By roll call vote all members 
were in favor of entering into Executive Session . .. .” Although the minutes reflect that the 
Committee conducted a roll call vote before convening in executive session as required, this still 
does not satisfy the Open Meeting Law’s requirement that the vote of each member be recorded 
by roll call and entered in the minutes. Even unanimous votes need to be recorded by roll call in 
the minutes. See OML 2015-131; OML 2013-195. The Committee’s failure to do so here 
violated the Open Meeting Law.
4 Although not raised in these complaints, we note that a Purpose 1 topic should generally include the name of the 
person who filed the Open Meeting Law complaints. See OML 2013-82.
4

===PAGE 5===
We must determine whether these violations were, as the complainant urges, intentional 
ones. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body 
or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. An 
intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the 
law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting 
Law. Id. This Office has not issued any determinations that advised the Committee that minutes 
must include the recorded roll call vote of each member. Several years ago, we advised the 
Committee of its obligations under the law to include sufficient detail in its meeting notices. See 
OML 2011-7. However, that advice related to the sufficiency of open session topics; we have 
not previously advised the Committee of its obligations under the law with respect to the 
sufficiency of executive session topics. Because we find no evidence that the Committee acted 
with deliberate ignorance of the law and where the Committee had not been notified of its 
obligations prior to the events addressed in this letter, we find that these violations were not 
intentional.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by posting an insufficiently detailed notice for its April 9 meeting and by failing to record a roll 
call vote in its April 9 minutes. We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Ronald Alexander
Natick School Committee
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
5
