===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
May 12, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 94 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Robert W. Galvin, Esq. 
Galvin & Galvin, PC 
Norwell Town Counsel 
  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Galvin: 
 
This office received a complaint from Brian Carroll on March 1, 2022, alleging that the 
Norwell Select Board (the “Board”), and specifically its chair Bruce Graham, violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on 
December 3, 2021, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated December 15, 
2021.1 The complaint alleges that the Chair discussed topics during the Board’s December 1 
meeting that were not included on the notice for that meeting.2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Chair violated the Open Meeting Law when the 
Chair discussed topics that were anticipated but not included on the notice for the Board’s 
December 1 meeting. At the outset, we note that we offer no opinion on the substance of the 
Chair’s comments, but rather review only whether it was a violation of the Law to discuss the 
topics at issue where they had not been included on the meeting notice. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request 
for further review, the notice for the Board’s December 1 meeting, and a video recording of the 
December 1 meeting.3  
 
1 All dates are in 2021 unless otherwise stated. 
2 In the request for further review, the Complainant suggests that the Open Meeting Law requires individual notice if 
an individual will be discussed during a meeting. This is not the case. Unless an individual will be discussed in 
executive session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”), the Open Meeting Law does not require individual 
notice. See e.g., OML 2017-75.  
3 A video recording of the Board’s December 1 meeting may be found at https://vimeo.com/652512845. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Board posted notice on November 29 for a 
meeting to be held on December 1. The notice included several open session topics, including—
under the heading “Reports”—the topic “Select Board Reports and Announcements.” The Chair 
began discussions under this topic by noting that what he was about to discuss was so important 
that he had spent that day and much of the week leading up to the meeting preparing a written 
statement to read aloud.  
 
Following this introduction, the Chair read from a prepared statement for approximately 
25 minutes. The Chair’s statement related to a years-long proposal to build affordable housing on 
two parcels of land on Wildcat Lane in Norwell; the Complainant’s opposition to that proposal; a 
2021 Town Meeting warrant article drafted by the Complainant regarding transferring the land 
on Wildcat Lane to the Conservation Commission (“Article 26”); legal advice the Chair received 
regarding Article 26; an alleged threat of litigation made by the Complainant; and topics related 
to an ethics complaint filed by the Complainant against Board member Ellen Allen. 
 
After the Chair concluded his comments, he opened the floor for citizen comments. 
During this topic Alison Demong, a former Board member, was recognized and spoke in support 
of Ms. Allen. Thereafter, Ms. Allen spoke briefly thanking the Chair, Ms. Demong, and others 
for their support.      
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and that every 
notice include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies 
must list topics for discussion with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to 
include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35; OML 
2012-71; OML 2011-44.4  
 
The Board offers two arguments in support of its position that the Chair’s statement did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law. First, the Board states in its response that “the Attorney 
General’s office has never interpreted the topic of ‘Select Board Reports and Announcements’ or 
any reasonably equivalent [topic] . . . as requiring specific itemization . . . .” We disagree.  Based 
on the plain language of the Open Meeting Law, meeting notices must include a list of the topics 
that the chair reasonably anticipates, 48 hours or more prior to the meeting, will be discussed at 
the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). We have consistently found that where a chair, or other 
individual charged with creating the meeting notice, reasonably anticipates a topic will be 
discussed at a meeting, that topic may not be discussed unless it was included on the meeting 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
notice. See OML 2021-146 (finding that a topic was reasonably anticipated for discussion such 
that it should have been included on the meeting notice when the superintendent had specifically 
flagged the topic for the chair more than 48 hours prior to the meeting); OML 2020-152 (finding 
that where the chair of the committee and the superintendent shared responsibility for creating 
the committee’s meeting notice, the committee violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing a 
topic that was not included on the meeting notice but had been anticipated by the 
superintendent); OML 2021-121 (rejecting the chair’s assertion that he did not, in general, 
anticipate any topics in advance of meetings and noting that the chair himself had provided the 
reports and updates under five of the generic topics listed on the notice).5  
 
Second, both in its response and in statements made by the Chair during the December 1 
meeting, the Board suggests that the Chair’s comments did not constitute deliberation because 
the Chair was sharing his personal thoughts and opinions, no other member of the Board 
substantively responded, and the Chair did not disseminate his prepared statement to a quorum of 
the Board in advance of the meeting. While we commend the Board for understanding that 
disseminating the Chair’s statement to a quorum of the Board prior to the meeting would have 
constituted improper deliberation outside of a posted meeting, we clarify for the Board that when 
the Chair discussed matters within the Board’s jurisdiction during the December 1 meeting, this 
too constituted deliberation. The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly as “an oral or 
written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a 
quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction . . . .” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
The expression of an opinion by one public body member on matters within the body’s 
jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is considered a deliberation, even if no other public 
body member responds. See, e.g., OML 2019-140; OML 2015-33. Although the deliberation at 
issue here took place during an open meeting, the anticipated topic was not included on the 
notice for the meeting and so should not have been discussed. For this reason, we find that the 
Chair violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating during the Board’s December 1 meeting 
regarding an anticipated topic that was not included on the notice for that meeting.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Chair violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing an anticipated topic during the Board’s December 1 meeting without that topic having 
been included on the meeting notice. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance 
with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the law. Because the Chair’s comments occurred entirely in open 
session and the Board took no action as a result, we order no further remedial action.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
 
5 In support of its assertion that it was not required to provide further detail under the topic “Select Board Reports 
and Announcements,” the Board cites to OML 2017-33. In OML 2017-33, we found that the topic “Announcements 
& Good of the Order” was used as a time for members of the public body to discuss items that were generally 
spontaneous, unanticipated, or were not within the public body’s jurisdiction. That is not what occurred here. Here, 
the Chair anticipated discussing the topics raised in his prepared statement and those topics related to public 
business within the Board’s jurisdiction. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Bruce Graham, Chair, Norwell Select Board (via email:  
Brian Carroll (via e-mail:  
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
