===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BO STON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL:(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
February 28, 2018 
OML 2018 - 26 
Robert Galvin, Esq. 
Galvin & Galvin, PC 
10 Enterprise Street, Suite 3 
Duxbury, MA 02332 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Galvin: 
This office received a complaint from Mary Parsons on October 25, alleging that the 
Southfield Redevelopment Authority Board of Directors (the "Board") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 Lhe complaint was originally filed with the Board on 
or about September 25, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter 
dated October 4. In her complaint, Ms. Parsons alleges the Board failed to list an anticipated 
executive session on its September 11 meeting notice and that this executive session was 
improperly held. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to provide the public with sufficient detail in open session about an executive session 
topic. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response 
to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notice, open session minutes, and a draft of the executive session minutes from 
the Board's September 11 meeting. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Southfield Redevelopment Authority is a regional 
public body established by statute with control over land-use and development decisions 
affecting the Union Point community located on the former South Weymouth Naval Air 
Station in the towns of Abington, Rockland and Weymouth. The Authority acts as a pass-
through entity for the transfer of land between the Navy and LSTAR, a developer with 
exclusive development rights for Union Point. Although much of the land on the site has 
already been transferred through the Authority, some parcels remain in the Navy's control. 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise specified. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
o 
===PAGE 2===
During a regularly-scheduled meeting on Monday, September 11, the Board convened 
in executive session to discuss negotiation with respect to a transfer of land that was within 
the Navy's control. The meeting notice, posted on Thursday, September 7, did not list this 
executive session topic. During the meeting, the chair noted that the executive session topic 
arose unexpectedly over the weekend which necessitated a prompt discussion in executive 
session. According to the open session minutes, the Board voted by roll call to convene in 
executive session "for the purpose of a discussion on the Transfer of Land." According to the 
executive session minutes, the Board voted "to enter executive session to consider the 
purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property where the chair declares that an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body and not 
to return to open session." While the closed-door discussion last approximately 30 minutes, 
the draft minutes are summarized in two sentences.2 
DISCUSSION 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Notices must include 
"a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." Id 
The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues 
to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). Public bodies may enter a closed, 
executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, provided that 
the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for the executive 
session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for 
which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); see also District 
Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wavland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 ("[a] precise statement 
of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting law 
because that is the only notification given to the public that the school Board would conduct 
business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was 
proper or improper"). One permissible reason to convene in executive session is "[t]o 
consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an 
open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body." 
G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(a)(6) ("Purpose 6"). 
The complaint alleges that, during its September 11 meeting, the Board improperly 
convened an executive session without posting it as a topic on its meeting notice. The Board 
responded that the discussion constituted an emergency because it was unanticipated and 
required an immediate response from the Board. Because the Board's meeting was already 
scheduled, it was not considered an emergency meeting, as defined in the law. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 18 ("emergency" is defined as "a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set of 
2 We remind the Board that the minutes of both open and executive sessions should include the same level of 
detail and should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did 
not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(a); OML 2012-106. We commend the Board's pledge to amend the draft minutes to include more detail 
about the executive session discussion. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
circumstances demanding immediate action"); OML 2016-70.3 Rather, the topic arose 
unexpectedly within the 48 hours before the scheduled meeting and therefore constituted an 
unanticipated topic. As an unanticipated topic, the Board was permitted to proceed with the 
executive session, despite the fact that the topic was not listed on the notice. See OML 2017-
138; OML 2017-116. That being said, while public bodies may discuss atopic that is not 
listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of 
the meeting, we encourage public bodies to postpone discussion of such topics until proper 
notice can be given to the public. See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87. 
Although it was permissible for the Board to proceed with the unexpected executive 
session, it was required to disclose in open session the purpose for the executive session, 
providing as much detail to the public as possible without revealing anything that would 
compromise the executive session purpose. When convening in executive session under 
Purpose 6, a public body must identify the property that is the subject of the discussion unless 
such disclosure would compromise the public body's negotiating position. See OML 2016-
112; OML 2016-50. We conclude that the Board did not meet its burden of demonstrating 
that publicly disclosing the specific parcel of land that was the subject of the negotiation, at 
the very least, would have been detrimental to the public body's negotiation strategy with the 
Navy because the universe of parcels left to negotiate with the Navy are limited and known to 
the Navy and the public. Accordingly, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to provide this additional detail to the public in open session. As a result, the Board may not 
rely upon the Open Meeting Law as the basis for continuing to withhold the executive session 
minutes. However, the attorney-client privilege or one or more exemptions to the Public 
Records Law may allow the Board to withhold the minutes, in whole or in part, from public 
disclosure. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
The complaint further alleges that the executive session was improperly held because 
all documents relating to the redevelopment of the former South Weymouth Naval Air Station 
are publicly available and therefore the Board has no negotiating position to protect. We 
disagree. Because some parcels of land remain in the Navy's possession, there are still terms 
to negotiate with the Navy with respect to the transfer of those parcels. Accordingly, we find 
that the Board's executive session discussion fit within the parameters of Purpose 6 as it 
related to strategy with respect to negotiating the terms for a transfer of land with the Navy. 
See OML 2017-95. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to provide the public with sufficient detail in open session about an executive 
session topic. We order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the law's 
requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law. In addition, we order the Board to release its September 11 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www .mass .gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
executive session minutes, within 30 days of receipt of this determination, in accordance with 
the guidance above. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
yi 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Mary Parsons 
Southfield Redevelopment Authority Board of Directors 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 