===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
December 3, 2019
Shanna Reed, Esq.
First Assistant City Solicitor 
City of Westfield 
Office of the City Solicitor 
59 Court Street 
Westfield, MA 01085
RE: Reconsideration of OML 2019 - 153
Dear Attorney Reed:
Our office received your November 22, 2019, email in which you request 
reconsideration of our November 19, 2019, determination, OML 2019-153, resolving a 
complaint filed by Kristen Mello against the Westfield City Council (the “Council”). In your 
email, you request that the Division of Open Government (the “Division”) reconsider Part III 
of the determination, which found that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to approve minutes for several meetings in a timely manner.1
There is no statutory right to reconsideration by the Office of the Attorney General of 
an Open Meeting Law determination or declination. While the Division generally will not 
reconsider past determinations, the Division may grant reconsideration where the request 
identifies a clerical or mechanical error in the determination or a significant legal or factual 
issue that the Division may have overlooked or misapprehended in resolving the complaint. 
You have informed us that the Council did indeed approve meeting minutes for the meetings 
at issue, but due to a misunderstanding during the course of our investigation regarding where 
approved minutes could be found, we failed to find minutes for the meetings at issue. 
Accordingly, we grant your request for reconsideration and find that the Council did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law.
1 You also assert in your email that our recommendation in OML 2019-153 that Council members take 
reasonable care to not interfere with the audio quality of meeting recordings was a matter beyond our jurisdiction 
to enforce the Open Meeting Law, since the Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to record their 
meetings. We disagree. Members of the public, including, in this case, the community access television station, 
have an absolute right to record meetings. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f); OML 2013-81; OML 2015-199. Excessive 
and unnecessary audio disturbances, such as a Council member rubbing a microphone while another individual 
is speaking, could interfere with this right, and thus we reminded the Council members to be mindful of the 
sensitivity of their microphones.
o

===PAGE 2===
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, 
the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes 
must be reviewed and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); 940 CMR 29.11 (2). 
The Open Meeting Law itself does not define “timely manner.” However, the Attorney 
General’s Open Meeting Law regulations provide that “timely manner” means “within the 
next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body 
can show good cause for further delay.” 940 CMR 29.11 (2). Whenever possible, we 
recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2019-20.
In the course of our original investigation, you described to me the Council’s general 
procedure of approving meeting minutes at its next meeting, for which we commend the 
Council. You informed us that the Council also posts its meeting minutes to its website within 
a few days of approval, though not required to do so by the Open Meeting Law, and that any 
approved meeting minutes would appear on the Council’s website. On its website, the Council 
separately lists its public hearing notices and its meeting notices. Each meeting notice 
includes a corresponding link to that meeting’s minutes, but the public hearing notices include 
no such corresponding link to meeting minutes, thus lending the appearance that there were 
no minutes for those public hearings. We now understand that each public hearing was held as 
part of a separately-noticed public meeting, and that the minutes of the public meetings cover 
the public hearing(s) that were held on the same date. Therefore, minutes of each public 
hearing indeed were created and approved in a timely manner.
Based on the foregoing, we hereby modify our finding in OML 2019-153 to conclude 
that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint 
addressed by this determination to be resolved. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 
963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely yours,
Sarah Chase
Assistant Attorney General
cc: Kristen Mello
Westfield City Council
2

===PAGE 3===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
November 19, 2019 
OML 2019-153
Shanna Reed, Esq.
First Assistant City Solicitor 
City of Westfield 
Office of the City Solicitor 
59 Court Street 
Westfield, MA 01085
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Reed:
This office received a complaint from Kristen Mello on March 11, 2019, alleging that the 
Westfield City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Council on February 1, 2019, and you responded on 
behalf of the Committee by letter dated February 8, 2019.1 In her complaint, Ms. Mello alleges 
that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law when microphone rubbing and other audio 
disturbances obscured what was said on the video recordings of the Council’s meetings. Ms. 
Mello also alleges that minutes for previous meetings with audio disturbances have not 
adequately captured the inaudible portions of the meetings. Finally, Ms. Mello alleges that many 
meeting minutes have been absent from the Town’s website.
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the audio disturbances did not violate the Open Meeting Law and that the 
Council’s meeting minutes are generally sufficiently detailed. However, we find that the Council 
has failed to timely approve numerous meeting minutes from its 2018 and 2019 meetings. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the complaint (including attachments), the Council’s 
response and the request for further review. We also reviewed video recordings and minutes for 
several of the meetings identified in the complaint.2 Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on 
October 29 and November 14.
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2019.
2 The complaint alleges violations took place during thirteen meetings from March 2, 2017 through January 17,
2019, through March 2, 2017. In general, to be considered timely, an Open Meeting Law complaint must be filed 
within 30 days of the alleged violation. See 940 CMR 29.05(1); OML Declination 10-6-14 (Yarmouth Open Space 
Committee); OML Declination 6-10-13 (Newburyport Redevelopment Authority). Under that standard, only the 
allegations about the January 17, 2019, meeting were timely. However, in order to understand the background of this 
case, we did review minutes and video of other meetings identified in complaint.

===PAGE 4===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Council meets in a medium-size chamber with the 
Council members sitting in a semicircular dais. The Clerk sits at a desk in the center of the 
Councilors and any member of the public offering comment speaks at a podium only a few feet 
in front of the Clerk. Due to the relatively small size of the room, public attendees who sit in the 
benches and chairs opposite the dais can hear comments made by the Councilors.
The Council video records its meetings and each councilor, the clerk and the public 
podium have microphones for this purpose. The microphones appear to be rather sensitive, 
routinely picking up background noises such as the clerk typing and councilors tapping their 
pens or rustling papers on their desks. In a few instances, Councilors appear to touch their 
microphones. These background noises impact the clarity of the audio on the video recordings, 
sometimes briefly making the speaker hard to hear. In addition, on some occasions technical 
difficulties resulted in portions of meetings not being recorded.
Finally, the Council generally approves meeting minutes of its regular meetings at the 
following meeting and putting the minutes up on the Council’s website within a few days. 
However, it appears that the Council has not been creating or approving meeting minutes for its 
public hearings. There are approximately 15 such hearings that took place in 2018 and 2019 for 
which no meeting minutes appear on the website, and which we therefore concluded have not 
been approved.
DISCUSSION
I. The Audio Disturbances on the Council’s Meeting Recordings do not Constitute a
Violation of the Open Meeting Law because Public Bodies are Not Required to Record
Their Meetings.
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law states that all meetings of a 
public body must be open to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). Access must include the 
opportunity to be physically present as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the 
members of the public body. See OML 2016-14; OML 2014-3; OML 2013-189. Furthermore, 
The Open Meeting Law states that “after notifying the chair of the public body, any person may 
make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a public body, or may 
transmit the meeting through any medium.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(e). The Open Meeting Law does 
not, however, require public bodies to record or transcribe, or otherwise broadcast, their public 
meetings. See OML 2013-8; OML 2010-3.3
Here, there are certainly audio disturbances that effect the quality of some of the 
Council’s meeting video recordings, including occasional technical difficulties which prevent 
recording entirely. Although we acknowledge the benefits of video recording public meetings, 
and commend the efforts of the Council to make recordings of their meetings available to 
members of the public who cannot attend meetings in person, the Open Meeting Law does not
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law.
2

===PAGE 5===
require public bodies to record or otherwise broadcast their meetings. For this reason, we find 
that the audio disturbances in the recordings of the meetings do not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We do, however, encourage the Councilors to be mindful of the sensitivity of the 
microphones so as to reduce audio disturbances in the recordings.
II. The Council’s January 17 Meeting Minutes are Sufficiently Detailed.
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. 
See OML 2013-64. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough 
detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the 
minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106. While minutes 
must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the 
minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented. See OML 2017-79; OML 
2012-29; OML 2011-55.
We focused our review of the Council’s meeting minutes on the January 17 meeting, 
because those meeting minutes were the only ones approved within 30 days of the filing of the 
complaint. Allegation regarding prior meeting minutes are untimely.4 After reviewing the 
meeting minutes and video, we find that the Council’s January 17 meeting minutes are quite 
detailed and, although they do not capture every single comment or opinion expressed, they are 
not required to do so. See OML 2019-136; OML 2017-105. In particular, the January 17 minutes 
summarize, over 11 single-spaced pages, the major discussions that took during a meeting that 
lasted less than two hours. The minutes adequately capture the deliberations that occurred during 
the meeting. Furthermore, in our review of a sample of past meeting minutes, we find them also 
to be sufficiently detailed.
III. The Council Violated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Approve Meeting Minutes for
Public Hearings.
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes must be reviewed 
and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); 940 CMR 29.11 (2). The Open Meeting 
Law itself does not define “timely manner.” However, the Attorney General’s Open Meeting 
Law regulations provide that “timely manner” means “within the next three public body 
meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for
4 The complaint alleges violations took place during thirteen meetings from March 2, 2017 through January 17, 
2019. In general, an Open Meeting Law complaint is only considered timely if it is properly filed within 30 days of 
the alleged violation. See 940 CMR 29.05(1); OML Declination 10-6-14; OML Declination 6-10-13. Under that 
standard, only the allegations about the January 17, 2019 meeting were timely.
3

===PAGE 6===
further delay.” 940 CMR 29.11 (2). Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a 
meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2019-20.
We note that the Council has a general practice of approving minutes for its regular 
meetings at the following meeting, and we commend the Council for approving minutes of its 
regular minutes so promptly. However, there also appears to be a pattern of not approving 
meeting minutes for public hearings. The Open Meeting Law defines “meeting” as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” The 
Open Meeting Law and regulations do not distinguish between “regular” meetings and other 
types of meetings such as workshops or public hearings, for purposes of timely approval of 
minutes. See OML 2017-103 (public body should have created complete minutes for its 
“workshop” meetings because topics discussed were matters within the public body's 
jurisdiction); OML 2019-115 (no exception for “single topic” meetings or meetings not 
“normally scheduled”). Because the Council’s public hearings are meetings as defined by the 
Open Meeting Law, the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to approve meeting 
minutes for approximately 15 public hearings that took place in 2018 and 2019.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the audio disturbances on certain meeting 
recordings did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We also find that the Council’s meeting 
minutes, including those of the January 17, 2019 meeting, were sufficiently detailed. Finally, we 
find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to approve meeting minutes for 
many meetings in 2018 and 2019. We therefore order the Council to create minutes for all 
missing meetings, public hearings or otherwise, to the best of its ability, through whatever means 
are available, including the memories and individual notations of the attendees.
We order the Council’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law 
and caution the Council that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. We now consider the 
complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address 
any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Council. Please feel free to 
contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Sarah Chase
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Kristen Mello
Westfield City Council
4

===PAGE 7===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
5
