===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 26, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 169 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Amy Lindquist 
Assistant City Solicitor 
City of Melrose  
alindquist@cityofmelrose.org 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Lindquist: 
 
This office received a complaint from Gerry Mroz on March 8, 2021, alleging that the 
Melrose School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about January 7, 2021. After 
an extension of time granted by this office, you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter 
dated February 1, 2021. The complaint alleges that the notice for the Committee’s December 8, 
2020, meeting was insufficient with respect to two executive session topics, and that the Chair’s 
statement before entering executive session on December 8, was also insufficient.
1 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response, the 
request for further review, and the minutes of the Committee’s December 8 executive session. 
We also communicated with counsel for the Committee.2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On December 3, the Division of Open Government 
issued a determination, OML 2020-154, finding, in part, that the Committee had violated the 
 
1 All dates are in 2020 unless otherwise stated. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Open Meeting Law by failing to identify on the meeting notice for its April 7 executive session 
the specific nonunion personnel with whom the Committee would be negotiating. Furthermore, 
the Division found that the Committee’s violation was intentional because in the past nine years 
the Committee had been found in violation of the Open Meeting Law three times for failure to 
state with sufficient specificity its purpose for entering executive session. The Division 
recommended the imposition of a $500 fine and referred the matter for an administrative hearing.  
 
The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on December 8. The notice 
included the following executive session topics: 
 
1. To discuss strategy with respect to litigation involving an open meeting law 
complaint as an open meeting will have a detrimental effect on the litigation 
position of the School Committee  
 
2. To discuss strategy with respect to litigation filed in the US District Court of 
Massachusetts as an open meeting will have a detrimental effect on the 
litigation position of the School Committee. 
 
Before entering into executive session on December 8, the Chair made a statement that mirrored 
the executive session topics as listed on the meeting notice, providing no additional detail.  
 
During the executive session the Committee discussed a lawsuit that had been filed in US 
District Court and the Division’s Open Meeting Law determination, OML 2020-154.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the se
 crecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Except when meeting in executive session, all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public. G.L. c. 30A, §20(a). A public body may enter an 
executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law 
provided that it has first, among other things, convened in an open session and that the chair has 
stated the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); 
see also OML 2014-94.
3 One permissible reason to hold an executive session is “[t]o discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares” (“Purpose 3”). G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(3). 
 
Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in the 
announcem
ent during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District 
Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“A precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
law because that is the only notification given to the public that the [public body] would conduct 
busine
ss in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was 
proper or improper.”). This generally means that when convening in executive session under 
Purpose 3 to discuss litigation strategy, both the meeting notice and the announcement before 
entering into executive must identify the litigation matter to be discussed, if doing so will not 
compromise the executive session purpose. See OML 2020-47; OML 2014-50. While we 
generally defer to a public body’s assessment of whether the inclusion of such information would 
compromise the purpose for an executive session, a public body must be able to demonstrate a 
reasonable basis for that claim if challenged. See OML 2016-146. 
 
The complaint alleges that both the notice for the December 8 executive session and the 
Chai
r’s statement before entering into executive session failed to sufficiently describe the 
executive session topics. We agree. The Committee did not identify, either on the meeting notice 
or in the Chair’s verbal statement, the specific litigation matters to be discussed in executive 
session. The Committee’s response is twofold. First, the Committee asserts that it provided 
sufficient information to identify the “type” of litigation matters to be discussed; that is, the 
notice and statement indicated that the Committee would discuss a matter filed in US District 
Court and a matter related to an Open Meeting Law complaint. Identifying the “type” of 
litigation does not satisfy the Committee’s obligation under the Open Meeting Law to identify 
the particular litigation matters to be discussed in executive session, if doing so will not 
compromise the executive session purpose. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); OML 2012-89 
(explaining that the meeting notice should have specifically stated the names of the pending 
litigation matters the Board anticipated discussing.); OML 2019-32 (finding a notice sufficient 
where it identified the litigation matter to be discussed by case name and docket number); OML 
2019-64; OML 2020-79.
4  
 
Second, in its response the Committee states that it  
 
has not identified the name of an individual party in the past out of concern that 
doing so would have a chilling effect on any individual wishing to file an action or 
complaint against the Committee. In this context, the concern has routinely been 
that publicizing the names of individuals filing open meeting law, discrimination 
or other complaints could dissuade others from doing so. 
 
We are not persuaded. The Attorney General’s role is to
  “determine whether there was a 
reasonable basis for the [Committee] to have reached the conclusion that [nondisclosure of its 
executive session discussion topic was warranted].” Bd. of Selectmen of Hull v. Healey, 2017 
WL 6601467 at *6. To justify nondisclosure of information identifying the particular litigation 
matters to be discussed, the Committee would have had to conclude that disclosure of such 
information would have compromised the purpose for which the executive session was called. 
See OML 2018-139 (citing Hull, 2017 WL 6601467 at *5). That “purpose,” under G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3), was “[t]o discuss strategy with respect to . . . litigation if an open meeting [might have 
had] a detrimental effect on the [Committee’s] . . . litigating position.”  
 
4 The Complainant suggests that the Committee could have included the complaint filed in US District Court with 
the meeting notice, and asserts that the notice failed to inform the public of the alleged violations claimed in the 
Open Meeting Law complaint underlying the determination discussed. This level of detail is not required.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
The Committee has made no showing and indeed does not assert that identifying the 
litigation matters in greater detail would have had a detrimental effect on its litigating position. 
Instead, the Committee asserts that it chose not to disclose information identifying the particular 
litigation matters “out of concern that doing so would have a chilling effect on any individual 
wishing to file an action or complaint against the Committee.” Although we credit the 
Committee’s explanation for why it chose not to disclose additional detail about the matters to be 
discussed, the Open Meeting Law’s executive session Purpose 3 is concerned with protection of 
the public body’s litigating position, not with ensuring that individuals feel comfortable filing 
lawsuits and Open Meeting Law complaints against the Committee in the future.  
 
We must next determine whether the Committee’s
  violation was, as the Complainant 
urges, intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a 
public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 
29.02. An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate 
ignorance of the Law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates 
the Open Meeting Law. Id. In the past ten years, the Committee was found in violation of the 
Open Meeting Law four times for failing to state with sufficient specificity its purpose for 
entering executive session, in both its meeting notices and verbal statements prior to entering 
those sessions. See OML 2020-154; OML 2019-127; OML 2015-118; OML 2011-15. The most 
recent finding of such a violation was our determination in OML 2020-154, originally issued on 
December 3, just five days before the violation we find here.   
 
Nonet
heless, we decline to find that this violation was intentional. We note that the 
Committee included some descriptive information about each of the executive session topics—
“an open meeting law complaint” and “litigation filed in the US District Court of 
Massachusetts”—unlike in our prior findings where the Committee included no identifying 
information about the matters to be discussed beyond identifying the executive session purpose 
relied on. Although the topics still were described with insufficient specificity, we decline to find 
the violation was intentional in this instance where the Committee attempted to include 
additional detail but still fell short. 
 
  
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to state with sufficient specificity, in both its meeting notice and verbal statement 
before entering executive session, its purpose for entering executive session on December 8. We 
order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and 
caution the Committee that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law and could result in the 
imposition of a $1,000 civil penalty per intentional violation.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Jen McAndrew, Chair , Melrose School Committee (via email: 
jmcandrew@cityofmelrose.org) 
Gerry Mroz (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
