===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 7, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 185 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Kimberly Roche, Esq. 
Dupere Law Offices, P.C. 
94 North Elm Street 
Suite 307 
Westfield, MA 01085 
kimberly@duperelawoffices.info  
  
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Roche: 
 
This office received a complaint from Anthony Witman on June 11, 2025,
1 alleging that 
the South Hadley School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about May 10, 
and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated May 16. The complaint alleges 
that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to identify the specific litigation 
matter to be discussed in executive session on May 1.2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Committee’s response, the request for further review, additional response from the Committee, 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The complaint additionally alleges that the Committee improperly convened in executive session under G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a)(3), to discuss litigation, when it should have convened under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1), to discuss 
complaints or charges brough against an individual. We understand from the request made to our office that the 
Complainant only seeks review of the allegation that the Committee failed to identify the litigation matter to be 
discussed. However, we note that in its response the Committee explained  that the communication that prompted the 
executive session was clearly labeled “intent to sue.” The Complainant does not dispute this. Furthermore, when a 
discussion may properly be held under multiple executive session purposes, a public body may choose which 
executive session purpose or purposes to cite. See OML 2019-164; OML 2012-53. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
and the meeting notice and open session minutes of the Committee’s May 1 meeting. We also 
communicated with the Committee’s legal counsel by email and telephone.3 
 
The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on May 1. Included on the notice, 
among other things, was the topic “Executive Session MGL Chapter 30A, 21A(3) To discuss 
strategy with respect to litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.” During its May 1 meeting, the 
Committee voted to enter executive session for the reason stated on the meeting notice. 
 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Except when meeting in executive session, “all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). A public body may enter an 
executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21. One such purpose is “[t]o discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or 
litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) 
(“Purpose 3”).  
 
Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in the 
announce
ment during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); OML 2023- 
207; OML 2019-85; see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 
Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“A precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is 
necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public 
that the [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would 
know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper.”).
4 When convening in executive 
session under Purpose 3 to discuss litigation strategy, both the meeting notice and the 
announcement before entering the executive session must identify the litigation matter to be 
discussed, if doing so will not compromise the executive session purpose. See OML 2024-111; 
OML 2012-89; OML 2014-50: OML 2016-12; OML 2020-47; see also Town of Hull, Bd. of 
Selectmen v. Healey, 2017 WL 8160437, at *7 (Mass.Super.) (“The OML does not prevent a 
public body from withholding from public disclosure the name of a litigant if the facts warrant it 
doing so to preserve the purpose of the executive session in light of adverse impacts that would 
otherwise result from such disclosure.”). We generally defer to a public body’s assessment of 
whether identifying the litigation matter to be discussed would compromise the purpose for the 
executive session; however, a public body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for that 
claim if challenged. See OML 2024-195; OML 2024-111; OML 2016-12. When meeting in 
executive session under Purpose 3, the purpose of the executive session is to protect the public 
body’s litigating position, in general vis-à-vis opposing parties to the litigation. See OML 2020-
68; OML 2023- 189.  
 
 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it did not 
identify the litigation matter to be discussed in executive session on May 1. The Committee 
asserts that although the communication it received was clearly labeled “intent to sue,” it was not 
clear exactly what the allegations were or the venue in which a complaint might be brought. As 
such, the Committee asserts that it could not include information identifying the venue or type of 
litigation threatened. Additionally, the Committee’s legal counsel has explained that it was her 
belief and judgment that identifying the opposing litigant or other details about the threatened 
litigation would have compromised the purpose for the executive session. Based on the responses 
from the Committee and discussion with the Committee’s legal counsel, we are satisfied that the 
Committee has demonstrated a reasonable basis for its claim that identifying the specific 
litigation matter may have compromised the purpose for the executive session, which was to 
protect the Committee’s litigating position with respect to the threatened litigation. Therefore, we 
find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged.  
 
Although we do not find a violation here, we remind the Committee that in gener
 al when 
discussing a litigation matter in executive session, including threatened litigation, a public body 
should identify the specific litigation matter in some way. See, e.g., OML 2016-152 (“In prior 
determinations, we have required public bodies to disclose the name of the litigation matter 
under discussion, or to include some description of the litigation issue the body sought to 
discuss.”); OML 2024-168 (clarifying that with respect to complaints before the Massachusetts 
Commission Against Discrimination, a public body may, out of concern for the privacy of the 
complainant, withhold the complainant’s identity while still identifying the type of litigation 
matter to be discussed). A blanket policy of not identifying threatened litigation matters does not 
pass muster; instead, the public body must identify a threatened litigation matter unless it 
reasonably believes that doing so in a particular situation would compromise the body’s 
litigating position. 
 
For t
he reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
cc: Eric Friesner, Chair, South Hadley School Committee  
(via email: efriesner@shschools.com)  
 Sarah B. Gmeiner, Town Clerk (via email: sgmeiner@southhadleyma.gov) 
Anthony Witman  
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
