===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
January 2, 2026 
  
OML 2026 – 2 
  
VIA EMAIL  
 
Andrew Waugh 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
 
awaugh@mhtl.com 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Attorney Waugh:  
 
This office received a complaint from Raquel Russell on September 5, 2025, alleging that 
the Falmouth School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint originally was filed with the Committee on July 8.1  You 
responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated July 18.  The complaint alleges that the 
Committee: (1) posted insufficiently specific notice for its May 13 meeting; (2) voted to renew 
the Superintendent’s contract in executive session; (3) suppressed public comment and refused to 
provide or discuss the Superintendent’s evaluation; (4) ratified the contract at the Committee’s 
June 10 meeting without discussing it or allowing the public to see it; and (5) signed the contract 
before the Committee voted to approve it in open session. 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it posted insufficiently 
specific notice of its May 13 meeting, and when it signed the contract with the Superintendent 
prior to holding a vote to approve it in open session, relying instead on the vote that was taken in 
executive session.  We decline to review the remaining allegations of the complaint.  In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, and 
the complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed the notice of the Committee’s 
May 13 meeting, and the minutes of the Committee’s meetings held on May 13 (open and 
executive sessions) and June 10.  We also viewed a recording of the June 10 meeting.2  Finally, I 
communicated with you via email. 
  
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2025. 
2 We accessed the recording at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=St2ChZ84zS4&list=PLINv5kF-
ynOTlLVr80pXYi4YeQZtS_wZK&index=8.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On May 8, the Committee posted notice of a meeting to be 
held on May 13.  Among the topics on the notice was the following: 
 
MOVE into Executive Session to conduct negotiations of non-union contract and to 
conduct a strategy session for negotiations with FEA Units A, B, C and D. Having these 
discussions in open session may have a detrimental effect on the School Committee’s 
bargaining position. It is anticipated that the School Committee will reconvene into 
public session.3 
 
 The meeting took place as scheduled.  At the beginning of the meeting, the Committee 
voted by roll call to enter executive session.  During the executive session, which lasted 
approximately one hour, the Committee discussed a request to start the 2026-2027 school year 
prior to Labor Day, 2026.  The Committee then discussed an extension of the Superintendent’s 
contract.  Following the discussion, which is not summarized in the minutes, the Committee 
voted in favor of a motion “for offering a salary of $213,000 with a six (6) year contract.”  
Superintendent Lori Duerr was in attendance during the initial open session on May 13, and for 
part of the executive session.  She left approximately halfway through the executive session, 
presumably when the Committee reached the topic of her contract.   
 
The contract was executed on or about May 20.  The Committee has indicated that it was 
executed with the understanding that it would not be effective until the Committee voted on it in 
open session but has not argued that any such condition is incorporated into the terms of the 
contract.  At its June 10 meeting, the Committee voted in open session to approve the contract 
with the Superintendent.
4  The chair explained that “this vote tonight is to approve the majority 
vote of the committee done in executive session of the superintendent’s contract.”  Committee 
member Katrina Nevin stated that she would not be voting in favor of the contract because it was 
a six-year term, which is not ordinary; she would have preferred a three-year term.  The 
Committee did not open the topic of the contract to public comment prior to holding the vote to 
approve it on June 10. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. Notice of the May 13 meeting was not sufficiently specific. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law states that a public body may 
meet in executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes.  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a).  One 
 
3 The notice also states under public comment that “[d]ue to the Open Meeting Law, the Committee cannot act of 
public comment.”  This is not accurate.  The Committee may take action on any topic that the chair did not 
reasonably anticipate 48 hours prior to the meeting. 
4 Minutes of the June 10 meeting include the following: “ACT on Superintendent’s Contract MOTION by Kelly 
Welch to approve Superintendent Duerr’s contract. SECONDED by Melissa Keefe. DISCUSSION. VOTE. 
Opposed: Mike Heylin and Katrina Nevin. In Favor: All Others. MOTION CARRIES.” 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
permissible purpose for executive session is to “conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract 
negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”).  The scope of 
Purpose 2 is limited to the discussions, negotiations, and deliberations that occur prior to the 
execution of a contract.  See OML 2024-52; OML 2023-78.5  When convening in executive 
session under Purpose 2, public bodies should identify, both in their notice and in the open 
session announcement, the name of the specific nonunion personnel that is the subject of 
discussion under Purpose 2, unless disclosure would compromise the public body’s negotiating 
position.  See OML 2024-228; OML 2022-29; OML 2016-70; OML 2015-193.   
 
In the notice of the Committee’s May 13 meeting, as well as during the announcement to 
enter executive session, the Committee did not identify the nonunion personnel with whom it 
was conducting contract negotiations.  The Committee does not argue that it would have 
compromised its negotiating position to identify the Superintendent as the nonunion personnel 
with whom it was negotiating.  Indeed, Superintendent Duerr was present when the Committee 
voted to enter executive session and attended part of the executive session.  She knew that the 
Committee was convening in executive session to discuss the contract with her.  By failing to 
identify her in the notice and in the announcement prior to entering executive session, the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2024-47 (because Deputy Director of 
Planning attended executive session, it would not have compromised Commission’s negotiating 
position to disclose that she was the subject of the discussion); OML 2013-195 (revealing name 
of individual whose contract was being discussed would not have been detrimental to Board’s 
negotiating position because union and non-union employees whose contracts were being 
negotiated were aware of executive sessions).  
 
II. The Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it executed the contract 
with Superintendent Duerr prior to approving it in open session. 
 
When meeting under Purpose 2, a public body may agree on the terms of a contract with 
individual non-union personnel in executive session.  However, the final vote to execute such an 
agreement must be taken by the public body in open session.  See OML 2025-152; OML 2024-
52; OML 2013-97; OML 2011-15.  The scope of Purpose 2 is limited to the discussions, 
negotiations, and deliberations that occur prior to the execution of a contract. See OML 2025-
152; OML 2023-78; OML 2012-66 (explaining that “once the negotiations concluded, the 
Committee was obligated to return to open session to vote on the contract extension.”).   
 
After a public body has agreed to the terms of a contract in an executive session held 
under Purpose 2, it must vote on the contract in open session prior to executing it.  See OML 
2013-97 (finding that Board violated Open Meeting Law by failing to vote on contracts in open 
session before executing them).  We acknowledge that the contract was not executed during the 
May 8 executive session and that the Committee did vote to approve the contract in open session.  
However, when the Committee voted to approve the contract on June 10, it had already signed 
the contract.  When signing the contract on May 20, prior to approval in open session, the 
Committee implicitly relied on the May 13 vote approving the terms in executive session.  As the 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
complainant alleges, the Committee essentially approved the contract in executive session, 
something we have consistently said a public body may not do.  Barring any indication that by 
the terms of the executed contract it was not effective until approved in open session, the June 10 
vote was a superfluous ceremony without practical import.  Because the Committee executed the 
Superintendent’s contract prior to voting to approve it in open session, we find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law.   
 
III. We decline to review the remaining allegations of the complaint. 
 
The complainant alleges that the Committee suppressed public comment and refused to 
provide or discuss the Superintendent’s evaluation.  The complainant further alleges that the 
Committee violated the Law when it ratified the Superintendent’s contract without discussion 
and without allowing the public to see it.  Even if true, such allegations do not state a violation 
under the Open Meeting Law and we decline to review them.   
 
The Law gives the chair of the public body discretion to decide whether to permit public 
comment during a meeting, and if public comment will be permitted, to set restrictions on public 
comment.  See OML 2025-148; OML 2020-9; OML 2014-23.  Moreover, a public body, in its 
discretion, decides which discussion topics to include in a meeting notice and may decline to 
discuss topics at any time without violating the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2018-65; OML 
2016-76.  Once a meeting begins, the public body controls its own agenda.  See OML 2024-129; 
OML 2022-153; OML 2014-35.  There is nothing within the Open Meeting Law that dictates the 
length or substance of a discussion to approve a contract.  Nor does the Law require the public to 
see a contract before a public body votes to approve it. 
 
Finally, to the extent that the complainant alleges that one or more notice of the 
Committee’s meetings should have included an anticipated vote, we decline to review that 
allegation as well.  We have consistently explained that it is reasonably foreseeable that a public 
body may take action and hold a vote following discussion of a topic listed on a meeting notice; 
the Open Meeting Law does not require that the notice separately indicate the possibility of a 
vote.  See, e.g., OML 2024-192; OML 2019-157; OML 2015-66. 
 
IV. Investigation of the complaint revealed other instances of non-compliance that 
were not raised by the complainant. 
 
Although not raised in the complaint, we take this opportunity to clarify certain other 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law.  During the May 13 meeting, the Committee discussed 
the start date of the 2026-2027 school year.  This topic was not an appropriate topic for executive 
session unless it was part of a discussion that falls within the 10 allowable purposes for an 
executive session.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b).  Executive session purposes are narrowly construed.  
See OML 2025-122; OML 2022-201; OML 2020-76.  Even if the topic had been discussed in 
open session, it should have been listed on the notice if anticipated 48 hours prior to the meeting.  
Notice of the May 13 meeting did not include the 2026-2027 school year calendar as a topic to 
be discussed.   
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
We also note that minutes of at least two meetings held by the Committee did not contain 
sufficient detail.  Public bodies are required to “create and maintain accurate minutes of all 
meetings, including executive sessions.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); 940 CMR 29.11(1).  The minutes 
must set forth “the date, time and place [of the meeting], the members present or absent, a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  While minutes do not have to be a transcript, it is insufficient to 
state simply that a discussion was had about a particular topic; rather, the minutes should include 
sufficient detail about the discussion so that a member of the public who was not present for the 
meeting could understand what, in fact, was discussed. See OML 2015-49; OML 2014-34; OML 
2014-12.  Additionally, minutes may not simply reference a document without summarizing the 
discussion which was had during the meeting.  See OML 2025-6; 2024-25; see also OML 2023-
11 (noting that “[s]imply attaching a report does not meet the Board’s obligation to summarize 
the discussion in its minutes.”).  We recommend that the Committee revise any minutes that do 
not include the requisite level of detail, including minutes of the April 15 retreat and of the May 
13 executive session.  Finally, we note that the roll call vote to enter executive session on May 
13 is reflected as “unanimous” in the minutes of that meeting.  The Committee is reminded that 
even unanimous votes must be recorded by roll call in the minutes.  See OML 2019-32, OML 
2015-131; OML 2013-195. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it posted insufficiently specific notice of its May 13 meeting, and when it signed the 
contract with the Superintendent prior to holding a vote to approve it in open session.  We order 
the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that 
a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  In light of the violations found here, and considering 
the various other compliance concerns we note above but that were not expressly raised in the 
complaint, we further order all members of the Committee to attend an Open Meeting 
Law training webinar provided by our office within 90 days of the date of this letter, and to 
certify to our office that they have done so.6  We decline to nullify the vote to approve the 
Superintendent’s contract taken on May 13, as requested by the complainant, as the Committee 
did discuss and vote on the contract in open session on June 10.   
 
  
 
6 Information on upcoming webinars is available on the Attorney General’s website, https://wwwmass.gov/service- 
details/open-meeting-law-trainings. 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
 
cc: Falmouth School Committee (via email: schoolcommittee@falmouth.k12.ma.us) 
 Michael Palmer, Town Clerk, Falmouth Town Clerk (via email: 
michael.palmer@falmouthma.gov) 
 Raquel Russell (via email: ) 
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
