===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
August 13, 2019
OML 2019-101
Timothy Luff 
Assistant Superintendent 
Natick Public Schools 
13 East Central Street 
Natick, MA 01760
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Assistant Superintendent Luff:
This determination addresses a complaint that Ronald Alexander filed with this office on 
April 2, alleging that the Natick School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 During the prior year Mr. Alexander filed over 600 
separate open meeting law complaints with the Committee; this determination addresses the 
complaint that Mr. Alexander identifies as #604. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on February 26. You responded, on behalf of the Committee, on March 11. The 
complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in several ways pertaining 
to its January 28 meeting. Specifically, the complaint alleges:
a. The meeting agenda was not posted with 48 hours notice.
b. The meeting agenda does not state the date/time that the agenda was posted.
c. The meeting agenda does not state “open session” to account for the short open 
session prior to the executive session.
d. A Committee member (Mr. David Mangan) other than the Chair Lisa Tanenkin 
stated the purpose(s) for the executive session.
e. The chair failed to declare that having its discussion in open session would have a 
detrimental effect on its bargaining position.
f. The executive session was not posted on the meeting agenda.
g. The subjects “Discuss the Release of Minutes” and “Legal and Joint Facilities” 
are not sufficiently detailed that a member of the public would know what was to 
be discussed.
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2019.

===PAGE 2===
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
in any of the ways alleged, although we do separately note a different violation. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, 
and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed three 
versions of the meeting notice for the January 28: the meeting notice that the Town Clerk printed 
on January 24 from the Committee’s online NovusAGENDA portal; the meeting notice that the 
Committee distributed at the January 28 meeting; and the meeting notice that Mr. Alexander 
accessed from the Committee’s online portal and attached to his February 26 complaint. We 
reviewed an email that the Committee’s executive assistant sent to the Town Clerk with a link to 
the January 28 meeting notice. In addition, we reviewed draft and final meeting minutes for the 
January 28 meeting and the video of the January 28 meeting.2 Finally, we spoke with you by 
phone on August 7 and with the Committee’s executive assistant on August 8.
FACTS
We find the facts, generally, as follows. On January 24, at approximately 4:40 pm, the 
Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on January 28 at 6:00 PM. The Committee 
posted the meeting notice to its website using the NovusAGENDA portal, which is the web 
portal that the Committee, as well as other Town boards and committees, uses to post meeting 
notices on the Town’s website. The Town Clerk then received notification that the meeting 
notice had been posted, and at approximately 4:44 pm on January 24, the Town Clerk printed the 
January 28 meeting notice from the website, time-stamped it, and filed the notice in the Clerk’s 
office.
The meeting notice stated on the masthead a start time of 6:00 pm, and also stated below 
that, “6:00PM Open Meeting; 6:05PM Executive Session, 7:15PM Open Session (times are 
approximate).” The Committee convened as scheduled on January 28. A copy of the meeting 
notice was distributed at the January 28 meeting. The Committee Chair was not present at the 
start of the meeting. After opening the meeting, Committee Vice-Chair David Mangan moved to 
enter executive session, and stated the purposes for the executive session, as listed on the 
meeting notice. The Committee discussed two litigation matters in executive session. The 
Committee then reconvened in Open Session and continued its meeting.
We discuss additional facts as appropriate in the discussion that follows.
DISCUSSION
I. The Committee Timely Posted Notice of its January 28 Meeting. Which Notice
Included the Date and Time it was Posted.
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of all meetings at least 48 
hours in advance, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The 
date and time that the notice is posted must be conspicuously recorded on or with the notice
2 Video of the January 28 meeting is available at
https://videoplayer.telvue.com/player/994DtmGEsi0VDYK3jJI2BJ72GfgNIpU2/media/4193817autostart
=false&showtabssearch=true
2

===PAGE 3===
itself. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(d). As a preliminary matter, we note that the Town of Natick has 
adopted its municipal website as the official method of notice posting, in accordance with 940 
CMR 29.03(2)(b). Therefore, when reviewing the sufficiency of a meeting notice, we must 
review the official version of the meeting notice as posted to the website. The complaint alleges 
both that the notice for the Committee’s January 28 meeting was not posted 48 hours in advance, 
and also that the meeting notice does not state the date and time it was posted.
Indeed, there is a discrepancy between the meeting notice that the Committee states it 
posted on January 24 at approximately 4:40 pm, which the clerk printed and time-stamped on 
January 24 at 4:44 PM and which was distributed at the January 28 meeting, and the meeting 
notice that the complainant attached to his February 26 Open Meeting Law complaint. There 
are two differences between the notice that the Committee states it posted on January 24, and the 
notice that the complainant later accessed from the Town’s website. First, the notice that the 
Committee provided states near the top “Posted Date” and then states “January 24, 2019 
@4:40pm.” The version that the complainant submitted states “Posted Date” and then is blank. 
Second, the notice that the Committee provided includes near the end a box containing the 
header “EXECUTIVE SESSION - this portion of the meeting is not open to the public” followed 
by four executive session topics, whereas the version that the complainant submitted omits the 
box with the “EXECUTIVE SESSION” header, but identically lists the four executive session 
topics.
The Committee uses a portal called NovusAGENDA to post its meeting notices 
electronically, which then are linked from the Committee’s website. The Committee responds 
that the meeting notice that it posted on January 24 included both the date and time that the 
notice was posted, and the box with the executive session header, and the notice was somehow 
compromised after the fact. Portions of the notice are automatically generated through 
NovusAGENDA; for example, headings appear by default, but the specific topics are inputted 
manually. The Committee explained that it posts its meeting notices online using 
NovusAGENDA. After posting the meeting notice online, the Committee’s executive assistant 
emails the Town Clerk with a link to the newly-posted meeting notice, the Town Clerk then 
accesses the notice through NovusAGENDA, prints it, time stamps it, and files it in the Town 
Clerk’s office, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b). The Committee submitted to this 
office a copy of the meeting notice that the Town Clerk had printed, which includes a web 
header and footer showing that it was printed on January 24 from the NovusAGENDA site, and 
also is time-stamped by the Town Clerk’s Office “RECEIVED 2019 JAN 24 PM 4:44 TOWN 
CLERK-NATICK.” The Committee states that the notice that the complainant attached to his 
February 26 complaint had been compromised somehow. The Committee followed up with 
NovusAGENDA to try to determine what had happened.
We are thus left with differing versions of the meeting notice. Neither the Committee nor 
the complainant has provided us with a screen shot or similar evidence to show exactly what 
appeared on the Committee’s website 48 hours prior to the meeting, nor would we expect such 
evidence to exist. The best evidence we have is the meeting notice that the Town Clerk accessed 
online, printed, and time-stamped at 4:44 pm, which was just over 48 hours, not including 
weekends, prior to the meeting. Furthermore, absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we 
credit a public body’s account of the facts. See OML 2019-73; OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141;
3

===PAGE 4===
See also LaPointe v. License Board of Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) (“There is every 
presumption in favor of the honesty and sufficiency of the motives actuating public officers in 
actions ostensibly taken for the general welfare.”). We therefore find that notice of the 
Committee’s January 28 meeting was posted online at 4:40 PM on January 24, and that the 
notice that was posted at that time was the version the Town Clerk printed four minutes later, 
which included on the notice the date and time of posting. Accordingly, we conclude that the 
Committee timely posted notice of its January 28 meeting, and that the notice included the date 
and time of posting, in accordance with the Open Meeting Law.
II. The Committee’s January 28 Meeting Notice Contained Sufficient Notice That an
Open Session Would be Held.
Prior to entering into executive session, a public body must convene in open session, the 
chair must state the purpose to the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called, and a majority of 
the members of the public body must vote to enter into executive session. G.L. c. 30A,
§§ 21 (b)(l)-(3). The complaint alleges that the January 28 “meeting agenda does not state ‘open 
session’ to account for the short open session prior to the executive session.” The notice for the 
Committee’s January 28 meeting made clear that the meeting began at 6:00 PM, and further 
stated “6:00PM Open Meeting; 6:05PM Executive Session, 7:15PM Open Session (times are 
approximate).” We therefore conclude that it was clear that the Committee would hold a short 
open session prior to convening in executive session.
Indeed, even if the meeting notice had not included the added detail to inform the public 
that the meeting would open at 6:00, followed by executive session at 6:05 and then a return to 
open session at 7:15, we likely would find that the meeting notice complied with the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law. We have said in the past that when the only business to 
be discussed during an open session are the procedural requirements for entering executive 
session, public bodies must list an open session on the meeting notice, as this is the only means 
by which members of the public are informed that a public body will, in fact, hold an open 
meeting that they are permitted to attend. See OML 2018-80; OML 2013-9; OML 2012-68.3 
However, where additional open session topics are included in a meeting notice, as was the case 
here, we have not required that a public body list an open session as a distinct topic. See OML 
2019-80; 2018-80; OML 2015-157; OML 2015-110; OML 2015-105. In any event, here, the 
Committee’s meeting notice went the extra step and expressly listed an open session (identified 
as “Open Meeting”) prior to the executive session. The Committee therefore did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law.
III. The Acting Chair Appropriately Made the Statement of the Purpose for the Executive
Session.
The complainant alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when 
someone other than the Chair stated the purpose for the executive session. The Open Meeting 
Law specifically provides that the chair must state the purposes for executive session. See G.L. c.
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
4

===PAGE 5===
30A, § 21(b)(3) (“before the executive session, the chair shall state the purpose for the 
executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose 
for which the executive session was called[.]”). Chair Tabenkin was not present at the start of 
the meeting, and in her absence, Vice-Chair David Mangan made the statement regarding the 
purpose for the executive session. The Committee’s written policy entitled “School Committee 
Organizational Meeting, Officers and Officials,” at section B.3., Duties of the Vice-Chairperson, 
expressly states “the Vice-Chairperson of the Committee will assume the duties of the 
Chairperson when the Chairperson is absent or incapacitated.” Therefore, in Chair Tabenkin’s 
absence, Vice-Chair Mangan clearly was acting as chair, and the Committee complied with the 
requirement in the Open Meeting Law that the chair state the purpose for the executive session.4
IV. The Committee Did Not Discuss Bargaining in Executive Session, But Did Discuss
Litigation.
A public body may enter executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a). Among the ten purposes is Purpose 3, which states that a public body may enter 
executive session to “discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body 
and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). The complaint alleges that the Chair “failed 
to declare that having its discussion in open session would have a detrimental effect on its 
bargaining position.” The Committee responds that there was no executive session discussion 
around bargaining. The Committee is correct; the only executive session matters that were 
discussed were litigation matters. Therefore, we find that the Committee did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law as alleged.
Although not alleged in the complaint, we note that although the Committee did not 
discuss bargaining matters in executive session, it did discuss litigation. The same section of the 
Open Meeting Law that requires the chair to state that having its discussion of collective 
bargaining strategy in open session would have a detrimental effect on its bargaining position, 
also requires the chair to state that having a discussion of litigation strategy in open session 
would have a detrimental effect on the public body’s litigating position. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). 
The public body is not required to establish at the meeting that holding the discussion in open 
session would have a detrimental effect on its litigating position, but the chair is required under 
the Law to make the statement. See OML 2012-118. The chair did not state prior to entering 
executive session at its January 28 meeting that having its discussions regarding litigation in 
open session would have a detrimental effect on its litigating position.
V. The January 28 Meeting Notice Provided Sufficient Notice of the Anticipated
Executive Session.
4 Even in the absence of such an express policy, we would find that a public body satisfies this 
requirement of the Law when the person acting as chair at a given meeting makes the statement regarding 
the purpose for the executive session. To find otherwise would unreasonably hamstring a public body in 
a chair’s absence.
5

===PAGE 6===
Next, the complaint alleges that “the executive session was not posted on the meeting 
agenda.” Here, as discussed in Section I above, the versions of the January 28 meeting notice 
that the complainant and the Committee provided to our office differ. On the complainant’s 
version, the heading “EXECUTIVE SESSION - this portion of the meeting is not open to the 
public” is missing. However, the specific topics for discussion are identically listed on the two 
versions of the notice. For the reasons explained above, we accept that the version of the 
meeting notice that the Committee has provided is the version that was posted 48 hours in 
advance of the meeting. Nonetheless, we take this opportunity to address the allegation in the 
complaint that the omission of the “EXECUTIVE SESSION” header violates the Open Meeting 
Law.
There is no requirement in either the Open Meeting Law or in the regulations that a 
meeting notice include a heading of “Executive Session” above the specific topics that are 
anticipated to be discussed in executive session. Rather, the Open Meeting Law requires a 
public body to post notice that includes a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics 
in a meeting notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to include 
sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35; OML 
2012-71; OML 2011 -44. Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice 
and in the announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. See District Attorney for 
N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. Of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (“[a] precise statement of the reason 
for convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting law because that is the 
only notification given to the public that the school committee would conduct business in 
private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or 
improper.”); see G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b), 21(b)(3); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).
Furthermore, the specific detail to be included for an executive session topic depends on 
which of the executive session purposes the discussion falls within. For example, we have said 
that, generally, a public body convening in executive session under Purpose 2 should identify on 
the meeting notice the specific nonunion personnel to be discussed, and a public body convening 
in executive session under Purpose 3 should identify the specific bargaining unit and/or litigation 
matters to be discussed, if doing so would not compromise the lawful purpose for the executive 
session. See, e.g.. OML 2018-39; OML 2017-143; OML 2017-87; OML 2015-44. Similarly, a 
public body convening in executive session under Purpose 6 generally should identify the 
specific real property to be discussed. See, e.g., OML 2016-50; OML 2016-5.
Therefore, when determining whether a meeting notice is sufficiently detailed as to an 
executive session topic, we look at the information that is included as to each specific topic. We 
do not require that a meeting notice include any particular overarching heading, as long as the 
required information and detail is included. Here, as explained in section I above, we find that 
the version of the meeting notice that was posted 48 hours in advance of the meeting did include 
the “executive session” heading. Nonetheless, even without an express “executive session” 
heading, the detail included in the January 28 meeting notice, which included a citation to the
6

===PAGE 7===
specific section of the Open Meeting Law governing executive sessions, would have provided 
sufficient notice to the public of topics to be discussed in executive session.
VI. The Committee Did Not Discuss the Topics “Discuss the Release of Minutes” or
“Legal and Joint Facilities” and Therefore Did Not Violate the Law by Posting an
Insufficiently Detailed Notice.
As stated above, the Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each 
meeting containing a sufficiently specific listing of topics to be discussed at the meeting. The 
complaint alleges that the notice for the Committee’s January 28 meeting, which included the 
topics “Discuss the Release of Minutes” and “Legal and Joint Facilities,” was insufficiently 
detailed because a member of the public would not understand what was to be discussed as to 
those two topics. The Committee responds that it did not actually discuss those topics at its 
January 28 meeting. We have previously stated that “where a public body does not actually 
engage in any deliberation on a particular topic, it cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with 
respect to the sufficiency of the meeting notice.” OML 2016-76; see also OML 2018-22; OML 
2017-11; OML 2015-37. We therefore find that where the Committee did not actually discuss 
the topics in question, the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law, and we need not 
resolve whether the topics would have been deemed sufficiently specific had they been 
discussed.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law in any of the seven ways alleged, although we independently note that the chair did 
not make a statement prior to entering executive session that discussing the litigation matters in 
open session would compromise the Committee’s litigating position. We advise the Committee 
to include this statement in the future before entering executive session under Purpose 3. We 
now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination 
does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Committee. 
Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this 
letter.
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Ronald Alexander
Natick School Committee
7

===PAGE 8===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member of a 
body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
8
