===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL:(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 25, 2016 
OML 2016-9 
Michele E. Randazzo, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Randazzo: 
This office received a complaint from Erin Sullivan, dated November 25, 2015, alleging 
that the Sandwich Historic District Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 3 OA, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that a quorum of the Committee 
deliberated privately following its August 26, 2015 meeting. The complaint was originally filed 
with the Committee on September 22, 2015. The Committee responded by letter dated October 
29, 2015, following an extension of time granted by our office. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
briefly deliberating in private after its August 26, 2015 meeting. However, we do not find this to 
be an intentional violation of the Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
complaint filed with the Committee, the Committee's response, and the complaint filed with our 
office. We reviewed the minutes of the Committee's August 26, 2015 meeting. We spoke by 
telephone separately with the complainant and with Chair Bill Collins on January 13, 2016; and 
with Committee members Mary Foley and Richard Alger on January 14, 2016. 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a five-member public body. The 
Committee held a noticed meeting on August 26, 2015. That meeting concluded at 
approximately 9:10 PM. After attendees had left the room, three Committee members and the 
Committee's secretary, who was not a member of the Committee, remained while the 
Committee's secretary gathered her belongings. The Committee members present were Chair 
Bill Collins, Mary Foley, and Richard Alger. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
During this period after the meeting, Ms. Foley commented to the other two members 
that the Committee's continued study of materials provided by the Old King's Highway 
Regional Historic District Commission's counsel would provide the Committee with some 
precedent for its consideration of applications going forward. Mr. Collins replied that each 
application needed to be considered individually, in accordance with the Regional Commission's 
guidelines. Additional communication between the three followed, on matters unrelated to the 
Committee's business. 
Ms. Sullivan, who had attended the August 26, 2015 meeting, returned to the building 
after the meeting had ended and overheard some of the conversation between the three members. 
She states in her complaint that she heard the Committee members discussing Committee policy, 
including Chair Collins explaining that buildings need to fit with the neighborhood and setting, if 
a building is located in an important area such as Main Street. Ms. Sullivan states that she heard 
Ms. Foley respond that she was concerned about setting precedent. According to Ms. Sullivan, 
the conversation lasted several minutes. The members deny discussing any specific application 
before the Committee or Committee policy, however. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines "meeting" as "a deliberation by a public body 
with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. BOA, § 18. A "deliberation" is 
defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, 
between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; 
provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, 
scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports 
or documents that may be discussed at the a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed." Id. Expression of an opinion on matters within a body's jurisdiction to a quorum of 
a public body is a deliberation, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 2014-
148; OML 2013-29; OML 2013-27; OML 2012-15.1 
Three members of the Committee were present during a brief verbal exchange about 
documents that the Committee members were reviewing. Because this was a communication 
between or among a quorum on public business within the Committee's jurisdiction, it violated 
the Open Meeting Law. However, we do not find this to be an intentional violation the law, as 
the Board members believed they were discussing administrative matters that did not constitute 
deliberation. We note that during the Committee's October 28, 2015 meeting, after reviewing 
the complaint, the Committee advised its members to be mindful to avoid any discussion on 
issues within its jurisdiction outside of meetings. It also pledged to hold a fresh discussion on 
the concept of "precedent" as it applies to Committee proceedings. We find this to be an 
appropriate remedial measure. 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/opemneeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by briefly engaging in 
deliberation following its August 26, 2015 meeting. We do not find this to be an intentional 
violation. We order the Committee's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, and caution the Committee that a similar, future violation may be considered evidence of 
an intentional violation of the Law. 
We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve 
any other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Committee. Please feel 
free to contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
^ 'Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Sandwich Historic District Committee 
Erin Sullivan 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain Judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 