===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 28, 2015 
OML 2015-55 
Mark Lanza, Esq. 
Town Counsel 
Town of Wayland 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Lanza: 
This office received a complaint from George Harris on November 10,1 alleging that 
the Wayland School Committee (the Committee) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about 
September 15, and Chair Ellen Grieco responded, on behalf of the Committee, to the 
complaint by letter dated September 26. In his complaint, Mr. Harris alleges that an executive 
session topic in the notice for the Committee's August 28 meeting was insufficient. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this 
matter. Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include sufficient detail in its meeting notice, in the chair's verbal statement prior to 
the executive session, and in its executive session minutes. In reaching a determination, we 
reviewed the September 15 complaint; the September 26 response to the complaint; the 
November 10 complaint filed with our office requesting further review; and your November 
18 letter to our office.2 We also reviewed the notice and open and executive session minutes 
from the Committee's August 28 meeting. Finally, we spoke with Chair Grieco by telephone 
on March 17, 2015. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee convened a meeting on August 28 to 
discuss, amongst other topics, several matters in executive session. The meeting notice, 
posted on August 25, listed among the topics for discussion the following: "8. Executive 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 2===
Session (f) Comply with the Provisions of a General Law of the Commonwealth Pursuant to 
M.G.L. Chapter 30A §21(a)(7)." Attorney Lanza drafted the language for this topic, 
deliberately omitting the specific statute that required confidentiality out of concern that it 
would reveal the specific sensitive nature of the topic. 
The day before posting this notice. Chair Grieco, who was newly appointed as Chair, 
sought the advice of fellow Committee member Donna Bouchard on the proper language to 
include on the notice for the various executive session topics planned for the meeting. Ms. 
Bouchard advised her that the description of the Purpose 7 topic should also include the 
statute that required confidentiality and suggested that Chair Grieco contact our office for 
advice.3 Subsequently, on August 26, Chair Grieco sought counsel's advice concerning the 
specificity of this topic as it was stated (and already posted) on the meeting notice. A few 
hours later, Attorney Lanza supplemented his advice in an email to Chair Grieco, 
recommending that she cite to the Public Records Law as the statute requiring confidentiality, 
describing it as "Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 4, § 7, Clause 26th (c)." The Public 
Records Law was not the statute that Attorney Lanza was initially concerned about listing on 
the notice, however. This suggested revision to the meeting notice was never made, as Chair 
Grieco was out of town during this process and did not see Attorney Lanza's proposed 
revision until after the meeting occurred.4 
During the August 28 meeting, when the Committee reached this part of the agenda, it 
approved a vote by roll call to convene in executive session to discuss a list of matters, 
including "to comply with the provisions of a General Law of the Commonwealth pursuant to 
M.G.L. Chapter 30A §21(a)(7)" and announced that it would reconvene in open session 
thereafter.5 During the executive session, the Committee briefly discussed a confidential 
matter concerning a minor, pursuant to Purpose 7. The meeting minutes are brief and do not 
identify the specific matter that was discussed, however, referring to it as "this matter." 
While a document was discussed, it is not identified in the meeting minutes, either during the 
discussion of this topic or in the list of documents at the end of the minutes.6 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). However, the Open Meeting Law permits public 
bodies to enter executive session and conduct deliberations outside the public view for any of 
ten specific purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One appropriate purpose for an executive session 
is "to comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or special law or federal grant-
in-aid requirements." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7) ("Purpose 7"). A public body entering 
executive session under Purpose 7 must state the specific law that requires the public body to 
J Our office has no record of receiving such an inquiry. 
4 Ms Grieco left for vacation on August 22 and returned on August 28. She contends that, during that time, she 
did not see Attorney Lanza's email. 
5 We note that Ms. Bouchard was absent for this meeting. 
6 The Committee released a redacted version of the minutes to the public. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
keep its deliberations confidential unless doing so would compromise the purpose for the 
closed door session. See District Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. Of Wavland. 455 
Mass. 561, 569 (explaining proper use of Purpose 7 to enter executive session requires 
enumeration of enabling law). 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed 
at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting 
notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed 
at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to include sufficient 
specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the 
anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2011-44. 
I. The Committee's Purpose 7 Executive Session Topic was Not Sufficiently 
Specific in Both the Meeting Notice and the Chair's Verbal Statement Prior to 
the Executive Session. 
Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in the 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. See District Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. 
Comm. Of Wavland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening 
in executive session is necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only 
notification given to the public that the school committee would conduct business in private, 
and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper."); 
see G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b), 21(b)(3); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). The Committee convened in 
executive session on August 28, in part, pursuant to Purpose 7. The Committee did not 
identify the statute that required its deliberations be kept confidential, either in the meeting 
notice or in the announcement in open session. In response to this complaint, however, the 
Committee identified exemption (c) of the Public Records Law, G.L. Chapter 4, § 7, Clause 
26, as the statute requiring confidentiality. See OML 2012-12; see also Dist. Attorney for N. 
Dist. v. School Committee of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 569 (2009) (explaining that the proper 
use of Purpose 7 to enter executive session requires the enumeration of the enabling law). 
A public body may enter executive session under Purpose 7 to "act under the 
authority" of the Public Records Law if, for example, it is discussing whether to release a 
document it has lawfully withheld, considering a document that state law requires to be kept 
confidential, or discussing information contained in a document that would infringe on an 
individual's right to privacy if revealed publicly. See OML 2012-104; see also OML 2011-53 
(finding that a public body could enter executive session under Purpose 7 and cite the Public 
Records Law or Right to Privacy Law to discuss an individual's medical reimbursement 
because a public discussion would have violated that individual's statutorily protected right to 
privacy). Here, the Committee's discussion stemmed from a document submitted to the 
Committee, which was substantively discussed during the meeting. The document was a 
complaint submitted to the Committee about a topic concerning a minor and included a 
request that the Committee consider improving related policies on the matter. The discussion 
3 
===PAGE 4===
surrounding this document would have been appropriately held in executive session under 
Exemption (c) of the Public Records Law, if that topic had been stated, because counsel 
believed that discussion of this document in open session would have infringed on a minor's 
right to privacy and violated a provision of state law that counsel felt could not be enumerated 
without compromising confidentiality. While the executive session was proper, because 
identifying the Public Records Law as the statute requiring confidentiality would not have 
compromised the purpose for the executive session, the Committee should have cited to the 
Public Records Law, both in the meeting notice and in the announcement prior to convening 
in executive session.7 See OML 2014-97; OML 2014-42; see also OML 2011-54 (a public 
body may determine whether citing to the specific statute would defeat the purpose for 
confidentiality). 
As a result of these procedural violations, the Committee may not continue to rely 
upon the Open Meeting Law as the basis for withholding portions of its August 28 executive 
session minutes relating to its Purpose 7 discussion. See G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(1) (minutes of an 
executive session may be withheld from disclosure to the public as long as publication may 
defeat the lawful purposes of an executive session, provided that the executive session was 
held in compliance with the Open Meeting Law)', OML 2014-42; OML 2014-30; OML 2014-
17. Lhe Committee may continue to withhold the minutes from the general public, in whole 
or in part, under any applicable exemptions to the Public Records Law or the attorney-client 
privilege. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
Lhis is not the first time that the Committee has violated the Open Meeting Law in this 
manner. In OML 2014-42, issued on April 28, we found that the Committee intentionally 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include sufficient detail in its meeting notice. 
The Committee listed "Personnel matter" on the meeting notice for an anticipated executive 
session convened under Purpose 7. We found this violation to be intentional because our 
office had previously advised the Committee about the same conduct in OML 2011-9. While 
the present violation occurred just a few months after we issued OML 2014-42, we decline to 
find this most recent violation to be intentional. 
A violation of the Open Meeting Law will not be considered an intentional violation 
"[w]here a public body has.. .acted in good faith compliance with the advice of the public 
body's legal counsel[.]" 940 CMR 29.02. Here, the Committee acted on advice of counsel 
when it decided initially not to post the statute requiring confidentiality in its meeting notice. 
While counsel subsequently offered supplemental guidance, we find that the Chair's failure to 
see that guidance prior to the meeting did not transform this decision into an intentional 
violation of the law. We therefore find the violation was not intentional. 
7 Before entering the executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive session, stating all 
subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called, and 
the chair must publicly announce whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive 
session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). 
4 
===PAGE 5===
II. The Executive Session Minutes are Not Sufficiently Detailed. 
Additionally, although not alleged in the complaint, we find that the section of the 
August 28 executive session minutes concerning the discussion under Purpose 7 is 
insufficient for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting Law requires that a 
public body "create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive 
sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of 
the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and offered vague details of the discussion by the actions taken at each 
meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). While the minutes must 
include a summary of the discussions on each subject, a transcript is not required. Minutes 
should contain enough detail and accuracy, however, so that a member of the public who did 
not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what 
occurred. OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. 
The minutes of the Purpose 7 discussion are wholly insufficient, failing to even 
identify the topic or specific matter at issue. We acknowledge that sometimes public business 
can involve the discussion of sensitive topics, however the Open Meeting Law is absolutely 
clear that public bodies must maintain accurate minutes of the entirety of their deliberations in 
order to achieve the purpose of transparency in the formulation of public policy. OML 2013-
14; OML 2012-19. While the Committee must create a complete record of the discussion, 
some or all of that record may be withheld from disclosure pursuant to the protections granted 
under the Public Records Law or the attorney-client privilege. Accordingly, we order the 
Committee to draft and approve revised minutes for the August 28 executive session that 
contain a summary of the Purpose 7 discussion with sufficient detail and accuracy. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that, while the Committee's executive session 
discussion itself was permissible, the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
include sufficient detail in its meeting notice, in the chair's verbal statement prior to the 
executive session, and in its executive session minutes. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that future similar violations may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. Additionally, we order the Committee to 
take the following actions, within thirty (30) days of receipt of this letter: 
(1) draft and approve revised minutes of the Committee's August 28 executive session 
that include the missing detail identified in this letter; and 
(2) release to the public the section of the Committee's August 28 executive session 
minutes concerning the Purpose 7 discussion at issue, unless the attorney-client 
privilege or one or more exemptions to the Public Records Law applies. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
5 
===PAGE 6===
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: George Harris 
Wayland School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
6 