===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
October 7, 2014 
OML 2015-146 
Joyce Mason 
Mashpee Town Manager 
16 Great Neck Road North 
Mashpee, MA 02649 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Mason: 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty on June 17,1 alleging that the Mashpee 
Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. In his 
complaint, Mr. Beaty alleges that during the Board's May 27 meeting the Board discussed and took 
action on a topic that was not listed on the meeting notice. The complaint was originally filed with 
the Board on or about May 29, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated June 10.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching our determination, we reviewed the initial complaint, the Board's response, and the 
complaint filed with our office, requesting further review. In addition, we reviewed the notices of 
and minutes from the Board meetings held on May 27 and June 1. Finally, we spoke with Chair 
John Cahalane on August 11. 
We find the facts as follows. During its May 27 meeting, the Board interviewed three 
candidates for the position of Town Manager. The sole topic on the agenda was described as 
follows: "1) Town Manager Candidates Interviews: 4:00 Peter Johnson-Staub 5:30 Ron San Angelo 
7:00 Rodney Collins." Following the last scheduled interview, the Board discussed the next steps in 
the hiring process and ultimately voted on a final candidate for hire. Leading up to the meeting, 
Chair Cahalane planned on discussing the "next steps" in the hiring process following the last 
interview; however he did not anticipate that the Board would choose a final candidate at that time. 
In response to this complaint, the Board reaffirmed its vote during its June 1 meeting. The 
topic on the meeting notice was described as, "Reaffirmation of Town Manager Appointment- Vote 
Required." According to the meeting minutes. Chair Cahalane stated that the Board's vote during 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 For the purpose of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
the May 27 meeting was "premature" and thus, the Board voted to reaffirm its decision to appoint a 
candidate for the position. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post 
notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b). 
The complainant alleges that during its May 27 meeting, the Board discussed and voted on 
its choice for Town Manager without listing this as a separate topic on the meeting notice. The 
notice indicated that the Board planned to conduct interviews for the position of Town Manager, but 
it did not specifically indicate that the Board planned to discuss the candidates or make a hiring 
decision following those interviews. It is reasonably inferable, however, that a public body may 
take action on any topic listed in a meeting notice. See OML 2015-72; OML 2014-127.3 While it 
may have been helpful to the public had the Board included an additional topic on the notice 
indicating that a discussion about the "next steps" in the hiring process would follow the interviews, 
we find that the notice sufficiently described the anticipated discussion such that any member of the 
public interested in the Town Manager appointment process had sufficient information to decide 
whether to attend the meeting. See id.; OML 2014-102. Thus, the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination 
does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Ronald Beaty 
Mashpee Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member of 
a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations and decimations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rusn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 