===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 14, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 189 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
John P. Fisher 
Assistant City Solicitor 
Law Department 
City Hall 
45 School Street 
Brockton, MA 02301 
jfischer@cobma.us 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Fisher: 
 
This office received a complaint from Veronica Stephens on August 26, 2025,
1 alleging 
that the Brockton Stormwater Authority (the “Authority”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Authority on or about June 20, 
and you responded on behalf of the Authority by letter dated August 29.2  The complaint alleges 
that (1) the notice for the Authority’s May 28 meeting was insufficient because it did not include 
discussion of ten specific projects and that there would be a vote to approve the projects, (2) the 
Authority improperly voted to approve ten backlogged projects collectively for Stormwater 
Permits, (3) the Authority members were not provided with any materials before the meeting, (4) 
minutes and recordings of Authority meetings have not been posted, and (5) the Authority fails 
to provide a remote participation option to disabled or homebound residents. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Authority violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficient notice for its May 28 meeting, but did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
in the other ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Authority’s response, the request for further review of the complaint, and the 
notice for the Authority’s May 28 meeting. 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows.  The Authority posted notice for a meeting to be held 
on May 28 at 6:00 P.M.  The notice listed four topics, including “Acceptance of a new 
application at 124 Westgate Drive” and “Review of various upcoming projects.” 
 
The May 28 meeting was held as planned.  The meeting began with approval of the 
minutes of the previous meeting and discussion of 124 Westgate Drive.  The Authority then 
began discussion over ten backlogged projects.  The chair advised that these other projects were 
still pending reports by the Authority’s outside stormwater management consultant.  The Chair 
expressed his desire to clear the backlog and vote to approve all the projects for a Stormwater 
Permit.  One Authority member disagreed.  There was discussion about whether it was 
appropriate to vote to approve the projects for a Stormwater Permit without a report.  After an 
Authority member stated that the plans go through scrutiny before the Authority’s review, the 
Authority voted to collectively approve all ten backlogged projects. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
1. The Authority Violated the Open Meeting Law When it Posted an Insufficient Notice for 
its May 28 Meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.” Id.  The listing of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's 
discussion. See OML 2024-11; OML 2018-7; OML 2015-35.
3  We have previously stated that 
the Open Meeting Law requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specify so that the 
public can make an informed decision whether to attend the meeting to observe the discussion 
regarding a topic of interest. See OML 2024-11; OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22.   
 
When a public body plans to discuss a specific piece of property, notice of the meeting 
should include sufficient information to identify the property, either by listing the address, 
bordering streets, intersections or landmarks. See OML2023-238; OML 2019-105; OML 2010-2.  
Even a meeting notice that does include a property address may be found to run afoul of the 
Open Meeting Law if it is otherwise insufficiently specific. See OML 2024-11; OML 2023-238 
(notice topic “10 Pleasant Street Change Order” insufficiently specific to inform public of 
anticipated vote to approve change order to demolition project at Pleasant Street to cover cost of 
removing asbestos); OML 2021-13 (notice topic “‘Corner Spot – Cherry Street,’ although it 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
provides the location of the property to be discussed, does not provide any information about the 
anticipated nature of the discussion”); see also OML 2023-100 (notice topic “Authorize ARPA 
Expenditure” in no way advised the public of a discussion about the use of ARPA funding to 
demolish the Old Town Hall Building). 
 
The discussion item “Review of various upcoming projects” did not provide sufficient 
notice as to which ten backlogged projects the Authority would discuss for a Stormwater Permit.  
The discussion item does not identify by address or any other way the projects which would be 
discussed.  Therefore, the Authority violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently 
specific notice for its May 28 meeting. 
 
We do not, however, find that the notice was additionally insufficient for failing to 
specify that a vote would be taken during the May 28 meeting.  The Open Meeting Law does not 
require that the chair of a public body guess what will occur during a meeting, only that the 
topics anticipated for discussion be listed on the notice. See OML 2020-158; OML 2020-31; 
OML 2013-61.  Although it is good practice for a meeting notice to specify that a vote will be 
taken when a vote is indeed anticipated in advance, the Open Meeting Law does not require this. 
See OML 2015-66.  We have explained that it is reasonably foreseeable that a public body might 
take action and hold a vote following discussion of a topic listed on a meeting notice, even where 
the noticed topic does not indicate the possibility of a vote. See OML 2020-99; OML 2018-14; 
OML 2015-66.  As explained above, the meeting notice was insufficiently specific where it did 
not identify the specific projects to be discussed; however, the failure to indicate that a vote 
would be taken does not amount to an additional violation of the Open Meeting Law.   
 
2. We Decline to Review Allegations That, Even if True, Would Not Constitute Violations 
of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
The Division of Open Government’s jurisdiction concerns compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law.  The allegations in the complaint that the Authority (1) failed to make a motion, a 
second and vote to approve ten projects collectively for Stormwater Permits, (2) took an 
improper vote because it approved ten projects with one vote instead of voting for each one 
separately, (3) failed to provide its members with materials about the projects before the meeting, 
(4) failed to post minutes, and recordings of the meetings, and (5) failed to make meetings 
available for members of the public to attend via Zoom, even if true, would not constitute 
violations of the Open Meeting Law. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority 
Board of Commissioners).  With limited exceptions, the Open Meeting Law does not dictate 
voting procedures for meetings, see OML Declination 4-4-2025 (Lawrence City Council); does 
not require that meeting materials be distributed in advance, see OML 2021-32; does not require 
a public body to post minutes or recordings of a meeting, see OML 2018-86; and does not 
require that remote access be provided for a meeting if the meeting is open and accessible for the 
public to attend in person, see OML 2022-65.  Accordingly, we decline to review these 
allegations.  
 
Following receipt of the complaint, the Authority took remedial action in response to this 
complaint by attending an Open Meeting Law training presented by this office; rescinding the 
vote that approved the ten projects; agreeing to work towards developing a more comprehensive 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
template for agendas and minutes to ensure clarity and consistency in the future; agreeing to 
revise its webpage to include all information such as meeting notices, minutes, project 
application materials, project review materials and issued permits; and certifying members’ 
receipt and review of Open Meeting Law materials in accordance with 940 CMR 29.04.  We 
commend the Authority for taking these actions.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Authority violated the Open Meeting Law 
by posting an insufficient notice for its May 28 meeting when it failed to identify the projects 
that would be reviewed.  We find that the Authority did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the 
other ways alleged.  We order the Authority’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent 
to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaint that may be pending with the Authority or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
        
        
       Natalie Reyes, Paralegal 
       Carrie Benedon, Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick Hill, Chair, Brockton Stormwater Authority (via email: phill@cobma.us)  
 Kyle Holden, Brockton Stormwater Authority (via email: kholden@cobma.us) 
Brockton Stormwater Authority (via email: stormwater@cobma.us) 
Veronica Stephens (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
