===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 29, 2016 
OML 2016-161 
Layla Taylor, Esq. 
Sullivan, Hayes & Quirtn, LLC 
One Monarch Place, Suite 1200 
Springfield, MA 01144 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Taylor: 
This office received a complaint from Attorney Robert Leonard, on behalf of 
Wayne Doerpholz, on April 25, alleging that the South Hadley Electric Light Department 
Board of Commissioners (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about March 10, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated June 17.2 In his complaint, Mr. 
Doerpholz alleges that the Board failed to properly respond to his request for executive 
session minutes. In addition, Mr. Doerpholz alleges that the Board failed to list executive 
session topics with sufficient detail on its January 20, February 9, and February 25 meeting 
notices and discussed him in executive sessions during those meetings without notifying 
him and allowing him to be present.3 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to provide sufficient detail about its executive sessions, both in the meeting notice 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 The Board's response was submitted to Mr. Doerpholz and our office months after the complaint was 
initially filed with the Board, We again remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that, within 
14 business days after receiving a complaint, the public body shall review the complaint's allegations; take 
remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of 
any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
3 Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 30 days 
of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). When an alleged violation occurs in open session, the alleged 
violation can reasonably be discovered at the time it occurs. Because the allegation regarding the January 20 
meeting notice could have been discovered by the time the meeting occurred, a complaint containing this 
allegation should have been filed by February 9. Accordingly, we find this allegation untimely and decline to 
review it. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
and in the announcement prior to the executive session, and by failing to properly respond 
to a request for minutes. However, we find that the Board's executive session discussions 
were properly held. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, 
the Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the notice of and minutes from the Board's meetings 
held on January 20; February 9; and February 25. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. Mr. Doerpholz was the Light Department Manager 
until May 31, 2016, at which time his employment contract expired. In early 2016, the 
Board convened in executive session to discuss whether to renew Mr. Doerpholz's 
employment contract. The Board posted notices for meetings to be held on January 20; 
February 9; and February 25. For the January 20 and February 9 notices, the only topic 
listed was the following: "Executive Session to discuss strategy with respect to litigation 
and to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiation with non-union personnel." 
The February 25 notice's sole topic was, "Executive Session for the purpose of contract 
negotiations with non-union personnel." During both the January 20 and February 9 
executive sessions, the Board discussed a pending federal lawsuit filed by a former Light 
Department employee against the Board (and Mr. Doerpholz) and whether to renew Mr. 
Doerpholz's employment contract. Despite having voted in open session on February 17 
that it did not intend to negotiate a new employment contract with Mr. Doerpholz, the 
Board convened in executive session on February 25 executive session to discuss its 
options regarding Mr. Doerpholz's employment status, which included a discussion about 
executing a new contract with Mr. Doerpholz. Board Chair Anne Awad sent a letter to Mr. 
Doerpholz the next day to notify him that the Board did not "intend to negotiate a new 
contract to replace or renew the employment contract that previously expired." 
On February 29, 2016, Mr. Doerpholz sent a letter to Chair Awad requesting "the 
minutes and all related documents of the municipal light board meetings of January 20, 
February 9, & February 25, 2016 meetings."4 On March 7, Chair Awad sent a response by 
letter to Mr. Doerpholz stating, "[a]ll of the Executive Session Minutes, whether approved 
or not, are not to be released until resolution of the various legal challenges being 
addressed by the Board. At such time.. .copies will be sent to you." Mr. Doerpholz then 
filed this complaint with the Board on March 11. 
Mr. Doerpholz sent a follow-up letter to Chair Awad on March 16, 2016, asking for 
the open session minutes, as he had initially requested, as well as an explanation for why 
4 The Open Meeting Law governs requests for meeting minutes and for documents used at a meeting of a 
public body. G.L. c, 30A, § 22. Requests for other documents are governed by the Public Records Law, 
G.L. c, 66, § 10. Accordingly, we limit our review to the request for minutes, only. Mr. Doerpholz may 
appeal to the Supervisor of Records within the Secretary of the Commonwealth's Office to review the 
Board's response with respect to the other documents. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
the requested executive session minutes remain confidential. Chair Awad did not respond 
to this subsequent letter. 
DISCUSSION 
I. While the Board's Executive Session Discussions Were Appropriate, the 
Board Failed to Provide Sufficient Detail of the Topics in its Notice and 
Prior to Entering into Executive Session. 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body may enter executive session for any 
of ten enumerated purposes, provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a 
majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, and that the vote 
of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes. G.L. c. 3OA, §§21 
(a), (b). One executive session purpose allows a public body "[t]o conduct strategy 
sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 3OA, § 
21(a)(2) ("Purpose 2"). Another purpose allows a public body to enter executive session to 
"discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may 
have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the 
chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). 
Before entering the executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the 
executive session, including all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called, and the chair must publicly announce 
whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session. G.L. c. 
3OA, §§ 21(b)(3), (4); see also District Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 
455 Mass. 561, 567 ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive 
session is necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only notification given 
to the public that the school Board would conduct business in private, and the only way the 
public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper."). Public bodies 
should state, both in their notice and in the open session announcement, the name of the 
specific nonunion personnel or litigation matter, unless disclosure would compromise the 
Board's negotiating position. See OML 2015-193; OML 2016-70.5 
The complaint alleges that the Board improperly convened in executive session on 
January 20, February 9 and February 25 without providing Mr. Doerpholz with notice and 
an opportunity to attend, as required when convening under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) 
("Purpose 1"). Purpose 1 allows a public body to enter executive session "to discuss the 
reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional 
competence of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(1). The individual to be discussed during such an executive session must be 
notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive 
session and has the right to be present during deliberations, to have counsel present, and to 
speak on her own behalf. Id. In this instance, however, the Board discussed whether to 
renew Mr. Doerpholz's employment contract, which is permissible under Purpose 2, rather 
than Purpose 1. See OML 2016-58; OML 2015-184. Accordingly, the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law by convening in executive session under Purpose 2 to hold 
those discussions. 
While we find the discussions were appropriate for executive session under 
Purpose 2, the executive session topics, both on the meeting notice and in the 
announcement prior to the executive sessions, lacked sufficient detail. In its response to 
the complaint, the Board asserts that it convened in executive session pursuant to Purposes 
2 and 3 to discuss whether to renew Mr. Doerpholz's employment contract and to discuss a 
pending lawsuit filed against the Board. The Board's February 9 and February 25 meeting 
notices failed to identify the specific nonunion personnel (ie., Mr. Doerpholz) and failed to 
identify the specific litigation matter to be discussed, despite it being a pending matter 
publicly filed in federal court. See OML 2016-57; OML 2015-193. Accordingly, the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
II. The Board Failed to Properly Respond to a Request for Minutes. 
Public bodies must create and maintain minutes of all meetings. G.L. c. 3OA, 
§ 22(a). Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure "as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 22(f). When the purpose for which a valid executive session was held has been 
served, the minutes of the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or 
one or more of the exemptions to the Public Records Law apply to protect these records, or 
any portion thereof, from disclosure. Id. The burden of justifying continued nondisclosure 
of executive session minutes lies with the public body. Foudv v. Amherst- Pelham 
Regional School Committee, 402 Mass. 179, 184 (1988). 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body respond to a request for 
minutes, both open and executive sessions, within 10 days of the request. G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 22(c), (g)(2). Upon request by any person to inspect or copy the minutes of an 
executive session or any portion thereof, the public body must release any such minutes 
not covered by an exemption within 10 days; provided, however, that if the body has not 
performed a review of the executive session minutes recently, the public body shall 
perform the review and release the nonexempt minutes, or any portion thereof, not later 
than the public body's next meeting or 30 days, whichever first occurs. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(g)(2). 
4 
===PAGE 5===
We find that the Board's March 7 response to Mr. Doerpholz's request for minutes 
was inadequate. First, the Board did not provide any open session minutes to Mr. 
Doerpholz, as requested, although drafts existed at the time of his request. See G.L. 
c. 30A, § 22(c). The Open Meeting Law requires that minutes be created for both open 
and executive session minutes, even when the open session discussion concerns only the 
procedural steps for entering executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22. While the minutes 
may be a combined document, they should accurately distinguish between open and 
executive session so that they may be segregated if a request is made and the executive 
session minutes are withheld from disclosure. See OML 2016-26; OML 2013-155. Thus, 
the Board should have provided the open session portion of the minutes to Mr. Doerpholz 
within 10 days. Second, the Board's blanket denial of the executive session records was 
made without first conducting a review to determine whether continued nondisclosure of 
the minutes was warranted. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2); OML 2013-99. The Board did not 
discuss the request or its response during a meeting. Accordingly, the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law by failing to provide open session minutes within 10 days of a request 
and by failing to follow the procedures for responding to a request for executive session 
minutes. We order the Board to provide Mr. Doerpholz with the requested open session 
minutes within 10 days of receipt of this determination. 
Furthermore, we disagree with the Board's reasoning for continued nondisclosure 
of the requested executive session minutes. The Purpose 2 discussions expired, at the very 
latest, on May 31, 2016, when Mr. Doerpholz's contract had expired and the Board ceased 
negotiating with Mr. Doerpholz. See OML 2012-91. Therefore, the Board can no longer 
rely on the Open Meeting Law for withholding the minutes of those discussions from the 
public. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). The Board must publicly release those portions of the 
minutes, unless the attorney-client privilege or one or more of the exemptions under the 
Public Records Law apply. Id. Because the lawsuit is still pending, however, the Board 
may continue to withhold the portions of the minutes concerning its Purpose 3 discussions. 
We therefore order the Board to release its January 20, February 9, and February 25 
executive sessions minutes in accordance with the guidance above and provide a copy of 
the released minutes to Mr. Doerpholz within 10 days of receipt of this determination. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to provide sufficient detail about its executive sessions, both in the meeting 
notice and in the announcement prior to the executive session, and by failing to properly 
respond to a request for minutes. We order the Board to do the following: 
1. Immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution 
the Board that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent 
to violate the law; 
5 
===PAGE 6===
2. Publicly release the executive session minutes from the Board meetings held on 
January 20, 2016; February 9, 2016; and February 25, 2016, in accordance with 
the guidance above; and 
3. Provide Mr. Doerpholz with copies of the open and executive sessions minutes 
from those same meetings within 10 days of receipt of this determination. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Board, Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Robert Leonard, Esq. 
South Hadley Electric Light Department Board of Commissioners 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c, 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
6 