===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
May 22, 2017 
OML 2017-84 
James Kreidler 
Town Administrator 
272 Main St. 
Townsend, MA 01469 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Kreidler: 
This office received a complaint dated April 26 from Kelly M. Kelly alleging that the 
Townsend Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint alleges that during a ten-minute recess near the end of the Board's 
February 21 meeting, the Board deliberated outside of public view. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on March 17, and the Board responded by letter received by 
this office on April 13. 
Following our review, we find no evidence that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Board, the 
Board's response, and the complaint filed with our office. We also viewed a video recording 
of the Board's February 21 meeting.2 Finally, we spoke by telephone with Ms. Kelly on May 
15, with former Board Chair Carolyn Smart on May 15, and with Board member Gordon 
Clark on May 18. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body. The Board 
held a noticed meeting on February 21 that was well-attended by members of the public and 
which was at times contentious. Two of the three Board members. Chair Carolyn Smart and 
Gordon Clark, attended the meeting. At about an hour and thirty-seven minutes into the 
meeting. Chair Smart called for a ten-minute recess. During that time, she spoke with the 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017. 
2 Available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ax6gslHbyKw. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
Board's legal counsel and with Town Administrator James Kreidler3 about the meeting and 
the behavior of the crowd in attendance. She made the decision to table the remainder of the 
agenda and adjourn the meeting. Both Chair Smart and Mr. Clark deny that they spoke with 
each other during the recess regarding this decision. When the Board reconvened from the 
recess, Chair Smart announced that the remainder of the agenda topics would be tabled until a 
future meeting and she moved to adjourn. The motion passed and the meeting ended. The 
meeting minutes state that the Board voted to table the remaining agenda topics, however the 
Board has acknowledged that the minutes were incorrect and has informed our office that the 
minutes will be amended to reflect the correct accounting of the meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is 
defined, in part, as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within 
its jurisdiction." Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple 
majority of the members of the public body. Id, Thus, any discussion or decision made by a 
public body must occur during a noticed meeting. 
After interviewing former Chair Smart and Mr. Clark, we credit their statements that 
Chair Smart made the decision to table the remainder of the February 21 Board agenda after 
speaking with Town Administrator Kreidler and the Board's legal counsel, neither of whom 
are members of the Board. We find no evidence that the Board deliberated during the recess. 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. This determination 
does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. 
Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding 
this letter. 
DISCUSSION 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: Townsend Board of Selectmen 
Kelly M. Kelly 
3 For purposed of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 