===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 10, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 102 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Brian Riley, Esq. 
KP Law 
BRiley@k-plaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
 
This office received a complaint from Michael Milanoski on behalf of the Grafton and 
Upton Railroad Company on December 28, 2022,
1 alleging that the Hopedale Board of 
Selectmen (the “Board”), and specifically its chair Glenda Hazard, violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about 
December 1, and, after an extension of time granted by this office, you responded on behalf of 
the Board by letter dated December 28. We understand the complaint to allege that either 1) the 
Chair of the Board, on her own and without authority, directed Special Town Counsel regarding 
a litigation matter; or 2) that the Board deliberated outside of a noticed meeting in order to direct 
Special Town Counsel regarding the litigation matter.  
 
Following our review, we decline to review the first allegation and we find no violation 
with respect to the second allegation. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open 
Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, and a video 
recording of the Board’s November 21 meeting.
2 We also communicated with counsel for the 
Board via email.3 
 
The complaint relates to a lengthy and complex litigation matter regarding property 
located at 364 West Street in Hopedale and involving the Town, a group of residents, and the 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the Board’s November 21 meeting may be found at 
https://townhallstreams.com/stream.php?location_id=56&id=48868. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Grafton & Upton Railroad Company (the “Railroad”), of which the Complainant is the president. 
During the Board’s November 21 meeting the Chair announced that the Railroad had filed a 
motion with respect to proposed activity on the property and that the Town intended to oppose 
the motion. In the discussion that followed, the Complainant and a Board member asked who 
had made the decision to oppose the motion on behalf of the Town. Additionally, the Board 
member noted that the Board had not held a meeting to discuss this matter. On or about 
December 1, the Complainant filed the instant complaint alleging that the Chair unilaterally, and 
without authority, made the decision to oppose the motion, or, in the alternative, that a quorum of 
the Board deliberated outside of a properly noticed meeting to make the decision.  
 
To begin, we decline to review the allegation that the Chair acted unilaterally and without 
authority to direct Special Town Counsel regarding opposition to the Railroad’s motion. The 
Division of Open Government’s jurisdiction concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law. 
Whether or not the Chair had authority to direct Special Town Counsel regarding the opposition 
without first meeting with a quorum of the Board is not a matter that falls within the Open 
Meeting Law, and we therefore decline to opine on the Chair’s authority in this regard. See OML 
2013-54; OML 2022-190 n. 4; OML 2021-144 n. 3.4 
 
 Next, we consider the allegation that  a quorum of the Board deliberated outside of a 
properly noticed meeting regarding opposing the Railroad’s motion. The Open Meeting Law 
requires that all deliberations of a public body occur at a meeting for which proper notice has 
been posted and which is open to the public, unless a lawful executive session has been 
convened. G.L. c. 30A, § 20. The Law defines “deliberation,” in relevant part, as “an oral or 
written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a 
quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. For 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public 
body. Id. 
 
The complaint alleges that, if the Chair did not make the decision to oppose the 
Railroad’s motion on her own, then a quorum of the Board must have deliberated outside of a 
properly noticed meeting regarding this matter. In support of this allegation the complaint asserts 
that 1) there were no meeting notices that included this topic for either open or executive session; 
2) one Board member noted that he was not aware of any meeting regarding this issue; and 3) 
another Board member “was silent [during the announcement that the Town would oppose the 
motion] and appeared to have knowledge of this illegal action.” The Board has consistently 
asserted that the Chair did not communicate in any way with any other member of the Board 
regarding the decision to oppose the Railroad’s motion, and has explained that  
 
When [the Railroad] filed its motion . . . Attorney [David] Mackey[, acting as 
Special Counsel,]  intended to file an opposition on behalf of the Town  . . . . 
However, before doing so, Attorney Mackey contacted the Chairs of the Select 
Board and Water and Sewer Commission, advising them of the short timeframe to 
file an opposition and to ensure that neither Chair had any reservations about 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Counsel making the filing. Both Chairs indicated that the opposition would be 
consistent with the Town’s position in the litigation. 
 
We credit the Board’s account of events and find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged. See OML 2021-158; OML 2022-190.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Glenda Hazard, Chair, Hopedale Select Board (via email: ghazard@hopedale-ma.gov) 
Mina S. Makarious, Esq., Anderson & Kreiger LLP (via email: 
mmakarious@andersonkreiger.com) 
David S. Mackey, Esq., Anderson & Kreiger LLP (via email: 
dmackey@AndersonKreiger.com) 
Michael Milanosk (via email: ) 
Grafton & Upton Railroad Company c/o David Click, Esq. (via email: 
) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
