===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
October 21, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 165 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Bruce A. Assad, Esq. 
16 Bedford St., Suite 3A 
P.O. Box 1268 
Fall River, MA 02722 
 
bruceassad@bcso-ma.org 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Assad: 
 
This office received a complaint from Collin Dias on May 29, 2025, alleging that the Fall 
River School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.  The complaint was filed with the Committee on April 18, and you responded on its behalf on 
May 9.
1  In the complaint, Mr. Dias alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
with regard to an executive session held on April 17 in the following ways: (1) the chair failed to 
publicly announce whether the Committee would reconvene in open session at the conclusion of 
the executive session; (2) the chair failed to state the purpose of the executive session; (3) notice 
of the executive session was insufficiently specific; (4) the Committee deliberated and voted on 
topics that fell outside the purpose of the executive session; and (5) the Committee changed the 
location of the meeting less than 48 hours prior to the meeting.    
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law at its 
April 17 meeting when the chair failed to state the purpose of the executive session and failed to 
publicly announce whether the Committee would reconvene in open session at the conclusion of 
the executive session.  We also find that notice of the executive session was not sufficiently 
specific.  Finally, we find that the Committee violated the Law when it changed the location of 
the meeting less than 48 hours prior to the meeting without making reasonable efforts to notify 
the public.  We find that the Committee did not violate the Law in the other ways alleged.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s 
responses and the requests for further review.  We also reviewed the original and amended 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated.   
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
notices and minutes of the open session of the April 17 meeting.  We reviewed in camera 
minutes of the executive session of that meeting.  Finally, we viewed a recording of the open 
session of the April 17 meeting.2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The complainant was a member of the Committee at all 
times relevant to the complaint.  On April 15, the Committee posted notice of a special meeting 
to take place on April 17 in the Durfee High School auditorium.  Item 3 on the notice was 
“Request for Executive Session.”  Item 3.1 listed the purpose of the executive session as “M.G.L. 
Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(5): To investigate charges of criminal misconduct or to consider the 
filing of criminal complaints.”  Item 3.2 on the notice stated “Reconvene from Executive 
Session.”  On April 16, an amended notice was posted, which changed the location to the Durfee 
High School library but was identical to the original notice in every other way.   
 
The meeting took place on April 17, as scheduled.  The complainant had difficulty 
finding the meeting because he reported to the location listed in the original notice.  However, he 
found the meeting at the library before the meeting started.  The Committee began the meeting in 
open session.  Less than one minute after the meeting was called to order, a member moved to 
“enter executive session,” without any statement of the purpose of the executive session.  The 
complainant seconded the motion and then read from a prepared statement, voicing concerns 
about the adequacy of the notice for the executive session.  He then “withdr[ew] his second” and 
moved to censor [sic] Mayor Paul Coogan for “violations to the School Committee ethics policy 
by disclosing classified information placing the district at risk.”  The motion concerned the 
Mayor’s alleged disclosure to the media of a ransomware attack on the school district.   
 
During the Committee’s discussion of the complainant’s motion to censure Mayor 
Coogan, Superintendent of Schools Tracy Curley stated that she spoke to all members of the 
Committee the day before the meeting to confirm that they understood that the purpose of the 
executive session was to discuss criminal misconduct associated with a ransomware attack.  
Following discussion, the motion to censor [sic] Mayor Coogan was put to a vote.  It did not 
pass.  The Committee returned to the motion to enter executive session.  Still no purpose was 
announced.  Following further discussion, the Committee voted to enter executive session.  Prior 
to entering executive session, Mayor Coogan, the chair of the Committee, did not announce 
whether the Committee would return to open session at the conclusion of the executive session. 
 
The minutes of the April 17 executive session have not yet been released to the public 
and were reviewed in camera; therefore, we only summarize their content here.  During the April 
17 executive session, the Committee discussed a cyber security incident, including specifics of 
the incident itself, the School District’s response to it, and issues of insurance coverage. 
 
  
 
2 We accessed the recording at https://youtu.be/NN9aEERvJRk?feature=shared.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when the chair failed to publicly 
announce whether the Committee would reconvene in open session at the 
conclusion of the executive session. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a 
public body be conducted in an open session, unless an executive session is convened.  G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten 
purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open 
session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the 
vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has 
publicly announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive 
session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b).  The Committee has acknowledged that no announcement 
was made as to whether it would return to open session but maintains that none was required 
because the notice indicated that the Committee would return to open session following the 
executive session.  We disagree.  The Law is clear that the chair must publicly announce during 
the open session whether the public body will reconvene in open session.  By failing to do so at 
the April 17 meeting, the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
II. Notice of the executive session was not sufficiently specific. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider 
a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic 
and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2024-228; 
OML 2019-134; OML 2015-35.3  Notice of an executive session must include all subjects that 
may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.  
See OML 2019-114 (“Including all information that may be revealed without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called is imperative because this is the only 
information about the executive session available to the public.”); OML 2017-198.  See also 
Dist. Attorney for Northern Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] 
precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary under the open 
meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public that the school committee 
would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for 
doing so was proper or improper”). 
 
Notice of the April 17 meeting described the subject of the executive session as follows: 
“M.G.L. Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(5): To investigate charges of criminal misconduct or to 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
consider the filing of criminal complaints.”  This topic correctly quotes the statutory language of 
executive session Purpose 5.  It also references criminal misconduct, which describes the general 
subject to be discussed (a ransomware attack).  However, this topic is not sufficiently specific, as 
a wide range of activity could fall into the category of “criminal misconduct” warranting 
consideration of “criminal complaints.”  The topic should have included a reference to the 
ransomware attack or at least a cybersecurity incident.  The media had already reported on the 
ransomware demand prior to posting of the notice of the April 17 meeting.  During the open 
session on April 17, members of the Committee referred to the ransomware attack.  Because 
some sort of ransomware attack was already public knowledge, inclusion in the notice of more 
specific language referencing a cybersecurity incident or ransomware attack would not have 
compromised the purpose for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(b)(3).  We find that by failing to include in the notice a description of the subject to be 
discussed in executive session, the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
III. The Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when the chair failed to state the 
purpose of the executive session. 
 
Before a public body enters executive session, the chair must “state the purpose for the 
executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose 
for which the executive session was called.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3).  The Committee twice 
considered a motion to enter executive session at the April 17 meeting.  On neither occasion did 
the Chair, or any member, state the purpose for the executive session.  As noted above, the 
meeting notice included a statutory reference, listing the purpose of the executive session as 
“M.G.L. Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(5): To investigate charges of criminal misconduct or to 
consider the filing of criminal complaints.”  Moreover, as the Committee notes in its response, 
the subject of a cybersecurity incident or ransomware attack was discussed during the open 
session prior to the vote to enter executive session.  These intimations notwithstanding, no 
statement of executive session purpose was made in the context of the motion itself.  Because the 
chair failed to state the purpose of the executive session, the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law. 
 
IV. Matters discussed in the April 17 executive session fell within the purpose for 
which the executive session was called. 
 
The ten executive session purposes—as exceptions to the general rule that meetings of a 
public
 body shall be open to the public—are narrowly construed.  See McRea v. Flaherty, 71 
Mass. App. Ct. 637, 641 (2008); see also OML 2025-122; OML 2024-128; OML 2020-76.  The 
Committee entered executive session on April 17 to investigate charges of criminal misconduct 
or to consider the filing of criminal complaints.  Having reviewed the executive session minutes 
in camera, we are satisfied that the Committee’s discussions and votes fell within the stated 
purpose of the April 17 executive session.  To the extent that the Committee discussed possible 
responses to the ransomware attack and insurance coverage, those discussions flowed from the 
discussion of the attack itself and were sufficiently connected to the investigation of criminal 
misconduct or the consideration of criminal complaints. 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
V. The Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when the Committee changed the 
location of the meeting less than 48 hours prior to the meeting.    
 
Meeting notices must include, among other things, the date, time, and place of the 
mee
ting.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  A public body is permitted to change a meeting location, even 
less than 48 hours prior to a meeting, as long as it makes reasonable efforts to notify the public of 
the new meeting location.  See OML 2025-91 (finding no violation where Committee posted 
change of meeting location on Town website and at original location and posted police officer at 
original location to redirect public to new location); OML 2020-95 (finding no violation where 
public body posted conspicuous and timely signage notifying public of new meeting location); 
OML 2017-152 (finding no violation where public body posted revised notice on morning of 
meeting and placed large sign at original meeting location, redirecting public to new location). 
 
Neith
er the complainant nor the Committee has provided details regarding the change in 
location.  The complainant has alleged that he had difficulty locating the meeting but does not 
explain how he eventually found the meeting.  For its part, the Committee has not denied the 
change in location and provides no explanation of what it did to redirect the public (or members, 
for that matter) to the correct location.  Because we have been presented with no information 
suggesting that the Committee made a reasonable effort to notify the public of the new meeting 
location, we find that it violated the Open Meeting Law when it changed the location of the 
meeting less than 48 hours prior to the meeting. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it entered executive session without stating the purpose of the executive session or whether 
it would reconvene in open session at the conclusion of the executive session.  We also find that 
notice of the executive session was not sufficiently specific.  Finally, we find that the Committee 
violated the Law when it changed the location of the meeting less than 48 hours prior to the 
meeting without making reasonable efforts to notify the public.  We order the Committee’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future 
violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
     
 
       
       Matthew Lindberg 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 

===PAGE 6===
6 
 
 
cc: Collin Dias – By email only:   
Fall River School Committee – By email only: schoolcommittee@fallriverschools.org  
Fall Riv
er City Clerk – By email only: city_clerk@fallriverma.gov 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
 
