===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
July 26, 2018 
OML 2018-113 
Russell L. Sears III, Chairman 
Cummington Board of Selectmen 
33 Main Street 
Cummington, MA 01026 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chairman Sears: 
This office received a complaint from Bernard Forgea, dated June 28, alleging that the 
Cummington Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 12, and the Board 
responded by letter dated March 23. In his complaint, Chief Forgea alleges that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) deliberating outside of a properly noticed meeting, (ii) 
conducting a meeting that was not open to the public, and (iii) failing to create accurate meeting 
minutes. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office.2 We reviewed the minutes of the Board's March 
8 meeting. We also communicated with the complainant's legal counsel by telephone on July 9 
and by e-mail on July 10. Finally, we spoke by telephone with Board member Monica 
Vandoloski on July 9 and 10 and with Board member Bill Adams on July 9. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body; therefore, a 
quorum consists of two members. At all times relevant to this complaint, Mr. Forgea was the 
Cummington Fire Chief. Board members Bill Adams and Monica Vandoloski stated to our 
office that, over the past several years, they received several comments from members of the 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018. 
2 Although the request for further review did not arrive at our office until June 28, well past the June 6 deadline, the 
complainant told our office that his legal counsel sent the request to our office promptly after receiving the Board's 
response. We credit this statement, and consider this to be sufficiently good cause for delay. See 940 CMR 
29.05(7). 
o 
===PAGE 2===
i 
public expressing concern over Chief Forgea's age and his status as a "Permanent Appointment 
for Life." On March 5, the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on March 8. The notice 
listed, among other topics. Chief Forgea's name without any further information. The Board 
invited Chief Forgea to attend this meeting. 
The Board held the March 8 meeting as planned. Two Board members—Mr. Adams and 
Ms. Vandoloski—were present, with Ms. Vandoloski tasked with taking the meeting minutes. 
During the meeting, Mr. Adams questioned whether it might be appropriate to discuss the matter 
involving Chief Forgea in executive session. At this time, though no motion to go into executive 
session was made nor any vote taken, the two members of the public who were present left the 
meeting room. Selectman Adams asked the Chief to remain in the room during whatever 
executive session may follow. The discussion then turned to Chief Forgea's plans for his future 
and the future of the fire department. A disagreement ensued between Chief Forgea and Mr. 
Adams, resulting in Chief Forgea departing the meeting. The Board the discussed the remaining 
items on the meeting agenda. Minutes of March 8 meeting were approved on April 5. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Board Did Not Deliberate Outside of a Properly Noticed Meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Commission 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass, 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. BOA, § 18. A 
"deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of other 
procedural meeting (sic) or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a 
meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id For the purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority of the members of the public body. Id, 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Board deliberated in advance of the March 8 meeting 
to discuss concerns about Chief Forgea's age and alleged unsuitability for the position of fire 
chief. The Board denies that any such discussions occurred prior to the March 8 meeting. As the 
complainant has provided no evidence to suggest improper deliberation, we credit the Board's 
denial. See OML 2016-141 (absent evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body's version 
of events).3 Accordingly, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law with 
respect to this portion of the complaint. 
2. The Board Created Minutes of its March 8 Meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
The complaint alleges that, when the discussion of Chief Forgea's age began, Ms. 
Vandoloski inquired whether she should continue to take minutes. Though it is unclear how Mr. 
Adams responded to this inquiiy, Ms. Vandoloski stated to our office that she continued to take 
minutes. The Board subsequently approved the minutes of the March 8 meeting on April 5, and 
these minutes include a summary of the discussion at issue between Mr. Adams and Chief 
Forgea. Accordingly, we do not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law with respect to this 
allegation. 
3. The Board's March 8 Meeting was Sufficiently Open to the Public. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that "all meetings of a public body shall be open to the 
public." G.L. c. 30A §20(a). Access must include the opportunity to be physically present as 
well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 
2017-40. 
The complaint alleges that, by implying that it would be entering executive session, the 
Board constructively blocked the public from being present during an open session. See OML 
2016-140 (finding that Board misled public to reasonably assume meeting had concluded, thus 
rendering discussion that followed not open to public). Indeed, Mr. Adams mentioned the 
possibility of entering executive session, at which time the two members of the public who had 
been in attendance at the meeting left the room. However, the Board did not request that any 
member of the public leave the room, nor did any member of the Board make a motion to enter 
executive session. On these facts, we conclude that the Board's actions were not sufficient to 
lead a member of the public to reasonably assume that the open session had concluded, and 
accordingly decline to find a violation. 
Despite the foregoing, we take this opportunity to express our concern with some of the 
Board's procedures, and to offer guidance for future meetings. We remind the Board that, as a 
three-member body, a quorum consists of any two of its members. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-b, 
21. Therefore, additional caution is advised to ensure that no communication occurs between a 
quorum of the Board on any matter within the Board's jurisdiction outside of a properly noticed 
meeting. See id. In addition, should the Board deem it necessary to enter executive session, a 
majority of members must vote to go into executive session by roll call, and the chair must 
clearly state the purpose of the executive session and announce whether the Board will 
reconvene after the executive session concludes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). Further, other than 
during a properly-convened executive session, it is not appropriate for a quorum of the Board to 
seek to have a private conversation with an individual about a topic within the Board's 
jurisdiction, out of view of the public. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). 
3 
===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. We now 
consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does 
not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel 
free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Bernard Forgea 
Jack Collins, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 