===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 24, 2013 
OML 2013 - 139 
Carrie Flood, Secretary 
Minuteman Regional Vocational Technical School Committee 
758 Marrett Road 
Lexington, MA 02421 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Flood: 
This office received a complaint from David Manjarrez, dated March 15, 2013, alleging 
that the Minuteman Regional Vocational Technical School District Committee (the 
"Committee") and certain of its specific members violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3 OA, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about February 15, 
20131 and the Committee responded to the original complaint by letter dated March 7, 2013." In 
his complaint, Mr. Manjarrez alleges that the executive session topic listed on the notice for the 
Committee's February 12, 2013 meeting, and Chair Alice DeLuca's announcement of the 
purpose for the executive session, were not sufficiently specific because they did not include the 
name of the specific nonunion personnel whose contract was being discussed. 
We reviewed the February 15, 2012 complaint; your March 7, 2013 response, on behalf 
of the Committee; and the March 15, 2013 complaint filed with our office, requesting further 
review. In addition, we reviewed the notice and open and executive session minutes from the 
February 12, 2013 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to state an executive session topic with sufficient specificity in its meeting notice and 
1 In his letter, Mr. Manjarrez also alleges that the Building Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. The 
Building Committee did not provide a response to our office, but we note that they were not required to respond 
under the Open Meeting Law because Mr. Manjarrez's complaint was not filed on the requisite Open Meeting Law 
complaint form. See 940 CMR 29.05(1) ("All complaints shall be in writing, using the form approved by the 
Attorney General and available on the Attorney General's website.") Accordingly, we decline to review the 
allegations against the Building Committee. See OML Declination 6-10-13. 
2 Although Mr. Manjarrez did not file his complaint on the appropriate form, the Committee treated it as a complaint 
and responded pursuant to the Open Meeting Law. We therefore will review the complaint against the Committee. 
See OML 2013-15. 
===PAGE 2===
prior to convening in executive session; however, the Committee acknowledged its error and 
took appropriate remedial action following the filing of this complaint. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. On February 
12, 2013, the Committee convened in open session. The meeting notice, posted on February 7, 
2013, included among its topics the following: "10. Possible Executive Session a. Pursuant to 
Purpose 2, to discuss strategy related to contract negotiations with non-union personnel." Prior 
to convening in executive session, the Committee approved by roll call vote a motion "[t]o enter 
into Executive Session, pursuant to Purpose 2, to discuss strategy related to contract negotiations 
with non-union personnel, with Ms. Rozan remaining, and not to return to Open Session." 
Upon the filing of this complaint, the Committee convened a properly posted meeting on 
March 5, 2013 to re-present and reconsider the matters presented and considered during the 
February 12, 2013 meeting. The meeting notice, posted on February 26, 2013, listed among its 
topics the following; "1. Call to Order; Open Session Clarification of the purpose of the 
executive session of the School Committee held on February 12, 2013 as an executive session 
pursuant to Purpose 2 (M.G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2)) to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
negotiations, including contract negotiations, with certain nonunion personnel, namely. Dr. 
Edward Bouquillon, the District Superintendent" and "2. Possible Executive Session a. 
Pursuant to Purpose 2 (M.G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2)) to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
negotiations, including contract negotiations, with certain nonunion personnel, namely. Dr. 
Edward Bouquillon, the District Superintendent^]" During the open session. Chair DeLuca 
announced that because the Committee's notice for the February 12, 2013 meeting failed to 
include the name of the specific nonunion personnel being discussed, the Committee reconvened 
to reconsider the topic, as well as review and discuss this Open Meeting Law complaint in "3 ... executive session under Purpose 1. The Committee then properly convened in executive session 
and engaged in a new discussion regarding the negotiation of Dr. Bouquillon's contract.4 
DISCUSSION 
As the Committee acknowledged, it should have stated the name of the nonunion 
personnel with which it was negotiating, both on the meeting notice and prior to convening the 
executive session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); OML 2013-97.3 This level of detail is 
necessary to put any interested member of the public on notice that the Committee planned to 
discuss strategy with respect to a specific nonunion employee - Dr. Bouquillon - in executive 
session. See OML 2013-28; OML 2011-54. Likewise, this detail about the purpose for the 
executive session should have been included in Chair DeLuca's announcement in open session. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3). 
3 During the March 5,2013 meeting, Chair DeLuca requested that her fellow members assist her in complying with 
the Open Meeting Law by notifying her of any perceived issues when they first receive copies of meeting notices. 
We agree with the Chair that the assistance of a public body's members in this effort is desirable. 
4 We note that Mr. Manjarrez attempted to withdraw his complaint during this meeting, but the Committee felt it had 
an obligation to respond nonetheless. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
While we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law, it took appropriate 
remedial action when it reconsidered and took independent action on the topic at a properly 
posted meeting on March 5, 2013. See Pearson v. Board of Selectmen of Longmeadow, 49 
Mass.App.Ct. 119, 125 (2000), citing Tolar v. School Bd. of Liberty County, 398 So.2d 427, 429 
(Fla. 1981) (In order to cure a violation, the public body must take an independent, deliberative 
action, and not merely engage in a ceremonial acceptance or perfunctory ratification of a secret 
decision). We therefore order no additional relief. Where, as occurred here, a public body 
acknowledges a violation in response to a complaint filed with that body, we strongly encourage 
complainants to reconsider whether further review by this office remains necessary. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to list an executive session topic with sufficient specificity in its meeting notice and 
prior to convening in executive session; however the Committee took appropriate remedial 
action following the filing of this complaint. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: David Manjarrez 
Nancy Campany, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3 