===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 30, 2013 
OML 2013 - 143 
Paula Fitzsimmons 
Chair 
Masconomet Regional School Committee 
20 Endicott Road 
Topsfield, MA 01983 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Fitzsimmons: 
This office received a complaint filed by Ms. Kim Sherwood (the complainant), dated 
August 14, 2013, alleging the Masconomet Regional School Committee (the Committee) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that 
the Committee voted on an "item [which] was not listed on the June 26, 2013 agenda." The 
complaint was filed with the Committee on July 12, 2013. The Committee responded by letter 
dated August 20, 2013. 
We reviewed the July 12, 2013 complaint filed with the Committee; a request to this 
office for further review dated August 14, 2013; and the Committee's responses dated August 
20, 2013 and September 5, 2013. In addition, we conducted telephone conversations in 
September 2013 with the complainant and the designated agent of the Committee, Darrell J. 
Lockwood, Ed. D., Superintendent of Schools, Masconomet Regional School District. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
by providing insufficient detail in its timely posted notice because a reasonable member of the 
public would have understood the item listed in the meeting notice to include the discussion that 
occurred. We do, however, find that the Committee violated the Law by failing to respond 
within fourteen business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the materials listed above, we find the following facts. At its 
June 12, 2013 meeting, the Committee considered a properly noticed agenda item to recertify the 
Fiscal Year 2013 budget. The origin of this item lies in the nature of the funding of Masconomet 
1 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
Regional School District (the District). The sources of funding for the District include the three 
towns which compose the District as well as the Commonwealth. The Committee normally 
creates and certifies its budget in the fall for the approval of the towns. This Committee bases its 
budget on projections of state funding provided by the Commonwealth and presents the towns 
with requests to provide the remainder of the required money. The towns then individually 
approve the budget. 
The state's projection of the amount of state funding can create deficits or surpluses at the 
end of the fiscal year due to a variety of factors. When either a surplus or a deficit occurs, in 
addition to shifting funds among its various accounts, the Committee may recertify its budget in 
order to request more funds of the towns or return monies no longer required. For this reason, 
the Committee discussed recertifying the budget at the June 12, 2013 meeting but the discussion 
proved unfruitful in the absence of accurate data. The Committee continued that discussion to 
the June 26, 2013 meeting at issue in this complaint to allow the Committee to review the 
District's Chief Financial Officer's (CFO) forthcoming report of the District's anticipated 
financial status at the end of the fiscal year. This report would determine the existence and 
amount of a surplus. 
On June 21, 2013, the School Committee timely posted notice of the June 26, 2013 
meeting. That agenda listed the subtopic "3. End of Year Financials" under the heading topic 
"K. Financial Reports" and contained no further description. Subsequently on the same day, the 
District distributed copies of the report on the District's finances at the end of the fiscal year to 
Committee members. The reports indicated the District would finish the fiscal year with a 
surplus of $112, 891. 
During the June 26, 2013 meeting, under the above mentioned subtopic, the CFO 
presented that the District faced a budget surplus and outlined several actions the District could 
take with the extra funds. The School Committee debated the options regarding the budgetary 
surplus before moving to apply the monies to the Other Post-Employment Benefits (OPEB) 
account. The motion passed. 
The complainant filed a complaint with the Committee on July 12, 2013. The 
Committee did not respond, and the complainant sought further review of the matter by filing a 
copy of the original complaint, dated August 14, 2013, with our office. On August 19, 2013, we 
sent a letter to the Committee reminding it of its obligation to respond to the complaint, noting 
that if we did not receive a response by September 6, 2013, we would review the complaint 
based on the information that was before us. The Committee's response to our letter was timely. 
DISCUSSION 
The complainant alleges that the Committee failed to provide sufficient detail in the 
notice posted in advance of its June 26, 2013 meeting. Specifically, she alleges that the notice 
did not indicate that the subtopic "End of Year Financials" would include a discussion of a 
budgetary surplus and the shifting of funds into the District's OPEB account. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post a meeting notice 48 hours in 
advance of a meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The Open Meeting Law does not require that 
the chair of a public body guess what will occur during a meeting. See OML 2013-22; OML 
2011-36.' Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity 
to reasonably advise the public of issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(1 )(b). 
We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the 
public could read the topic and understand what the nature of the public body's discussion will 
be. See OML 2013-55, OML 2011-7. 
Here, the topic "End of Year Financials" under the heading "Financial Reports" indicated 
the Committee would review a report of the end of year financial situation of the District. A 
financial report is "a balance sheet, income statement, or annual report that summarizes an 
individual's or organization's financial condition on a specified date or for a specified period by 
reporting assets and liabilities." BLACK'S LAW DICTIONARY (9th ed. 2009) (referencing 
definition of "financial statement" in lieu of "financial report"). The Committee's listing of 
"End of Year Financials" under the topic of "Financial Reports" was sufficient to put a 
reasonable member of the public on notice that the Committee would be discussing an 
accounting of the District's finances at the end of its fiscal year and the ramifications of the data 
therein contained, which could include a budgetary surplus. See OML 2012-75 (no violation to 
omit reasonably inferable information from notice); OML 2011-15 (same). We therefore find 
the Committee's notice was sufficiently specific regarding the nature of the Committee's 
anticipated deliberation for the June 26, 2013 meeting. Although we find no violation, we note 
that the substance of the financial reports was known to the Committee shortly after the notice 
was posted. In such circumstances, where additional detail may be helpful to the public, we 
encourage the Committee to update its meeting notices whenever practically possible. 
The Committee did violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to respond to the complaint 
in a timely manner. The Committee took more than a month to respond to the complaint. We 
take this opportunity to remind the Committee that unless our office grants an extension, within 
14 business days after receiving a complaint the public body shall review the complaint's 
allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the 
complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(B); 940 CMR 
29.05(5). 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by providing 
insufficient detail in its notice of the June 26, 2013 meeting because a reasonable member of the 
public would have understood the item listed in the meeting notice to include the discussion that 
occurred. We do, however, find that it violated the Law by failing to respond to an Open 
Meeting Law complaint within fourteen business days. We order the Committee's immediate 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
O J 
===PAGE 4===
and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that future similar violations 
may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
cc: Kim Sherwood 
Darrell Lockwood, Ed.D., Superintendent of Schools, Masconomet Regional School 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney Cieneral 
Division of Open Government 
District 
4 