===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
May 14, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 56 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Michele E. Randazzo, Esq. 
KP Law 
 
mrandazzo@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Randazzo:  
 
 On September 16, 2025, this office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty, alleging that 
the Harwich Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 30 and you responded on its behalf 
on September 16.
1  The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by (1) 
posting meeting notices that insufficiently described executive session topics;2 (2) posting 
meeting notices that failed to list an open session prior to an executive session; and (3) failing to 
include the time that notices were posted. 
 
 We appreciate the parties’ patience while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it posted meeting notices 
that insufficiently described executive session topics and when it posted notices that suggested 
that the Board would not meet in open session prior to convening in executive session.  We find 
that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, and the 
request for further review.  We also viewed the town calendar of public body meetings.
3  We 
reviewed the notices of meetings held on August 4, August 18 and August 25 and viewed 
 
1 Unless otherwise stated, all dates are in 2025. 
2 The complaint breaks this insufficiency down into several distinct allegations: (1) incorrect citation and 
misapplication of executive session purposes; (2) insufficient specificity in describing executive session topics; and 
(3) potential overlap, duplication, and improper lumping of executive session purposes and topics.  Because these 
allegations are interrelated, we treat them as one. 
3 We accessed the calendar at https://harwichma.portal.civicclerk.com/. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
recordings of the open sessions held on those dates.4   Finally, we reviewed in camera the 
minutes of executive sessions held on August 4, August 18 and August 25. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board held meetings on August 4, August 18, and 
August 25.  The notice for each of these meetings included, among others, executive session 
topics for discussions to be held under Purposes 2 and 3.5  Although very similar, the notices of 
these executive sessions were not identical.  As to Purposes 2 and 3, the notices included the 
following language: 
 
August 4: 
 
A. Pursuant to MGL c.30A, §21 (a)(3) to discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining for all town unions and non-union personnel and or contract negotiations 
with non-union personnel and the Chair has determined that open session would have 
a detrimental effect on the town’s bargaining position  
 
B. Pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(2) to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
negotiations with non-union personnel and to conduct contract negotiations with non-
union personnel: Acting Town Administrator; Votes may be taken  
 
August 18: 
 
A. Pursuant to MGL c.30A, §21 (a)(3) to discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining for all town unions and non-union personnel and or contract negotiations 
with non-union personnel and the Chair has determined that open session would have 
a detrimental effect on the town’s bargaining position  
 
B. Pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(2) to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
negotiations with non-union personnel and to conduct contract negotiations with non-
union personnel: previous Interim Acting Town Administrator  
 
August 25: 
 
A. Pursuant to MGL c.30A, §21 (a)(3) to discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining for all town unions and non-union personnel and or contract negotiations 
 
4 We accessed the recordings at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=58YpGYPMhpo (August 4), 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ap0zr4EHH5I (August 18), and 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HOroFQ1G0pU (August 25).   
5 As explained in further detail below, “Purpose 2” allows a public body to convene in executive session to “conduct 
strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2).  “Purpose 3” allows a public 
body to convene in executive session “to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining .  . . if an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining . . . position of the public body and the chair so declares.”  
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3).  
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
with non-union personnel and the Chair has determined that open session would have 
a detrimental effect on the town’s bargaining position  
 
B. Pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(2) to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
negotiations with non-union personnel and to conduct contract negotiations with non-
union personnel: previous Interim Acting Town Administrator  
 
. . . 
  
D. Pursuant to MGL c. 30A, §21(a)(3) To discuss strategy with respect to litigation in 
the Port Restaurant v. Town of Harwich matters as the Chair has declared that an 
open session may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the Town  
 
The header of the notice of the August 4 meeting read: 
 
SELECT BOARD MEETING AGENDA 
Donn B. Griffin Room, Town Hall 
732 Main Street, Harwich, MA 
Executive Session 5:30 P.M. 
Regular Meeting (no earlier than) 6:00 P.M. 
Monday, August 4, 2025 
 
 The topics were (in order): Call to Order; Executive Session; and Pledge of Allegiance, 
followed by multiple open session topics.  The notice of the August 18 meeting shared this 
format, with an executive session at 5:00 p.m. and a “Regular Meeting (no earlier than) 6:00 
p.m.”  The notice of the August 25 meeting also was formatted the same as that of the August 4 
meeting, with an executive session at 5:15 p.m. and a “Regular Meeting (no earlier than) 6:00 
p.m.”   
 
Each of the three meetings took place on a Monday.  The notices state on their face the 
date but not the time of posting.  The Town’s online calendar shows that each notice was posted 
on the afternoon of the Thursday preceding the Monday meeting.  The meetings went forward as 
scheduled.  The Board voted at each of the meetings to enter executive session, with the motion 
to enter executive session tracking the language of the notice.
6   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it posted meeting notices that 
insufficiently described executive session topics. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).    All meetings of a public body must be open to the 
 
6 With one exception, the announcements mirrored the language of the notices verbatim.  During the announcement 
on August 25, the specific statutory subsection was not referenced as to the first executive session purpose. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
public unless the body has a purpose to enter executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  Public 
bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open 
Meeting Law.  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a).  One permissible purpose for convening in executive session 
is to “conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to 
conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”).  Another permissible purpose is to “discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).       
 
The Law requires a public body to post notice of a meeting at least 48 hours in advance, 
including a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Public bodies are required to list topics on a notice with 
“sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(1)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when 
a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2024-180; OML 2019-134; OML 2015- 35.7  Executive 
session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an announcement during open 
session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive 
session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for N. Dist. v. School 
Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“A precise statement of the reason for 
convening in executive session is necessary . . . because that is the only notification given the 
public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would 
know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper.”).  When convening in executive session 
pursuant to Purpose 3 to discuss collective bargaining, a public body must identify in the notice 
and in the announcement made at the meeting the collective bargaining unit with whom it will be 
negotiating, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy.  See OML 2024-
127; OML 2023-207; OML 2016-43. 
 
The complainant alleges that the Board improperly cited and applied executive session 
purposes relative to the meetings of August 4, August 18, and August 25.  He points out that in 
its meeting notices, the Board misquoted Purpose 3 by including language regarding nonunion 
personnel, whereas negotiations with nonunion personnel and the preparation for same fall 
exclusively under Purpose 2.  The Board characterizes the mistake as a scrivener’s error.     
 
Although negotiations with nonunion personnel may not be conducted under Purpose 3, 
an incorrect statutory reference does not in and of itself constitute a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law.  Where a public body has erroneously cited the wrong statutory purpose when 
entering executive session, we have found no violation of the Open Meeting Law if there 
otherwise was an adequately detailed description of the topic to be discussed such that a member 
of the public could understand the nature of the topic and conclude that the topic was appropriate 
for discussion in executive session.  See OML 2024-34; OML 2023-39.  Indeed, a public body is 
not required to provide the statutory citation to the executive session purpose on which it relies, 
 
7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
as long as it otherwise provides a sufficient description of the anticipated topic.  See OML 2025-
191; OML 2022-115.  It is the sufficiency of the description that we turn to next. 
 
Here, the Board notified the public that it would “discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining for all town unions and non-union personnel.”  This overinclusive language 
suggested that the Board planned to discuss negotiation strategy as to all the town’s employees, 
both union and nonunion.  If the Board did not plan to discuss negotiation strategy as to all 
personnel, then identifying them all in the notice is no better than identifying none at all.   
 
In its response, the Board explains that it did anticipate a discussion about all unions, as 
negotiations were ongoing with all unions at the time.  Our in camera review of the minutes of 
the executive sessions held on August 4, August 18, and August 25, casts doubt on the Board’s 
explanation.  Moreover, the notices of these and other meetings show that the Board frequently 
meets in executive session to discuss strategy with respect to negotiations with “all town unions 
and non-union personnel.”  This appears to be boiler plate language that the Board falls back on 
when anticipating a discussion in preparation for negotiations.  In any event, even if the Board 
anticipated a discussion as to all unions, the Board has not maintained that it was engaged in 
negotiations with all non-union personnel in August 2025.  Because the Board referenced 
negotiations with “all town unions and non-union personnel” when it anticipated that it would 
discuss only some, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.8   
   
II. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it posted notices that suggested 
that no open session would precede an executive session. 
 
A public body may enter executive session for one of the ten purposes set out in the Open 
Meeting Law only if it follows certain procedures.  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b).  Among these is the 
requirement that the public body first convene in open session.  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(1).  The 
public has a right to witness the procedural steps to learn the purpose for the executive session 
and observe the body's vote to convene in executive session.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(b) (1)-(3); 
OML 2026-10; OML 2023-236; OML 2013-195.  Moreover, the vote could fail, in which case 
the body may choose to discuss the matter in open session.  See, e.g., OML 2013-856 (Board, 
realizing that it had posted notice for an improper executive session topic, chose to hold the 
meeting in open session).  The public has the right to attend the open session discussion under 
such circumstances.  See OML 2025-201; OML 2020-104; OML 2013-856.  
 
 When the only business of the open session is the procedure for entering executive 
session, we have explained that public bodies must list “Open Session” on the meeting notice. 
See OML 2026-10; OML 2020-47; OML 2012-68.  Without such notice, members of the public 
are essentially denied the opportunity to attend and learn the reasons for the executive session. 
See OML 2026-10; OML 2023-68; OML 2013-195.  Where additional open session topics are 
included in a meeting notice, we generally have not required that a public body list “Open 
Session” as a distinct topic. See OML 2025-157; OML 2023-140; OML 2015-105. 
 
8 The complaint also alleges that the notices duplicate executive session purposes and topics.   The Open Meeting 
Law does not explicitly prohibit the overlap of topics in a notice.  In any event, as we have found the notices  
insufficiently specific for the reasons stated, we decline to review the allegation that redundancy contributed to the 
insufficiency.   
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
Here, the Board met in open session prior to convening in executive session on the three 
dates that are the subject of the complaint.  Additionally, the notices included open session topics 
other than a vote to enter executive session.  Absent other factors, the presence of open session 
topics on the notice might have eliminated the need to list “Open Session” as a distinct topic.  
However, the subject notices each listed the executive session as occurring 30 to 60 minutes 
prior to the “regular” (open) session.  As such, the notices gave the impression that there was no 
open session prior to the executive session during which the public could witness the procedure 
to enter executive session.  The language of the notice risked discouraging public attendance.  
See OML 2025-71 (language on notice stating that the “Zoom link provided is for the open 
session of the Council meeting beginning at or about 7PM upon the conclusion of the executive 
session of Council” raised concern that Council either did not convene in open session first or 
that even if it did, the notice deterred public attendance); OML 2015-157 (finding that notice did 
not comply with the Open Meeting Law where it failed to “clearly indicate when the public 
portion of the meeting would occur;” executive sessions were listed at 6:00 p.m. and 6:40 p.m., a 
call to order was listed at 6:15 p.m., and the notice also stated that the meeting would begin at 
7:00 p.m.); OML Declination 6-2-14 (Lenox Town Manager Search Committee) (“When 
noticing a meeting that includes an executive session, a public body must make clear in the 
notice that the meeting will first convene in open session.”).   
 
The Board notes that we sometimes have found that listing “call to order” on a notice 
prior to the executive session provided sufficient notice to the public that an executive session 
would be preceded by an open session.  See OML 2026-45; OML 2018-38; OML 2016-127.      
Here, however, the notice explicitly listed a start time of the executive session prior to the 
“regular” meeting.  Because a reasonable reading of the notice suggested that the Board would 
convene in executive session prior to meeting in open session on the three dates referenced in the 
complaint, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
To the extent that the complainant asks that we find an intentional violation and issue a 
fine to the Board, we decline to do so.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an 
“act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open 
Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 29.02.  An intentional violation may be found where the public body 
acted with deliberate ignorance of the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that 
certain conduct violates the Open Meeting Law.  Id.  There is nothing within the materials before 
us that would suggest that the Board acted with deliberate ignorance of the law’s requirements or 
with intent to violate the law.  In a prior determination, issued on February 16, 2022, we found 
that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it failed to first convene in open session 
prior to entering executive session.  See OML 2022-26.  Although closely related to the violation 
we find here, the finding in OML 2022-26 concerned a different provision of the Open Meeting 
Law.  Therefore, we find that the violation was not intentional. 
 
III. The date and time of posting the subject meeting notices were recorded in 
accordance with the Open Meeting Law. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that as to every meeting notice, the date and time of its 
posting must be “conspicuously recorded thereon or therewith.”  940 CMR 29.03(d).  The date 
and time of posting may be listed either on the meeting notice itself or on the website next to the 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
link to the meeting notice.  See OML 2023-63; OML 2019- 102; OML 2018-53.  Each of the 
notices that are the subject of the complaint lists the date, but not the time, of posting.  However, 
the Town’s online calendar, through which the notices are accessed, includes both the date and 
time of posting.  Therefore, we find no violation as to this allegation.   
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it posted notices of its meetings of August 4, August 18, and August 25 that insufficiently 
described executive session topics, and which suggested that the Board would not meet in open 
session prior to convening in executive session.  We order immediate and future compliance with 
the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar violations in the future may be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the Law.  940 CMR 29.02. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
  
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Ronald Beaty (via email: ) 
 Emily Mitchell, Harwich Town Clerk (via email: emily.mitchell@harwich-ma.gov) 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
