===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
March 30, 2026 
 
OML 2026 – 35  
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Janelle M. Austin, Esq. 
KP Law 
 
jaustin@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Austin: 
 
On December 2, 2025, this office received a complaint from Elizabeth Smith, alleging 
that the Swampscott Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 26, and you responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated September 26.2  In her complaint, Ms. Smith alleges that the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law (1) by failing to respond to a request for executive session 
minutes; and (2) by failing to announce at open meetings the results of its review of executive 
session minutes. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to announce in open session the results of its review of executive session minutes.  We decline to 
review the remaining allegation.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the Board’s response, and the request for further review filed with our office.  We 
also reviewed minutes of the meetings the Board held on February 5, April 21, July 8, and 
October 8. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to announce the results of 
its reviews of executive session minutes. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
 
1 Hereinafter, all dates refer to 2025 unless otherwise specified. 
2 Our office granted an extension of time to September 29 to respond to the complaint. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The law requires that a public body create and maintain 
accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The 
minutes of any executive session may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety 
as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.  
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f).  At reasonable intervals, a public body or its chair or designee must review 
the minutes of executive sessions to determine if continued nondisclosure of those minutes is 
warranted.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1).  At the meeting following each periodic review, the public 
body must announce which executive session minutes will be released and which will continue 
to be withheld, and such announcement must be included in the minutes.  Id.   
 
The complainant alleges that the Board has not announced in open session the results of 
its review of executive session minutes.  In response, the Board “acknowledges and recognizes” 
its obligation to periodically review executive session minutes and to announce the result of the 
review at its next meeting.  According to the Board, it reviewed executive session minutes on 
January 14, April 17, June 23, and September 19.  Upon our review of the minutes of the 
meetings that followed, we did not see the required announcement.  Moreover, in its response to 
the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board does not deny the allegation that it failed to make 
the required announcements.  Therefore, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it failed to announce the result of reviews of executive session minutes.  We commend the 
Board for committing to making the required announcements going forward. 
 
II. We decline to review the allegation that the Board failed to respond to a request 
for meeting minutes. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Law when it failed to respond to a 
request for minutes.  A request for meeting minutes may fall under the Public Records Law or 
the Open Meeting Law, depending on how the request is made.  We have said that a request for 
meeting minutes that is directed to a clerk or other employee as Records Access Officer will 
likely fall under the Public Records Law.  See OML 2025-206; OML 2020-14; OML 2019-126.
3    
The complainant’s request was directed to the town clerk.  The complainant states that she 
“requested copies of the minutes for 6 Executive Session meetings as a Public Records Request 
through the Town Clerk.”  Failure to respond to a request made under the Public Records Law 
implicates that law, not the Open Meeting Law.  As the Division of Open Government’s review 
concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and this allegation falls outside the Open 
Meeting Law, we decline to review it. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it failed to announce the results of its review of executive session minutes at the following 
open session.  We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and 
caution that similar violations in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
Law.   
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,  
  
 
Mat
thew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Elizabeth Smith (via email: ) 
 Katie Phelan, Chair, Swampscott Select Board (via email: kphelan@swampscottma.gov) 
 Kathleen Dupont, Town Clerk (via email: kdupont@swampscottma.gov) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
