===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
February 14, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 23 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Thomas A. Mullen, Esq. 
Thomas A. Mullen, P.C.  
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Mullen: 
 
This office received a complaint from Cathleen Knowlton on September 13, 2021,1 
alleging that the Princeton Selectboard (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about August 13, and 
you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated August 29. The complaint alleges that the 
Board deliberated outside of a properly noticed meeting when a member of the Board circulated 
to the full Board via email two letters he had drafted.2    
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a). We find, and the Board acknowledges, that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this determination we reviewed the original Open Meeting 
Law complaint, the Board’s response, the draft letters, the emails circulating those letters, the 
request for further review, and portions of a video recording of the Board’s August 10 meeting.3  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and, unless an executive session is convened, be open to members of the public. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body 
with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines 
“deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; 
 
1 All dates are in 2021, unless otherwise noted. 
2 Our review is limited to allegations of violations of the Open Meeting Law that were raised in the original 
complaint filed with the Board.  
3 Recordings of the Board’s meetings may be found at 
https://www.town.princeton.ma.us/selectboard/webforms/selectboard-meeting-recordings. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, 
scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of 
reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member 
is expressed.” Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of 
the members of a public body. Id.  
 
On August 9, Board member Richard Bisk emailed to the full Board two letters he had 
drafted. One letter was addressed to the Wachusett Regional School District School Committee 
and the school district’s superintendent and the other was addressed to Governor Charlie Baker 
and other officials. Both letters urged their recipients to implement a mask mandate for all 
students, faculty, and staff, and a vaccine mandate for all eligible students, faculty, and staff. In 
addition to circulation of the letters, the emails provided to our office show that on August 11 the 
full Board also circulated and approved a statement to be shared publicly with the town 
regarding the two letters. 
 
As noted above, the Board acknowledges that the circulation of the two draft letters to the 
full Board constituted deliberation outside of a properly posted meeting in violation of the Open 
Meeting Law. We additionally find that when the Board circulated and approved a statement 
related to those letters via email, this too constituted improper deliberation. See OML 2021-35.4 
 
In response to the complaint, at its August 24 meeting, the Board reviewed the Open 
Meeting Law complaint, acknowledged the violation, voted to rescind the two letters, and 
reviewed and approved two replacement letters. Additionally, during the August 24 meeting, 
Member Bisk read aloud portions of the email thread related to his draft letter. We commend the 
Board for taking these remedial actions. We also order the Board to release to the public the 
August 9 and 11 emails pertaining to the draft letters and the Board’s statement regarding those 
letters, as well as the draft letters and statement, if the Board has not yet done so.5     
  
Next, we must determine if the violation found here was intentional, as the Complainant 
asserts. In support of this assertion, the Complainant points to a video recording of the Board’s 
August 10 meeting in which Member Bisk states that he sent the draft letters to his fellow Board 
members and the Board then discussed the purpose and subject matter of the letters. To the 
contrary, we find that the Board’s actions at the August 10 meeting support a finding that the 
Board did not intend to hide the existence of the letters or even the way the letters were 
distributed to the Board, but rather misunderstood the requirements of the Open Meeting Law 
and was unaware that such communications were improper. Therefore, we do not find that the 
violation of the Open Meeting Law was intentional.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a properly noticed meeting. We order the Board’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar future violations could be 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
5 The Board may publicly release the documents by reading their content during a meeting and listing the documents 
in the meeting minutes, or by referencing the documents during a meeting and posting the documents along with the 
minutes on the municipal website. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. Additionally, we order the Board to release 
the documents listed above if they have not yet been released.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Princeton Selectboard (via email:   
 Cathleen Knowlton (via e-mail: ) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
