===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
       May 13, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 69 
 
 
Ann Lee 
Assistant Town Manager 
Town of Hanover 
550 Hanover Street, Suite 120 
Hanover, MA 02339 
 
By email only:  
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Lee: 
 
This office received two complaints from Patrick Higgins on November 17, 2020, 
alleging that the Hanover Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaints were originally filed with the Board on September 23 
and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by separate letters dated October 6.  The complaints 
allege that the Board posted insufficient notices for its September 14 and September 18 meetings 
when the notices included an executive session to discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining without identifying the bargaining unit(s) that would be discussed.  In addition, one 
complaint alleges that the notice for the Board’s September 14 meeting was insufficient for the 
additional reason that the notice included the topic “Consider Appointment to the Board of 
Registrars as Recommended by the Republican Town Committee” but did not identify the name 
of the individual being considered for appointment.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting 
an insufficient meeting notice as to the executive sessions but did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law with respect to the September 14 agenda topic “Consider Appointment to the Board of 
Registrars as Recommended by the Republican Town Committee.”  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s responses to the complaints, and 
the complaints filed with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed the notices and 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
open session minutes of the Board’s September 14 and September 18 meetings, viewed a video 
recording of the September 14 meeting,2 and spoke with you by phone.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On September 8, the Board posted notice of a meeting to be 
held on September 14.  The notice included, among other matters, the topic “Appointments … 
Consider Appointment to the Board of Registrars as recommended by the Republican Town 
Committee.”  In addition, the notice included the following topics: 
 
Executive Session 
17. To Discuss Strategy with Respect to Collective Bargaining Agreement(s) 
Negotiations [MGL Chapter 39 §28B] 
 
Work Agreements 
18. Consider Approval of Three (3) Year Collective Bargaining Agreement 
between the Town of Hanover and the Hanover Fire Fighter’s Association 
19. Consider Approval of Three (3) Year Collective Bargaining Agreement 
between the Town of Hanover and the Hanover Municipal Employees League 
(HMEL) 
 
The Board convened on September 14 as planned.  Among other things, the Board voted 
unanimously to appoint Kim Notarangelo to the Board of Registrars.  Later, prior to convening 
in executive session, the Chair requested a roll call vote “to enter into Executive Session to 
conduct a strategy session related to the ongoing negotiations being conducted between the 
Town Manager, Assistant Town Manager, and Finance Director who are representing the Town 
of Hanover and the Board of Selectmen in the collective bargaining agreement negotiations with 
the HMEL, AFSME, Fire and Police Unions as I have determined that a discussion in Open 
Session will have a detrimental effect on the negotiations.”  The Board voted by roll call to enter 
executive session.  Following executive session, the Board returned to open session, where the 
Chair announced that no vote would be taken that evening, but that a meeting would be held on 
September to finalize discussions. 
 
The Board similarly posted notice of a meeting to be held on September 18.  The notice 
included only two substantive topics: 
 
Executive Session 
3. To Discuss Strategy with Respect to Collective Bargaining Agreement(s) 
Negotiations [MGL Chapter 39 §28B].  The Board will return to open session. 
 
Work Agreements 
4. Consider Approval of Three (3) Year Collective Bargaining Agreement 
between the Town of Hanover and the Hanover Fire Fighter’s Association 
 
 
2 A video recording of the Board’s September 14 meeting is available at 
http://schedule.hanoverctv.org/CablecastPublicSite/show/1910?channel=3. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The Board convened on September 18 as planned.  As on September 14, the Chair 
requested a roll call vote to enter into Executive Session for the same reason as stated during the 
September 14 meeting; the Chair again identified the bargaining units to be discussed as “the 
HMEL, AFSME, Fire and Police Unions.”  Following executive session, the Board returned to 
open session, where the Board voted to approve a three-year collective bargaining agreement 
between the Town of Hanover and the Hanover Fire Fighter’s Association.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and that every 
notice include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies 
must list topics for discussion with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a topic to 
include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35; OML 
2012-71; OML 2011-44.3 
 
I. The Notices for the Board’s September 14 and September 18 Meetings Failed to 
Include Sufficient Specificity Regarding the Executive Sessions Topics.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a).  Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see 
also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 
(2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... 
because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business 
in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or 
improper”). 
 
Executive session Purpose 3 allows a public body to enter executive session to “discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). 4  When convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 
3, a public body must identify the collective bargaining unit with whom it will be negotiating, if 
doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy.  See OML 2019-37; 2018-139; 
OML 2016-43; OML 2015-87.  
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
4 The Complainant correctly points out that the statute the Board cited on its meeting notices as authorizing the 
executive sessions, General Laws chapter 39, § 28B, was repealed in 2010; the Open Meeting Law is now codified 
in General Laws chapter 30A, sections 18-25.   
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
The complaints allege that the executive session topics listed on the notices for both the 
September 14 and September 18 meetings lacked sufficient detail because they did not identify 
the collective bargaining unit with whom the Board was negotiating.  We agree.  Although both 
notices included a separate topic to “consider approval” of work agreements, with the specific 
bargaining units identified, which the Board asserts adequately identified the bargaining units 
that were the subject of the executive sessions, we do not find that the notices were sufficiently 
clear that the work agreements which would be considered for approval were the same ones that 
were the subject of the executive sessions.  We acknowledge that the Chair’s announcements on 
both dates prior to entering executive session identified the specific bargaining units to be 
discussed in executive session, but find that that information should have been included on the 
meeting notices as well.  See OML 2019-37. 
  
II. The Notice for the September 14 Meeting Was Sufficiently Specific With Regard to 
the Appointment to the Board of Registrars. 
 
As for the allegation that the notice for the September 14 meeting was insufficiently 
specific because it did not identify the specific individual being considered for “[a]ppointment to 
the Board of Registrars as recommended by the Republican Town Committee,” we find that the 
Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  In general, a public body must include on its 
meeting notices the names of the specific individuals who are being considered for employment 
or appointment.  See OML 2017-148; OML 2016-167.  Here, however, the Republican Town 
Committee emailed its recommendation to the Board on the afternoon of Friday, September 11, 
after Town Hall had closed for the day; the recommendation likely was not seen until Monday, 
September 14, the day of the meeting.  Therefore, where the name of the specific individual 
being considered for appointment to the Board of Registrars was not reasonably anticipated 48 
hours in advance, excluding weekends, we find that the Board did not violate the Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting notice for its 
September 14 and September 18 meetings that failed to sufficiently identify the specific 
bargaining units to be discussed in executive session.  We find that the Board did not violate the 
Law with respect to the September 14 agenda topic “Consider Appointment to the Board of 
Registrars as Recommended by the Republican Town Committee.”    We order immediate and 
future compliance with the Law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations 
could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
       Sincerely, 
 
        
 
       Carrie Benedon 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:   Patrick Higgins – By e-mail only:  
Hanover Board of Selectmen – By e-mail only:  
 
 
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
