===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 23, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 120 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Carolyn M. Murray, Esq. 
KP Law 
cmurray@k-plaw.com   
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Murray: 
This office received a complaint from George Harris on November 5, 2021,
1 alleging that 
the Wayland Zoning Board of Appeals (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about August 19, and 
you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated September 17. The complaint alleges that 
1) the notice for the Board’s meeting held on August 10 was insufficiently detailed with respect 
to the location of the meeting; and 2) the minutes for the Board’s June 8 meeting were not timely 
approved. 
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a) and find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s 
response, the request for further review, the notice for the Board’s August 10 meeting, and a 
video recording of the Board’s August 10 meeting.
2  
 
First, a public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
inc
luding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must be 
printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the 
meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. Id. A 
public body should provide the street address of a meeting location where possible. See OML 
 
1 All dates are in 2021 unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the Board’s August 10 meeting may be found at https://www.waycam.tv/government -on-
demand.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
2019-44; OML 2016-94; OML 2016-38.3 Additionally, if access to a meeting will also be 
provided via adequate, alternative means of remote access, then clear instructions for how the 
public may access the meeting must be included on the notice. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 
2020-102; See OML 2022-106. 
 
Although the Board was not required to provide both in-person and remote access to its 
August 10 meeting, because the meeting notice did identify an in-person option, the notice 
needed to provide enough detail to reasonably inform the public of the physical location of the 
meeting. Here, the notice read, in relevant part, as follows: 
 
TOWN OF WAYLAND – CLERK’S OFFICE 
NOTICE OF MEETINGS OF TOWN 
BOARDS/COMMITTEES/COMMISSIONS 
. . . 
 
NAME OF BOARD/COMM: Zoning Board of Appeals 
FILED BY: Manny Oliver 
DATE OF MEETING: August 10
th, 2021 
TIME OF MEETING: 7:00p.m. 
PLACE OF MEETING: In-Person and Remote 
 
Pursuant to Chapter 20 of the Acts of 2021, this meeting will be conducted in person 
and via remote means, in accordance with applicable law. This means that members 
of the public body as well as members of the public may access this meeting in 
person, or via virtual means. In person attendance will be at the meeting location 
listed above, and it is possible that any or all members of the public body may attend 
remotely, with in -person attendance consisting of  members of the public. The 
meeting may also be accessed remotely via zoom at the link below:  LINK: 
https://zoom.us/i/99400306208?pwd=U1pXcWFla3AwbkJIZzRGTGp3bzczUT09 
PW: 791698. 
 
Because the notice failed to include the physical location of the meeting, we fi
 nd the 
notice was insufficiently specific, in violation of the Open Meeting Law. We order the Board’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that a determination 
by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate 
the Open Meeting Law. However, because the complaint does not allege that any member of the 
public was misled or confused by the meeting notice, or that the meeting was inaccessible to the 
public, we order no further remedial action. See OML 2022-106; OML 2016-77. 
 
Second, The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies “create and maintain accurate 
minutes
 of all meetings.” G.L. c. 30A, §22(a). Meeting minutes must be reviewed and approved 
by the public body in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, §22(c). “Timely manner” means “within the 
next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can 
show good cause for further delay.” 940 CMR 29.11; see OML 2018-48. Whenever possible, we 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2018-67; OML 
2017-133.  
  
Here, the notice for the Board’s August 10 meeting accidentally listed the wrong date for 
the m
inutes to be reviewed and approved during the August 10 meeting: listing July 8 rather than 
June 8. Although the draft minutes for the June 8 meeting had been circulated to the Board prior 
to the August 10 meeting, upon reading the notice topic “Review/Accept minutes: July 8th, 
2021,” Board member Tom White, who was filling in as chair for the meeting, mistakenly 
believed that the Board was scheduled to review minutes for a July 8 meeting.4 The Board 
members, believing that they had not received a copy of draft minutes for a July 8 meeting, did 
not review or approve any minutes during the August 10 meeting. The error was corrected at the 
Board’s following meeting held on September 14, during which it approved the minutes for the 
June 8 meeting. Because the September 14 meeting was more than three meetings and 30 days 
past the June 8 meeting, we find that the June 8 meeting minutes were not timely approved, in 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. We acknowledge that the Board had already taken 
corrective action by approving the meeting minutes in question before this complaint was filed 
with our office, and therefore we order no further remedial action.   
 
Finally, we must determine whether the Board’s failure
  to timely approve the minutes of 
the June 8 meeting constitutes an intentional violation, as the Complainant urges. An intentional 
violation is an “act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of 
[the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. An intentional violation may be found where the 
public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the Law’s requirement or has previously been 
advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting Law. Id. In support of his assertion that 
the violation was intentional, the Complainant cites to a determination issued by our office, OML 
2019-21, in which we found the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely 
approve 11 sets of meeting minutes.  
 
Here
, after review of the video recording of the August 10 meeting, we find that the 
failure to approve the June 8 meeting minutes during the August 10 meeting was clearly due to 
an administrative error where the minutes that were intended to be reviewed were described 
incorrectly on the meeting notice, leading to confusion by the Board. Additionally, we note that 
unlike in OML 2019-21, here the Board approved the minutes for the June 8 meeting only one 
meeting past the timeframe allowed in the regulations. Therefore, we do not find the violation 
here to be intentional. However, we do note that this is at least the third time we have warned the 
Board regarding timely approval of meeting minutes. We caution the Board that it should take 
more care to approve minutes in a timely manner and that a determination by our office of a 
similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting 
Law and could result in the imposition of a civil penalty. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged in the complaint. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
 
4 The Board did not hold a meeting on July 8, 2021. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Meeting Law and caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar violation in 
the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: 
Wayland Zoning Board of Appeals (via email: zbamembers@wayland.ma.us)  
George Harris (via e-mail )  
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
