===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
October 12, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 187 
 
 
Craig Hansen 
Chair, North Middlesex Regional School Committee  
66 Brookline Street 
Townsend, MA 01469 
 
By email only: chansen@nmrsd.org  
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Hansen: 
This office received a complaint from Allyson Donovan on September 28, 2021, alleging 
that the North Middlesex Regional School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on 
August 30, 2021, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated September 17, 
2021.
1  The complaint alleges that the Committee improperly deliberated while on recess during 
a meeting held on August 26, and failed to allow for public participation during that meeting.     
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged.  
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to 
the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We also 
reviewed the notice and open session minutes of the Committee meeting held on August 26, as 
well as a video recording of that meeting.
2  Finally, we spoke with Attorney Nicholas J. 
Dominello, legal counsel for the Committee, on September 21, 2022. 
 
 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2021.  
2 A video recording of the Board meeting held on August 26 is available at: 
https://pepperell.vod.castus.tv/vod/?video=223fdbf9-94b7-469a-ac73-
40ad3351e665&nav=search%2Fschool&volume=.65 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Committee is a nine-member public body; thus, five 
members constitute a quorum.   
 
The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on August 26 at 7:00 P.M. in the 
Performing Arts Center auditorium of the North Middlesex Regional High School.  The notice 
included seven main topics, including New Business and Subcommittee Reports.  Each of these 
topics included specific item descriptions that further advised the public of the topics to be 
discussed.  Specifically, “New Business” included “Strategic Plan Update” and “North 
Middlesex Regional School District Handbooks,” with a suggested motion to approve the 
elementary, middle and high school handbooks for the 2021-2022 school year.  Moreover, 
“Subcommittee Reports” listed five additional subheadings including the adoption of policies 
relating to student discipline and face coverings.    
 
The August 26 meeting was held as planned and a quorum of Committee members were 
present in the auditorium.
3  Committee members were sitting at a long table on the stage and 
wearing masks.  Some members of the public who were in attendance were also wearing masks, 
while others were not.  Those not wearing masks were asked to do so but refused and the crowd 
became disruptive.  The Committee then left the auditorium and stood separately in groups in the 
hallway.  Specifically, three Committee members stood together in one part of the hallway, three 
other Committee members stood together in another part of the hallway, and Chair Craig 
Hansen
4 stood further down the hallway alone.  The Superintendent called legal counsel for 
advice on how to proceed with the meeting.  Thereafter, he relayed the advice from legal counsel 
to Chair Hansen who then asked the Committee members to return to the auditorium.   
 
According to the minutes, the meeting was called to order at 7:44 P.M.  The Committee 
met for approximately eight minutes and the members briefly discussed and unanimously voted 
by roll call to approve i) the district strategic plan for the upcoming school year, ii) the 
elementary, middle and high school handbooks; iii) the student discipline policy; and iv) the face 
covering policy which imposed a mask mandate.  The Committee then adjourned the meeting 
without allowing for public comment. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
beration and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
 
3 Seven members of the Committee were present in the physical meeting location, one member participated 
remotely, and the ninth member was absent. 
4 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
bus
iness within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is 
a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee deliberated while on recess during the August 
26 meeting.  At the very beginning of the meeting, the Committee left the auditorium after 
members of the public refused to wear masks and became disruptive.  When the Committee 
returned to the meeting room approximately 30 minutes later, members briefly discussed and 
voted on four policies, one of which was a mask mandate.  First, once a meeting begins, the 
public body controls its own agenda.  Accordingly, the Law does not prohibit a public body from 
removing, postponing, or declining to discuss a topic listed on a meeting notice or taking topics 
in a different order than listed on the notice, as the Committee did here when it discussed only 
four of the topics listed on the notice.  See OML 2014-35; OML 2021-201.
5  Second, even 
though the Committee was in recess for a significant period of time, the Committee denies, and 
we find no evidence, that it discussed any policies while outside of the auditorium.
6  Absent 
specific evidence to the contrary, we credit the public body’s version of events that it did not 
deliberate outside of the August 26 meeting.  See OML 2021-30; OML 2015-8; OML 2014-122.  
Furthermore, we have stated in prior determinations that agreement without substantive 
discussion among public body members or even the lack of substantive discussion prior to a vote 
is insufficient to support the inference that those members deliberated outside of a noticed 
meeting.  See OML 2017-125; OML 2017-93; OML 2013-128.  We also note that, although we 
find no evidence of any discussion involving Committee business among Committee members 
outside of the meeting, discussion that reached four or fewer members out of the nine-member 
Committee would not constitute deliberation in any event.  Accordingly, we find no evidence 
that the Committee deliberated outside of a noticed meeting and therefore we find no violation of 
the Open Meeting Law.  
 
The complaint further alleges that the Committee did not allow for public participation 
during t
he August 26 meeting.  The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow 
public participation, but rather provides that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public 
body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be 
silent.”  G.L. c. 30A § 20(f).  The law permits the Chair of the Committee to decide who may 
speak at a meeting and for how long.  See OML 2017-189; OML 2014-23; OML 2012-23.  We 
do, however, encourage public bodies to allow for as much public participation as time and 
circumstances permit.  See OML 2015-12; OML 2014-129; OML 2012-59.  Nevertheless,  
because it is within the Chair’s discretion to limit public participation during a meeting, the Chair 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law by preventing the public from addressing the Committee 
during the August 26 meeting.7  See OML 2020-114; OML 2017-189; OML 2014-23; OML 
2012-78.  
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
6 We advise the Committee that, while the Open Meeting Law does not contain any provisions regarding recesses or 
the permissible duration thereof, we have previously explained that recesses are generally reserved for relatively 
brief breaks to use the bathroom, to copy documents, or to change venues to accommodate a greater number of 
attendees.  See OML 2016-85. 
7 The Division of Open Government’s statutory authority concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.  Therefore, the failure of the Committee to comply with its own policy regarding public participation 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter.   
  
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Allyson Donovan – By email only:  
Nicholas J. Dominello, Esq. – By email only: Nicholas.Dominello@VDHBoston.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
is outside the scope of our jurisdiction.  We offer no opinion on whether any actions taken by the Committee could 
be a violation of some other law or regulation outside the scope of the Division’s review.  
