===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
September 20, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 178 
 
 
Dennis Farias 
City Clerk/Clerk of the City Council 
133 William Street 
New Bedford, Massachusetts 02740 
 
By email only: Dennis.Farias@newbedford-ma.gov  
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Mr. Farias: 
 
This office received a complaint from Craig Ptaszenski on November 19, 2023, and a 
complaint from Gillian Prorok on February 9, 2024, alleging that the New Bedford City Council 
(the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  Mr. Ptaszenski’s 
complaint was originally filed with the Council on December 8, 2023; Ms. Prorok’s complaint 
was originally filed with the Council on December 31, 2023; and you responded to both 
complaints, on behalf of the Council, by separate letters dated December 18, 2023, and January 
19, 2024, respectively.  Specifically, both complaints allege that the Council improperly removed 
and denied members of the public from the meeting room during a meeting held on December 4, 
2023.  Mr. Ptaszenski’s complaint further alleges that Council members deliberated after the 
conclusion of the December 4, 2023, meeting. 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters.  Following 
our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged.  
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Council’s responses to 
the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review.  We also 
reviewed the notice and open session minutes of the Council meeting held on December 4, 2023, 
as well as a video recording of that meeting.
1  In addition, we spoke with you by telephone on 
September 12, 2024.   
 
 
1 A video recording of the Council meeting held on December 4, 2023, was provided to this office by Mr. 
Ptaszenski. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Council posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
December 4, 2023, at 7:00 P.M.  The notice stated that the location of the meeting would be City 
Council Chambers, Room 214 in City Hall.  The only topic listed on the notice was an executive 
session “for discussing the options for deploying security personnel, devices and strategies in and 
around City Hall and the Downtown area especially in the evening hours while various public 
meetings are held to assure the safety of the public and City employees/Officials.”  The notice 
stated that the meeting would “open in public session, and then the City Council will take a vote 
to go” into executive session. 
 
The December 4, 2023, meeting was held as planned.  Council President Linda Morad 
called the meeting to order around 7:04 P.M. and made several brief announcements.
2  President 
Morad then announced that the Council planned to convene in executive session to discuss 
deploying security personnel, devices and strategies in and around City Hall and the Downtown 
area for the safety of the public and City employees and that the Council would not return to 
open session but adjourn from executive session.  The Council unanimously voted by roll call to 
convene in executive session and President Morad then asked members of the public to “clear 
the chamber.”  Members of the public protested and asked the Council what it was hiding.  
President Morad told a police officer, who was present in the meeting room, that there was to be 
no public in the building, that the building needed to be cleared and “the doors are to be locked.”  
Members of the public eventually left the meeting room, the police escorted them out of the 
building, and they were not allowed back in the building. 
 
The Council met in executive session for approximately two hours.  Council Member 
Derek Baptiste left the meeting early at around 8:20 P.M.  The Council adjourned from the 
executive session around 9:20 P.M.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Council of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when meeting in executive session, all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, §20(a).  In order to be open to the 
public, a meeting must be accessible to the public.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); OML 2014-3.  
Access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and 
hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2017-135; OML 
2015-38; OML 2014-3; OML 2013-189.3    
 
A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that 
a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each 
 
2 Ms. Morad is still a member of the Council but is no longer President. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly 
announce
d whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.   
 
All executive sessions must be preceded by an open session that is open and accessible to 
the publ
ic because the public has a right to witness the procedural steps in order to observe the 
vote and learn the purpose for the executive session.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(b) (1)-(3); OML 
2013-195.  When the only business to be discussed during an open session are the procedural 
requirements for entering executive session, we have explained that public bodies must list 
“Open Session” on the meeting notice, as this is the only means by which members of the public 
are informed that a public body will, in fact, hold an open meeting that they are permitted to 
attend.  See OML 2020-47; OML 2013-9; OML 2012-68.  Without such notice, members of the 
public are essentially denied the opportunity to attend and learn the reasons for the executive 
session.  See OML 2023-68; OML 2013-195.   
 
The notice of the December 4, 2023, meeting indicated that the “meeting will open in 
public
 session” and the Council would then convene in executive session.  The December 4, 
2023, meeting was held in the Council chamber, and President Morad opened the meeting, made 
some brief announcements, and then announced the purpose for the executive session.  The 
Council took a roll call vote prior to convening in executive session and then asked members of 
the public to leave the room.  Here, the public was present in the meeting location and able to 
witness the procedural steps taken by the Council, which included observing the roll call vote 
and hearing the reason for the executive session.  Although all executive sessions must be 
preceded by an open session so that the public has an opportunity to attend and learn the reasons 
for the executive session, the executive session meeting itself is entirely closed to the public, 
offering no ability to witness the proceedings.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  Only if a public body 
meets in executive session under Purpose 1 does the individual to be discussed during such an 
executive session have the right to be present during deliberations, to have counsel present, and 
to speak on his own behalf.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1).  Here, the Council met in executive 
session under Purpose 4 on December 4, 2023.  As such, we find that the Council did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law by requiring members of the public to leave the Council chamber and 
restricting their attendance at the executive session meeting.  See OML 2019-161; OML 2013-
50.   
 
We understand that, after the Council convened in executive session, police escorted 
mem
bers of the public out of City Hall and the public was barred from reentering the building.  
Although there is no more basic requirement of the Open Meeting Law than that meetings be 
open to the public, here the Council had concluded the open session portion of the December 4, 
2023, meeting.  As stated above, the executive session meeting itself is entirely closed to the 
public and the public does not have a right to witness the executive session proceedings.  There 
is no suggestion that any other public meetings or events were taking place in City Hall on the 
evening of December 4, 2023, nor that City Hall services were open to the public at that time, 
such that members of the public would have been deprived of the ability to access services or 
attend other events.  Compare, e.g., OML 2023-109 (finding that meeting was not accessible 
when the building doors locked on an automated schedule shortly after the meeting began); OML 
2014-118 (finding that meeting venue was not accessible where the main entrance was locked 
===PAGE 4===
and there was no signage instructing the public how to access the meeting). Therefore, we do
not find a violation here when members of the public were removed and prohibited from entering
City Hall.
Finally, in his complaint, Mr. Ptaszenski suggests that the December 4, 2023, meeting
concluded around 8:20 P.M. when Mr. Baptiste was seen leaving the building and therefore
alleges that Council members must have deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting by
remaining inside the Council chamber for another hour. We find, and the minutes state, that the
December 4, 2023, meeting actually concluded around 9:20 P.M. Therefore, the Council had not
yet adjourned when Mr. Baptiste left the meeting but instead was still discussing matters in
executive session. As such, we find that the Council did not deliberate outside of a properly
posted meeting.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting
Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the
Council. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Keny lame Kilague
KenyAnne Kilcoyne
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Craig Ptaszenski - By email only:
Gillian Prorok - By email only:
New Bedford City Council c/o Council President Naomi Carney - By email only:
Naomi. Carney@newbedford-ma.gov
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4