===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 1, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 91 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Robert L. Alford, II 
Chair, Swansea Advisory and Finance Committee 
RAlford@swanseama.gov  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Alford: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on April 23, 2025,
1 alleging that 
the Swansea Finance and Advisory Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about 
March 27, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated April 14.2 The 
complaint alleges that, with respect to its March 5 meeting, the Committee 1) posted the meeting 
to be held at the Swansea police station knowing that the station could not accommodate the 
crowd anticipated to attend the meeting; and 2) failed to take votes by roll call during the 
meeting. With respect to the minutes of the March 5 meeting, the complaint alleges that the 
minutes 1) do not include a list of documents and exhibits used at the meeting;
3 2) do not record 
that the meeting was called to order at the police station or that the Committee voted to move the 
meeting location to the high school; and 3) do not record votes by roll call.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The Committee’s response also addressed two additional Open Meeting Law complaints filed by Mr. Higgins. 
Those complaints have been resolved by this office under separate letters. 
3 For the same reasons as explained in OML Declination 6-18-2025 (Northborough Housing Authority Board of 
Commissioners) and OML Declination 6-18-2025 (Swansea Finance and Advisory Committee), we decline to 
review this allegation. Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General’s 
website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Committee’s response, the request for further review, and the notice for and minutes of the 
Committee’s March 5 meeting.  
 
FACTS 
 
Based on the uncontroverted evidence before us, we find the facts to be as follows. On 
February 25 the Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on March 5 at 6:30 p.m.4 The 
notice listed the meeting location as Swansea Police Station, Meeting Room 1700, G.A.R. 
Highway, Swansea, MA, 02777. The Committee typically holds its meetings at the Swansea 
police station. At the time the notice for the March 5 meeting was posted, Chair Alford
5 was 
unaware that the meeting might draw a larger-than-usual crowd. 
 
On March 5, prior to the formal start of the meeting, it became clear that the police 
station would not be able to accommodate the crowd that wished to attend the meeting; indeed, 
the Fire Chief ruled that the meeting room was overcapacity. In response to this ruling from the 
Fire Chief, Chair Alford called for the meeting to be moved to the Joseph Case High School. In 
addition to a verbal announcement, the Committee updated the calendar on the Town’s website 
and posted a sign at the police station announcing that the meeting location had been changed to 
the Media Center at the Joseph Case High School. Finally, a police officer was stationed at the 
door of the police station to redirect any attendees to the new meeting location.  
 
Ultimately, the meeting was called to order at 7:00 p.m. at the Media Center of the 
Joseph Case High School. All members of the Committee were physically present at the meeting 
location. One individual from the Town, the Director of Finance and Operations, participated in 
the meeting remotely. The Committee did not take any votes by roll call. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance of the meeting, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(b). Meeting notices must include, among other things, the date, time, and place of 
the meeting. Id. Meetings must be open and accessible to members of the public, unless a lawful 
executive session has been properly convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a); 21. Access to a meeting 
generally includes the opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and hear what is 
being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2015-38; OML 2014-3; OML 
2013- 189. 
 
Public bodies must make reasonable accommodations for larger-than-usual 
crowds. See OML 2023-205; OML 2015-92; OML 2012-66. Such accommodations may include 
changing the location of a meeting if necessary. A public body is permitted to change a meeting 
location, even less than 48 hours prior to a meeting, as long as it makes reasonable efforts to 
notify the public of the new meeting location. See OML 2022-39 (finding that the public body 
 
4 One of the topics for discussion at the meeting was the presentation of the Fiscal Year 2026 school budget. The 
School Committee posted a separate meeting notice for its attendance at the Committee’s March 5 meeting. The 
complaint does not assert any allegations against the School Committee. 
5 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
made reasonable efforts to inform the public of the change in meeting location by posting a 
revised notice as well as posting notice on all entrances to the original meeting location); OML 
2020-95 (finding no violation where the public body posted conspicuous and timely signage 
notifying the public that the meeting location had changed); OML 2017-152 (finding no 
violation where the public body posted a revised notice the morning of the meeting and placed a 
large sign at the original meeting location redirecting members of the public to the new location). 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Meeting minutes must 
include “the date, time and place [of the meeting], the members present or absent, a summary of 
the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” Id. 
Finally, when one or more members of a public body participate in a meeting remotely, all votes 
must be taken by roll call, 940 CMR 29.10(7)(c), and such votes must be recorded in the meeting 
minutes by roll call. See OML 2025-54; OML 2021-128. 
 
I. The Committee Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Posting Notice That Its 
March 5 Meeting Would Be Held at the Swansea Police Station, and the Committee 
Was Not Required to Take Votes By Roll Call During the Meeting. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting by noticing its 
March 5 meeting “to be held at the Swansea Police Station, knowing it did not have sufficient 
capacity for the expected members of the general public to be able to attend, and sit down to 
observe [the meeting].” In its response to the complaint, the Committee explains that it had not 
anticipated the size of the crowd that would attend its March 5 meeting, and that it only became 
apparent that the meeting location would be overcapacity just prior to the meeting. The 
Complainant does not dispute the Committee’s assertions, nor does he provide any evidence that 
would counter the Committee’s assertions.  
 
Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit the Committee’s account that it did 
not anticipate prior to the March 5 meeting that a larger-than-usual crowd would wish to attend 
the meeting. See OML 2017-169; OML 2017-93. Additionally, once it became clear that the 
original meeting location would not be able to accommodate the crowd, Chair Alford announced 
that the meeting would be held at the high school instead. Furthermore, the Committee posted 
notice of the change in meeting location on the Town’s website and at the police station and a 
police officer was assigned to redirect any members of the public who arrived at the original 
meeting location to the new meeting location. Finally, the complaint does not allege that the 
Complainant or any other member of the public attempted to attend the March 5 meeting but was 
unable to. 
 
Next, the complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to take votes by roll call during the March 5 meeting when an individual participated in the 
meeting remotely. The Committee’s response and the minutes of the March 5 meeting show that 
the only individual who participated in the March 5 meeting remotely was the Director of 
Finance and Operations. The Director of Finance and Operations is not a member of the 
Committee. As such, the Committee was not required to take votes by roll call where all 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
members of the Committee attended the meeting in person. See 940 CMR 29.10(7)(c) (“All 
votes taken during any meeting in which a member participates remotely shall be by roll call 
vote.” (emphasis added)). 
 
II. The Minutes of the March 5 Meeting Are Not Insufficient as Alleged in the 
Complaint. 
 
We understand the complaint to allege that the minutes of the March 5 meeting are 
insufficient because they “do not reflect that Chairman Alford called the meeting to order at the 
police station nor is any motion listed to vote to relocate the meeting to the Joseph Case High 
School,” and because they “do not provide the details of the recorded votes by name.” 
 
The March 5 meeting was not formally convened at the police station and the Committee 
did not take a vote to change the meeting location. Rather, Chair Alford called for the meeting to 
be moved to the high school and the meeting was called to order at the high school. Additionally, 
during the March 5 meeting, the Committee did not take any votes by roll call, which the 
Complainant concedes by alleging in the complaint that the Committee failed to take roll call 
votes. Meeting minutes must accurately record what was actually discussed and voted on during 
a meeting; they should not include discussions or votes that did not occurred during the meeting. 
See OML 2023-202. The complaint essentially alleges that the Committee failed to include in its 
minutes things that did not occur during the March 5 meeting. As such, we find no violation with 
respect to these allegations. 
 
To the extent the complaint alleges that the Committee was required to call the meeting 
to order at the police station; required to vote to change the meeting location; or required to 
record by roll call in its minutes votes that were not taken by roll call, it was not. See G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Other than when convening in executive session, the Open Meeting Law does 
not prescribe specific convening procedures, nor does it require that a public body take votes. 
See OML 2016-1 (explaining that, other than when convening in executive session, “the Open 
Meeting Law does not require a public body to take votes, only that it record in the minutes all 
votes and actions taken”). Finally, although we have explained that roll call votes must be 
recorded in meeting minutes by roll call—that is, must record the name of each member and how 
they voted—we have not found such a requirement for votes that are not take by roll call.  
 
  
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via email: )  
 Diane Pelland, Town Clerk (via email: dpelland@swanseama.gov) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
