===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
February 3, 2020
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
OML 2020-10
Anthony Jay Detarando
Chair, Charlton Economic Development Commission 
Charlton Municipal Offices 
37 Main Street 
Charlton, MA 01507
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Mr. Detarando:
On September 251 this office received a complaint from Kristin Kustigian, alleging that 
the Charlton Economic Development Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission 
on or about August 19. The Commission did not respond. The complaint alleges that the 
Commission has failed to create minutes for most of its meeting from 2016 through 2019.
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to create minutes for meetings it held from 2016 through 2019. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaint, the request for further 
review, email exchanges between the Complainant and Town officials, email exchanges between 
the Town’s Planning Director and members of the Commission, and the Town of Charlton’s 
municipal website.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Commission posted notice for nine meetings in 2016, 
six meetings in 2017, six meetings in 2018, and five meetings in 2019. On August 4, the 
Complainant requested all Commission meeting minutes for 2019. On August 6, the 
Complainant amended her request to include all Commission meeting minutes from 2016 
through 2019. Through a series of email exchanges with various Town officials, the Complainant 
was informed that, other than for two joint meetings with the Board of Selectmen, the 
Commission had not created minutes for any of its meetings held from 2016 through 2019. The 
Complainant was also informed that for some unidentified meetings during 2016 and 2017, a 
quorum may not have been present.
1 All dates are in 2019, unless otherwise stated.

===PAGE 2===
On October 1, our office communicated with the Town Clerk and explained that the 
Commission had not responded to the Open Meeting Law complaint filed by the Complainant. 
Thereafter, Randy Benson, the Town’s Planning Director, emailed five members of the 
Commission inquiring as to whether there were any minutes for Commission meetings held 
during the last few years. Four Commission members responded by email stating that they did 
not have any minutes and explaining that at times over the last few years, meetings had been 
cancelled or the Commission had struggled to convene a quorum.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body 
“create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth 
the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each 
subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the 
actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The 
meeting minutes must be reviewed and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); 940 
CMR 29.11 (2). The Open Meeting Law itself does not define “timely manner.” However, the 
Attorney General's Open Meeting Law regulations provide that “timely manner” means “within 
the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body 
can show good cause for further delay.” 940 CMR 29.11 (2). Whenever possible, we recommend 
that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2019-20.2 A “meeting” is 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body's jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id. For purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id
Although the Commission has asserted that some of the posted meetings did not occur 
because of a lack of quorum, we find no dispute that the Commission held at least some meetings 
between 2016 and 2019, yet did not create and approve minutes for any meetings. Therefore, the 
Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to create and approve minutes for 
meetings it held between 2016 and 2019. We order the Commission to create minutes for its 
meetings held between 2016 and 2019 at which a quorum of the Commission was present. The 
Commission must create these minutes to the best of its ability, through whatever means are 
available, including the memories and individual notations of the attendees. Additionally, we 
order each Commission member to review the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law training 
video on minutes.3
Finally, although not raised in a formal complaint, we note that the Commission did not 
respond to the complaint at issue here as required by the Open Meeting Law. After receiving an
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3 Training Video 5: Minutes may be found at https://www.mass.gov/service-details/open-meeting-law-training- 
videos.
2

===PAGE 3===
Open Meeting Law complaint, a public body must, within 14 business days, meet to review the 
complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send a response to the 
complainant. See with 940 CMR 29.05(5). The public body must also provide the Attorney 
General with a copy of the complaint, the response, and a description of any remedial action 
taken. Id; G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). We remind the Commission of its obligation to comply with all 
provisions of the Open Meeting Law, including the obligation to timely respond to Open 
Meeting Law complaints.
CONCLUSION
For the above reasons, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to create and approve meeting minutes. We order immediate and future compliance with 
the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar violations in the future may be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the Law. 940 CMR 29.02. Additionally, we order the Commission 
to create minutes for its meetings held between 2016 and 2019 at which a quorum of the 
Commission was present, and to certify to our office that it has done so, within sixty (60) days of 
receipt of this letter. Finally, we order each Commission member to review the Attorney 
General's Open Meeting Law training video on minutes. Each member shall certify to our office 
that they have done so within sixty (60) days of receipt of this letter.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions.
Sincerely;
lizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Kristin Kustigian
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3
