===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
March 5, 2013 
OML 2013 — 24 
Lauren F. Goldberg 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
Re: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Goldberg: 
This office received a complaint from Christopher Morra on May 8, 2012, alleging a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by the Rehoboth Board of Selectmen 
(the "Board"). The complaint specifically alleges that "[w]ithout being listed on the agenda for 
the February 21, 2012 [Board] meeting 	 Chairman Michael Costello allowed acting police 
chief, Lt. James Trombetta to speak on matters that are the subject of government investigations 
and civil litigation," and that Lt. Trombetta made false, misleading statements at this meeting. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about March 22, 2012. We received 
your response on behalf of the Board in a letter dated April 20, 2012. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the March 22, 2012 and May 8, 2012 complaints and 
the Board's April 20, 2012 response. We also reviewed the notice for and the open session 
minutes of the Board's February 21, 2012 meeting. Finally, we reviewed a video recording, 
provided by the complainant, of the Board's February 21, 2012 meeting. 
FACTS 
The Board posted notice on February 16, 2012 for its February 21, 2012 meeting, and 
listed "Open Form" [sic] as a topic for discussion, along with the subtopics "Town 
Administrator's Report" and "Announcement of Police Dept. DOJ Grant." Sometime between 
February 16, 2012 and February 21, 2012, Rehoboth Police Lieutenant James Trombetta met 
with the State Ethics Commission (the "Commission") to discuss a complaint filed with the 
Commission concerning an investigation into the conduct of Rehoboth police officer Sergeant 
===PAGE 2===
James Medeiros. Lt. Trombetta did not inform the Board Chair that he intended to discuss the 
ethics complaint at the Board's February 21, 2012 meeting. 
During the "Police Dept. DOJ Grant" portion of the meeting, Lt. Trombetta announced 
that the Police Department had received grant funding to purchase new vehicles and equipment. 
After the announcement, Lt. Trombetta stated that there was "another matter that [he] would like 
to make the Board aware of." He then discussed the complaint filed with the Commission 
concerning the conduct of Sgt. Medeiros. Lt. Trombetta stated that he had received a copy of a 
letter that was sent by the Commission indicating that the Commission had closed its 
investigation and no further action was necessary. Lt. Trombetta stated that the Police 
Department was "upset" and "enraged" at the accusations that officers were under investigation 
by various state and federal agencies. He indicated that no Rehoboth police officer has ever been 
investigated or charged by any state or federal agency, other than the investigation conducted by 
the Commission. Lt. Trombetta stated that because these accusations came from the Board, that 
the Board should provide a public apology to Sgt. Medeiros. A Board member then moved to 
publically apologize to Sgt. Medeiros "for any impugning of his integrity on the Town's part." 
The motion was seconded and approved unanimously. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Board did not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Discussing a Topic that the Chair 
did not Reasonably Anticipate and did not List on the Meeting Notice.  
A public body must post notice of every meeting, including "the date, time and place of 
such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A public body must list those topics the chair reasonably 
anticipates 48 hours in advance that the public body will discuss at its meeting. Id. The notice 
topics must be listed with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to 
be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a topic to include 
sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2011-44. 1  While it 
is not unlawful for a public body to consider unanticipated topics that were not included in the 
meeting notice, the Attorney General strongly encourages public bodies to postpone discussion 
of these items. See OML 2012-85; OML 2011-53. 
The Board posted a notice for its February 21, 2012 meeting on February 16, 2012. The 
third discussion topic was "Open Form [sic]," during which the Chair anticipated receiving the 
Town Administrator's report and announcing the "Police Dept. DOJ Grant." During the "Police 
Dept. DOJ Grant" portion of the meeting, Lt. Trombetta announced the grant award and then 
disclosed information about a complaint filed with the Commission concerning the conduct of a 
Rehoboth police officer. In the Board's April 20, 2012 response to the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Chair explains that he did not anticipate prior to the meeting that Lt. Trombetta 
would discuss the ethics complaint. Lt. Trombetta did not inform the Chair that he intended to 
discuss the ethics complaint at the Board's February 21, 2012 meeting. Because the topic was 
not reasonably anticipated by the Chair 48 hours before the meeting, the Board was not required 
I  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
2 
===PAGE 3===
Sincerely, 
Jol(athan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
to list it in the meeting notice and did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing or voting 
on the issue. 
2. The Board did not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Notify an Individual that 
he Would be Discussed in Open Session. 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). With the exception of certain executive session discussions, the Open 
Meeting Law does not require that public bodies provide additional notice of meetings to specific 
individuals or groups. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1); OML 2011-41. 
The Board discussed the ethics complaint concerning Sgt. Medeiros during an open 
session on February 21, 2012. Because the Board properly posted notice of the February 21, 
2012 meeting, and because no individualized notice is required, we find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law. We do not address whether any other local or state law may 
require such notice in this instance. 
3. We Decline to Review the Accuracy of Lt. Trombetta's Statements During the Board's 
February 21, 2012 Meeting.  
The complaint alleges that Lt. Trombetta's statements during the Board's February 21, 
2012 meeting "were false, misleading, and intended to politicize pending litigation." This 
allegation refers to the accuracy of substantive statements made during a meeting, which is a 
matter outside the scope of the Open Meeting Law. Therefore we decline to review this 
allegation. See OML 9-4-12; OML 5-21-12. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this 
letter to be inaccurate. 
cc: 	 Board of Selectmen 
cc: 	 Mr. Christopher Morra 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3 