===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 T EL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
September 15, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 114 
 
 
Danvers Planning Board 
 c/o David Fields, Director of Planning & Economic Development 
Danvers Conservation Commission 
 c/o Georgia Pendergast, Planner 
Town Hall  
1 Sylvan Street 
Danvers, MA 01923 
 
By e-mail only: dfields@danversma.gov; gpendergast@danversma.gov 
 
 RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaints  
 
Dear Mr. Fields and Ms. Pendergast:  
 
 This office received two compl aints from Matthew Duggan on August 24, 2020, and 
August 28, 2020, alleging that the Danvers Planning Board (the “Board”) and the Danvers 
Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A,   
§§ 18-25.
1  The first complaint was originally filed with the Planning Board on July 10; and 
Board Chair John Farmer responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated July 31.  The second 
complaint was originally filed with the Commission on July 14; and Commission Chair Peter 
Wilson responded, on behalf of the Commission, by letter dated July 31.  The complaints allege 
that the Board and the Commission “prevent[ed] the public from participating in real-time 
discussions” during their virtual open session meetings held on June 23 and July 9, respectively.   
 
 Following our review, we find th at neither the Board nor the Commission violated the 
Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaints, the Board’s and the Commission’s responses to the complaints, and the complaints 
filed with our office requesting further review.  In addition, we reviewed the notice and video 
recording of the Board’s June 23 meeting, and the notice and open session minutes of the 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Commission’s July 9 meeting, as well as a video recording of that July meeting.2  Finally, we 
spoke with the complainant by telephone on September 14, 2020. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On March 10, Governor Charles Baker declared a state of 
emergency in response to the public health emergency created by the outbreak of the 2019 novel 
Coronavirus (“COVID-19”).  See Exec. Order No. 591 (Mar. 10, 2020).  On March 12, Governor 
Baker issued an executive order temporarily suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting 
Law during the state of emergency.  See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”).  The Executive Order 
temporarily suspends the requirements under the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s 
Open Meeting Law regulations that 1) a quorum of a public body, including the chair, be 
physically present at the meeting location; and 2) meetings be held in locations that are 
physically accessible to the public.  The Executive Order relieves a public body from the 
requirement to hold its meetings in locations that are physically accessible to the public only if 
the public body provides adequate, alternative means of public access, meaning measures that 
provide transparency and permit timely and effective public access to the deliberations of the 
public body.  See Executive Order at Section (1).  All other provisions of the law and regulations 
remain in effect. 
 
On June 19, the Board posted notice of a meeting to held on June 23 at 7:00 P.M.  The 
meeting was to be held virtually and live streamed on YouTube and local television.  The notice 
listed the specific topics to be discussed, including two continued public hearings, three new 
public hearings, and approval of minutes.  The notice further indicated that public comments 
could be submitted by email or by telephone and included a specific email address 
(publiccomments@danversma.gov) and telephone number (978-777-0001 x. 2).   
 
The June 23 meeting was held as planned and Board members participated remotely; the 
meeting was broadcast in real-time on YouTube and local television.  During each public 
hearing, the Board heard from the applicants on their specific site plan approval or special permit 
application that was pending before the Board.  In addition, the Board accepted public comments 
via email and telephone and those comments were read into the record by a staff member and 
responded to in real-time during the meeting.    
 
On July 7, the Commission posted notice of a meeting to be held on July 9 at 7:00 P.M.  
The meeting was to be held virtually and live streamed on YouTube and local television.  The 
notice listed the specific topics to be discussed, including two continued public hearings, two 
new public hearings, and approval of minutes.  The notice further indicated that public comments 
could be submitted by email or by telephone and included a specific email address 
(publiccomments@danversma.gov) and telephone number (978-777-0001 x. 2).   
 
 
2 A video recording of the Board’s June 23 meeting can be found at: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KMtIRBDSi00; a video recording of the Commission’s July 9 meeting can be 
found at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bPM31-g77Ro. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The July 9 meeting was held as planned and Commission members participated remotely; 
the meeting was broadcast in real-time on YouTube and local television.  During each public 
hearing, the Commission heard from the applicants on their specific applications that were 
pending before the Board.  In addition, the Commission accepted public comments via email and 
telephone and those comments were read into the record by a staff member and responded to in 
real-time during the meeting.    
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement 
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, §20(a) (except 
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”). 
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as 
well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 
2020-100; OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54.3 
 
The Executive Order suspended the requirement that meetings be physically accessible to 
members of the public, but only if a public body provides adequate, alternative means for the 
public to access its meetings.  All other provisions of the law and regulations remain in effect, 
including the authorization of public participation.  Specifically, the Open Meeting Law does not 
require that a public body allow public participation, but rather provides that “[n]o person shall 
address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the 
request of the chair, be silent.”  G.L. c. 30A § 20(f).  As such, the law gives the chair of the 
public body discretion to decide whether to permit public comment during a meeting.  See OML 
2017-189; OML 2014-23; OML 2012-78.   
 
 Here, both the Board and Commission met remotely, provided rea l-time access to their 
respective meetings, and provided an email address and telephone number for the public to 
submit comments.  During their respective meetings, the Board and Commission received public 
comment through the email address and telephone number and read and responded to those 
comments throughout the meetings.  Although the Board and Commission did not specifically 
allow verbal comments from the public during the meeting, the Open Meeting Law does not 
require that a public body provide such opportunity but rather gives discretion to the chair of a 
public body to determine who may speak or otherwise participate at a meeting.  See OML 2014-
23; OML 2013-64; OML 2012-59.  Thus, the allegations that the Board and Commission only 
allowed public comment via email or telephone, rather than verbal, “real-time” participation, 
during their meetings would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law.   
 
Although the Open Meeting Law does not require that members of the public be 
permitted to speak or otherwise actively participate during a meeting, numerous laws in the 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Commonwealth require that a public hearing be held before the government takes certain action.4  
The specific procedures for notice and conduct of the public hearing are governed by the law 
requiring the hearing and such law may require opportunity for public comment.  Therefore, the 
provision in the Executive Order which requires “active, real-time participation by members of 
the public” may apply to public hearings.  See Executive Order at Section 1.5  However, the 
Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance only with the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The Open Meeting Law does not govern the requirements for conducting 
a public hearing.  Therefore, we decline to review, and offer no opinion on, whether any actions 
taken by the Board or Commission could be a violation of any public hearing law or regulation, 
including the above provision of the Executive Order.  See OML 2014-31; OML Declination 1-
25-18 (Rowley Planning Board); OML Declination 1-29-15 (Holbrook Planning Board).   
 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the Board and Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to allow for public participation in compliance with Section 3 of the Executive 
Order, which states that a public body which conducts a meeting remotely “shall ensure that any 
party entitled or required to appear before it shall be able to do so through remote means, as if 
the party were a member of the public body and participating remotely.”  See Executive Order at 
Section 3.  We disagree.  Both the Board and the Commission provided the public with adequate, 
alternative access to the remote meeting via a live broadcast on YouTube and local television.  
Each individual that had a pending application before the Board or the Commission appeared 
remotely before the respective public body and discussed his or her specific application.  
Because, as stated above, the Open Meeting Law does not “entitle[] or require[]” members of the 
public to appear before the public body during a meeting – although other laws might – we find 
that the Board and Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board and the Commission did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This letter does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office, 
the Board, or the Commission.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this determination. 
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
4 See, e.g., G.L. c. 30A, § 2 (state agencies must hold a hearing prior to the adoption, amendment, or repeal of 
regulations); G.L. c. 114, § 38 (a Commission of health shall hold a hearing before a tomb, burial ground or 
cemetery is closed); G.L. c. 121A, § 6 (a local planning Commission shall hold a hearing on a proposed 
redevelopment project); G.L. c. 40A, § 15 (a local Commission of appeal shall hold a hearing on any zoning appeal, 
application or petition).   
5 Section 1 of the Executive Order provides that “[w]here allowance for active, real-time participation by members 
of the public is a specific requirement of a general or special law or regulation, or a local ordinance or by-law, 
pursuant to which the proceeding is conducted, any alternative means of public access must provide for such 
participation.”   
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne   
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  Matthew Duggan: By e-mail only –  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
