===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 17, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 74 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Charles Sexton-Diranian 
Chair, Townsend Board of Selectmen 
csexton-diranian@townsendma.gov  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Sexton-Diranian: 
 
This office received a complaint from Cindy King on December 2, 2023,
1 alleging that 
the Townsend Board of Selectmen (the “Board”), and specifically its chair,2 violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or 
about October 2, and the Board responded by letter dated October 23. The complaint alleges that 
the notice for the Board’s September 5 meeting included insufficiently specific topics. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law where the 
notice topic “Comment of the Chair” was insufficiently specific. We find that the notice topic 
“Open and Close Special Town Meeting warrant” was sufficiently specific and that the 
discussions held naturally flowed from the topic. In reaching these determinations, we reviewed 
the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, the 
notice for the Board’s September 5 meeting, and video recordings of Board meetings held on 
September 5 and October 17.
3  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The complaint relates to a Board of Health meeting 
held on August 9 that was the subject of this office’s determination OML 2023-225, issued on 
December 14. On August 29, the Board of Selectmen met in executive session under G.L. c. 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person throughout. 
3 Video recordings of the Board’s meetings may be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/@townoftownsend2224/videos.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
30A, § 21(a)(1) to discuss the chair of the Board of Health. Thereafter, on August 31, the Board 
posted notice for a meeting to be held on September 5. Included on the notice were the topics 
“Comment of the Chair” and “Open and Close Special Town Meeting warrant.”  
 
During the September 5 meeting, under the topic “Comment of the Chair,” the Board’s 
Chair explained that he wanted to update the public regarding what had happened during the 
August 9 Board of Health meeting. The Chair explained that he and the Board of Selectmen did 
not condone the behavior of the Board of Health’s chair and that he had been working with the 
Town Administrator and Town Counsel regarding how to address the situation. The Chair 
continued, explaining that the Board of Selectmen met in executive session on August 29 to 
discuss the situation and that the Board of Selectmen had sent the Board of Health a letter 
recommending that it censure its chair and ask him to step down. The Chair further explained 
that the Board of Selectmen had decided to censure the Board of Health’s chair, and also 
described steps the Board of Health had taken in response to the situation. Finally, the Chair 
made reference to a letter regarding a town employee and an allegation of a hostile work 
environment. The Chair then asked if any other members of the Board wanted to speak on this 
issue. One member thanked the Chair for his comments and echoed the sentiment that the Board 
did not condone the behavior of the Board of Health’s chair. Another member noted that a 
warrant article that would be discussed later in the meeting was related to this situation and that 
the article proposed dissolving the elected Board of Health and creating an appointed Board of 
Health with rotating three-year terms.  
 
 Later in the meeting, under the topic “Open and Close Special Town Meeting warrant ,” 
the Town Administrator presented to the Board all seven articles proposed for the upcoming 
Special Town Meeting. The first article related to dissolving the elected Board of Health and 
creating an appointed Board of Health. During this discussion a member of the public raised 
concerns about how long such a process might take. The Board then discussed its options with 
respect to this issue and decided to include a second article related to the Board of Health such 
that the warrant would now include two articles related to the Board of Health, one that would 
require an election in addition to a vote by Town Meeting and one that would only require a vote 
by Town Meeting. Thereafter, the Board discussed the remaining warrant articles. After some 
additional discussion and public comment regarding the warrant articles related to the Board of 
Health, the Board voted to open and close the warrant, which would include the eight articles 
discussed during the meeting, subject to review by Town Counsel.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that notice be posted of every meeting of a public body.  
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Meeting notices must include, among other things, a list of the topics that 
the chair, and any other individual authorized to create the notice, reasonably anticipates 48 
hours in advance of the meeting will be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 
2022-206; OML 2020-152.4 A public body may discuss topics that were not included on the 
meeting notice if those topics truly were not reasonably anticipated 48 hours in advance of the 
meeting. See OML 2019-131; OML 2018-119.  
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
The topics for discussion must be listed with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise 
the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). A public body 
need not list each and every detail about a notice topic, nor anticipate on the notice the course of 
deliberation or the outcome of a discussion. See OML 2022-98; OML 2020-132; OML 2019-
134. However, notice topics must be described with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise 
the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting so that the public can make an informed 
decision about whether to attend the meeting in order to observe an anticipated discussion. See 
OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22; OML 2015-74. When reviewing a meeting notice 
for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting notice 
standing alone. See OML 2015-21; OML 2014-155. Rather, we review what was actually 
discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently detailed to make the public 
aware of the nature of the anticipated topics for discussion.  
 
 Based on the Board’s response and our review of its October 17 meeting during which it 
discussed the Open Meeting Law complaint, we find that it was reasonably anticipated that the 
Board’s Chair would make a comment during the September 5 meeting regarding the Board of 
Health. Indeed, it was in anticipation of such a comment that the topic “Comment of the Chair” 
was included on the notice for the September 5 meeting. We credit the Board’s assertion that the 
situation regarding the Board of Health was “fluid” and that the Board’s Chair did not know 
definitively whether he would make a comment—for example, during the October 17 meeting it 
was noted that had the Board of Health’s chair resigned, the Board’s Chair may not have made a 
comment at all. However, we find that it was reasonably anticipated that were the Board’s Chair 
to make a comment under the topic “Comment of the Chair” it would be about the Board of 
Health. We find that the notice topic “Comment of the Chair” was insufficiently specific to 
inform the public of the anticipated nature of the comment. See OML 2022-203. 
 
Next, we must determine whether the Board’s violation was, as the complainant urges, 
intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public 
body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. 
An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of 
the Law’s requirements or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law. Id. In the past five years, our office has not warned the Board against the violation 
found here; indeed, our office has not issued any determinations related to the Board in the past 
five years. The complaint asserts that the violation was intentional because “[t]he Chair knew 
what he was going to discuss when he posted the meeting 5 days prior to the meeting.” We 
decline to find an intentional violation where we have not previously advised the Board against 
the violation found here and because we find no other evidence supporting a finding that the 
Board acted with intent to violate Open Meeting Law.  
 
Finally, we address the allegation related to the notice topic “Open and Close Special 
Town Meeting warrant.” After reviewing a video recording of the Board’s September 5 meeting, 
we find that the notice topic was sufficiently specific. We find that it was reasonably foreseeable 
that the Board might discuss the Special Town Meeting warrant, including the proposed articles 
for the warrant, where the warrant was listed as a topic on the meeting notice. See OML 2023-
230 (finding that the notice topic “Set Date and Vote For A Special Election” sufficiently 
encompassed discussion of whether to call a special election); OML 2017-191 (explaining that it 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
is reasonably foreseeable “that a public body may take action and hold a vote following 
discussion of a topic listed on a meeting notice, even where the notice topic does not indicate the 
possibility of a vote”). Additionally, we have consistently found that where a public body 
anticipates reviewing all articles for a Town Meeting warrant rather than only certain articles, it 
is not required to separately identify each article on the meeting notice. See OML 2017-185; 
OML 2012-83. Finally, we find that the discussions held under the topic “Open and Close 
Special Town Meeting warrant” naturally flowed from the listed topic. Therefore, to the extent 
the complaint alleges that the Board discussed matters that were not included on the meeting 
notice, we find no violation. Although we find no violation with respect to the notice topic 
“Open and Close Special Town Meeting warrant,” we acknowledge the complainant’s concern 
that this topic may have suggested that the Board would engage in a quick procedural act rather 
than a substantive discussion.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
including an insufficiently specific topic on the notice for its September 5 meeting. We order the 
Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that a 
determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the Law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,      
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: R. Eric Slagle, Town Administrator (via email: ESlagle@townsendma.gov)  
Kathleen Spofford, Town Clerk (via email: kspofford@townsendma.gov) 
Cindy King (via email:  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
