===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
September 19, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 177 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Andrew J. Waugh, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
300 Crown Colony Dr # 410 
Quincy, MA 02169 
awaugh@mhtl.com 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Waugh, 
 
This office received a complaint from Attorney Beverly Loew, on behalf of James 
Caprarella and Linn Loew Caprarella, on July 25, 2022,
1 alleging that the Plainville School 
Committee (the “Committee”), and specifically its Chair Justin Alexander, violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was filed with the Committee on May 25, 
and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated June 13. We understand the 
complaint to allege that the Committee posted an insufficiently specific notice for its April 26 
meeting and that the Committee improperly discussed the reputation and character of the 
Caprarellas in open session instead of executive session.
2  
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2) and find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the 
ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee’s response, and the request for further review. We also reviewed the notice for the 
 
1 All dates are in 2022 unless otherwise stated. 
2 The Complainants also filed two Open Meeting Law complaints with the Committee on or about May 4. In the 
request for further review of the May 25 complaint, Attorney Loew asserts that the May 4 complaints have been 
“revived” and impliedly requests that we now review the May 4 complaints. For the reasons outlined in a July 6 
letter from our office to Attorney Loew, the May 4 complaints have been closed and we decline to review the 
allegations raised in those complaints. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Committee’s April 26 meeting and video recordings of the Committee’s April 5 and April 26 
meetings.3 
 
The Complaint stems from comments made by Chair Alexander during the Committee’s 
April 5 meeting regarding the Caprarellas’ service on a Superintendent Search Committee (the 
“Search Committee”), and the Committee’s decision to remove the Caprarellas from the Search 
Committee. The Committee held a meeting on April 26. After beginning the meeting, Chair 
Alexander announced that he had a public comment to make. He then explained that in response 
to questions from members of the public, he wanted to clarify the reasons and motivations for his 
comments on April 5 and his vote to remove the Caprarellas from the Search Committee. Chair 
Alexander also apologized to the Caprarellas if his comments hurt their feelings, specifically 
apologizing directly to Mr. Caprarella who was in attendance at the April 26 meeting. The notice 
for the April 26 meeting did not indicate that Chair Alexander would make such a statement and 
apology.  
 
First, the complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
provide notice that Chair Alexander would make a statement and apology regarding the 
Caprarellas during the April 26 meeting.
4 The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies 
post notice for every meeting 48 hours (excluding weekends and holidays) prior to the meeting. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Meeting notices must include a list of the topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting. Id. A “meeting” is “a deliberation by a public body 
with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A “deliberation” is 
“an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction . . .” Id.  
 
We have found in previous determinations that a discussion was outside a body’s 
jurisdiction where it concerned purely interpersonal dynamics, see OML 2013-51; a completed 
decision over which the body had no further authority, see OML 2017-88; and political 
statements on matters not likely to come before the body, see OML 2012-64.5 Specifically, we 
recently found that an email from one public body member to a quorum which complimented a 
fellow body member and criticized a member of the public, without mentioning any matters 
within the body’s jurisdiction, did not constitute deliberation. See OML 2021-178. Additionally, 
we have found that statements characterizing past acts for political purposes are not 
communications on public business within the jurisdiction of the public body. See OML 2012-
10. We find that Chair Alexander’s statement and apology was not a matter within the 
Committee’s jurisdiction and the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this 
regard. 
 
3 A video recording of the April 5 Committee meeting may be found at: https://plainville.northtv.net/plainville -
school-committee/plainville-school-committee-4-5-22. A video recording of the April 26 Committee meeting may 
be found at: https://plainville.northtv.net/plainville-school-committee/plainville-school-committee-4-27-22.  
4 To the extent the complaint alleges that the Caprarellas should have been provided with individual notice, the Open 
Meeting Law only requires individual notice when an individual will be discussed in executive session pursuant to 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”). Since Chair Alexander’s comments occurred in open session and not in 
executive session under Purpose 1, there was no requirement to provide the Caprarellas with individual notice.  
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s w ebsite, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Next, the complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing the Caprarellas in open session instead of executive session. Public bodies may enter 
a closed executive session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, 
including “[t]o discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than 
professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or 
complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.” 
G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”). Although the Open Meeting Law allows a public body to 
enter executive session for one or more of the ten enumerated purposes, it never requires a public 
body to enter executive session. See OML 2021-40; OML 2019-160; OML 2012-32 (“While a 
public body may choose to discuss an individual’s reputation and character behind closed doors, 
there is no requirement that such a discussion occur in executive session, and the subject of the 
discussion has no right under the Open Meeting Law to demand that they do so.”). Therefore, we 
find no violation with respect to the second allegation.  
 
Finally, the complaint and request for review make many assertions about the veracity of 
and motivations for Chair Alexander’s comments. Such matters fall outside the Open Meeting 
Law, and we therefore decline to review or opine on these matters.  
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by: Emily Johnson, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Beverly E. Loew, Esq. (via e-mail: bel@beverlyloew.com) 
Justin Alexander, Plainville School Committee Chair (via e-mail: 
jalexander@plainville.k12.ma.us) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
