===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 1, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 154 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Charles K. Murphy, Sr.  
Select Board Chair 
Town of Fairhaven Massachusetts 
cmurphy@fairhaven-ma.gov 
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Murphy: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on August 26, 2025,
1 alleging that 
the Fairhaven Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about August 10, and you responded 
on behalf of the Board by letter dated August 26. The complaint alleges that the notice for the 
Board’s July 28 meeting was insufficient where it included the topic “Annual Appointment of 
Election Workers” but did not list the names of the individuals being considered for 
appointment. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to list on the notice for its July 28 meeting the individuals to be considered for appointment as 
election workers. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, 
the Board’s response, the request for further review, and the notice for and minutes of the 
Board’s July 28 meeting.  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The town of Fairhaven’s official notice posting 
location is its municipal website, https://fairhaven-ma.gov/. The Board posted notice on the 
municipal website for a meeting to be held on July 28. Among other topics, the notice included 
the topic “Annual Appointment of Election Workers.” The meeting notice did not list the 
individuals to be appointed. The Board posted a separate meeting packet, which was 74 pages 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
long, and included at pages 23 to 24 a listing of the individuals to be considered for appointment 
as election workers.  
 
The Board held its July 28 meeting as scheduled. During the meeting, the Board voted 
“to approve the appointment of election workers as presented in accordance with Massachusetts 
General Laws Chapter 54, section 12, for a term from August 16, 2025, through August 15, 
2026.”  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, “[e]
 xcept in an emergency, . . . a public body shall 
post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Meeting notices must include, among other things, a list of the topics that the chair, and any 
other individual authorized to create the notice, reasonably anticipates 48 hours (excluding 
weekends and legal holidays) in advance of the meeting will be discussed at the meeting. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2022-206; OML 2020-152.2 The topics for discussion must be listed 
on the notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to include 
sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2019-70. We have 
consistently explained that the names of applicants for appointment or employment which are 
known 48 hours in advance of a meeting should be included on the meeting notice. See OML 
2025-88; 2022-217; 2019-24; OML 2016-150; OML 2013-163. 
 
 The complaint alleges that the notice for the Board’s July 28 mee
 ting was insufficient 
where it did not identify the individuals who would be considered for appointment as election 
workers. The Board asserts that the notice was sufficient because the public could learn the 
names of the individuals to be considered for appointment by accessing the Board’s full public 
meeting packet on the municipal website, which is the Town of Fairhaven’s designated notice 
posting location. Our office has previously explained that “even for public bodies that use a 
website as their official notice posting location, meeting notices should include on the notice 
itself the level of detail that the Open Meeting Law requires, without requiring that users 
navigate to separate pages or documents.” OML 2025-88; OML 2020-21; accord OML 2019-24, 
n. 4 (public bodies that post physical notices to a bulletin board must include all required 
information on the meeting notice itself, even when the notice is several pages long; it is not 
acceptable to direct members of the public to additional pages on file in the clerk’s office); see 
also OML 2024-9 (explaining that “a meeting notice itself must include the level of specificity 
that the Open Meeting Law requires, without requiring members of the public to search or sift 
through other documents or sources”); OML 2024-225, n. 4 (clarifying “that the list of 
candidates for appointment must be included within the notice document itself, . . . it is not 
sufficient to reference a separate list that is available elsewhere”).  
 
We f
ind that the notice for the Board’s July 28 meeting was insufficient where it did not 
list the individuals to be considered for appointment and instead required the public to navigate 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, www.mass.gov/the-open-
meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
to a separate document to obtain this information. Although we find a violation here, we 
commend the Board for publicly posting the meeting packet which contained a list of the 
proposed appointees, and we find no indication of an intent to conceal information from the 
public. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to list on the notice for its July 28 meeting the individuals to be considered for 
appointment as election workers. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with 
the Open Meeting Law and caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of 
an intent to violate the Law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
        
       Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by Cameron Sweeney, Legal Intern  
 
cc:  Andrew Romano, Vice Chair, Fairhaven Select Board  
(via email: aromano@fairhaven-ma.gov) 
Elisabeth E. Horan, Town Clerk (via email: ehoran@fairhaven-ma.gov) 
Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
