===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
February 19, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 18 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Francis J. LaRovere, III, Esq. 
Counsel for the Everett Housing Authority 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Attorney LaRovere: 
 
This office received two complaints from Steven Fitzgerald on December 1 and 24, 
2020,1 alleging that the Board of Commissioners of the Everett Housing Authority (the “Board”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed 
with the Board on November 2 and 11, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letters 
dated November 12 and 25. The complaints allege that 1) all four members of the Board did not 
comply with the certification requirements of the Open Meeting Law; and 2) the notice for the 
Board’s November 10 meeting was insufficient where it did not include information necessary 
for the public to access the meeting remotely.      
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
comply with the certification requirements of the Open Meeting Law. We find the Board did not 
violate the Law in the other way alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open 
Meeting Law complaints, the Board’s responses, the requests for further review, and the notice 
for the Board’s November 10 meeting.  
 
First, the Open Meeting Law requires that “within 2 weeks of qualification for office, all 
persons serving on a public body shall certify, on a form prescribed by the attorney general, the 
receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, regulations promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a 
 
1 All dates in this determination are in 2020, unless otherwise stated.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
copy of the educational materials prepared by the attorney general explaining the open meeting 
law and its application pursuant to section 19 . . .. The certification shall be evidence that the 
member of a public body has read and understands the requirements of the open meeting law and 
the consequences of violating it.” G.L. c. 30A § 20(h). The Open Meeting Law regulations 
further clarify that, upon a public body member’s qualification for office, the municipal clerk 
shall provide the required materials to the public body member and the public body member 
shall sign the certification within two weeks thereafter. 940 CMR 29.04(1)&(3). 
 
Each of the four members qualified as members of the Board on February 10 or 28. The 
Complainant filed a public records request on October 22 seeking copies of each member’s 
Certification of Receipt of Open Meeting Law Materials. Thereafter, each Board member signed 
a Certification of Receipt of Open Meeting Law Materials within one week of the public records 
request, and the Complainant was provided with copies of the certificates on November 2. 
Because the Board members failed to complete the required certifications within two weeks of 
qualifying for office, we find the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. Where the members 
took appropriate remedial action to ensure that the required certificates were completed within 
one week of the Complainant’s public records request, we do not order any additional relief. In 
particular, we reject the Complainant’s request that all four members of the Board be removed 
from office and that action taken by the Board be vacated as a result of the failure to sign the 
Certification forms. 
 
Next, the City of Everett has adopted its municipal website, cityofeverett.com, as its 
official notice posting location. A municipality may only have one official notice posting 
location and if it has adopted its website as its notice posting location, then that is the official 
location for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b)(3) & (c). We look to the 
official notice posting location to determine whether a public body has complied with the Law. 
Notice must be posted for every meeting containing, among other things, the “place” of the 
meeting, or, if the meeting will be held under the relief provided in Governor Baker’s March 12 
executive order temporarily suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting Law, see Order 
Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20, then the notice 
must include the “adequate, alternative means” by which the public may access the meeting 
remotely in real time. See OML 2020-102.2 
 
The November 11 complaint alleges that the notice for the Board’s November 10 meeting 
states that the meeting will be accessible via GoToMeeting, but does not include “information as 
to what thee [sic] meeting identification number is to log in to view the meeting.” A review of 
the notice for the Board’s November 10 meeting posted to the City’s website shows that the 
Board included detailed instructions for accessing the meeting via GoToMeeting, including 
providing the meeting ID number. The complaint does not allege that the information provided 
on the notice was inaccurate, or that the meeting was otherwise inaccessible. Because the notice 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
for the Board’s November 10 meeting included the necessary information for the public to access 
the meeting in real time, we find the Board did not violate the Law as alleged.3 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to comply with the certification requirements of the Open Meeting Law. We find the 
Board did not violate the Law in the other way alleged. We order the Board’s immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and note that future similar violations may be 
considered evidence of an intent to violate the law.  
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Domenic Puleo, Chair of the Board of Commissioners of the Everett Housing Authority 
(via email:   
 Stephen Kergo, Executive Director of the Everett Housing Authority (via e-mail: 
 
Steven Fitzgerald (via e-mail:  
  
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
3 Although not raised in the complaint, we note that the notice for a meeting where an Open Meeting Law complaint 
will be discussed should generally include identifying information about the particular complaint to be discussed. 
See OML 2019-32; OML 2013-82.  
