===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 12, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 224 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Gary P. Howayeck, Esq. 
Assistant Corporation Counsel 
City of Fall River 
ghowayeck@fallriverma.org  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Howayeck: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on June 27, 2022,1 alleging that 
the Fall River Licensing Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 27, and you responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated June 23. The complaint alleges that the Board failed to create 
and approve minutes for a site visit held on March 2.   
 
Following our review, we find that Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In 
reaching this determination we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s 
response, and the request for further review.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Meeting minutes must be created and 
approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Open Meeting Law itself does not define 
“timely manner.” However, the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations provide that 
“timely manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, 
whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.” 940 C.M.R. 
29.11 (2). Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next 
meeting. 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise noted. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to create and approve meeting minutes for a 
site visit held on March 2 for which notice was posted. The Board does not dispute that it failed 
to create and approve meeting minutes for its March 2 site visit but asserts that it had good cause 
for delay in creating and approving meeting minutes. In support of this assertion the Board states 
that the individual who normally creates meeting minutes for the Board was sick and so did not 
attend the March 2 site visit. The Board further states that the Chair of the Board was new to that 
position at the time of the site visit and so did not know that meeting minutes needed to be 
created for the site visit.  
 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to create and approve 
minutes for its March 2 site visit and that it has not shown good cause for delay in creating and 
approving such minutes. The responsibility for complying with the Open Meeting Law rests with 
public bodies and members of such bodies, not with individual public employees, such as 
administrative staff. See OML 2018-105.
2 If staff resources are not available to create minutes 
for a public body to approve, then public body members must take on this responsibility to 
ensure compliance with the Law. See OML 2018-111. 
 
 Next, w e must determine whether the Board’s violation was, as the complainant urges, 
intentional. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body 
or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. An 
intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with intent to violate the law or 
deliberate ignorance of the law’s requirements, or where a public body has been previously 
advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting Law. Id. We have previously found that 
the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely approve a set of meeting minutes, 
though that instance did not involve minutes for a site visit. OML 2020-4. In the instant case, the 
Board has explained that the new Chair was unaware that the March 2 site visit was considered a 
meeting for which minutes needed to be created. We credit the Board’s assertion and find that 
the Board did not intentionally violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to create and approve minutes for its March 2 site visit. We order the Board’s immediate 
and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar future violations 
could be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. Additionally, we order the Board, if it 
has not yet done so, to create and approve minutes for its March 2 site visit.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Fall River Licensing Board (via e- mail: licensingboard@fallriverma.org) 
Patrick Higgins (via email: )  
Fall River Clerk (via email: city_clerks@fallriverma.org) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
