===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
February 19, 2013 
OML 2013 — 16 
Brian D. Fitzgerald 
Director of Health 
Holyoke Board of Health 
City Hall Annex 
20 Korean Veterans Plaza 
Holyoke, MA 01040-5037 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Fitzgerald: 
This office received a complaint from Kevin Jourdain, dated September 7, 2012, alleging 
that the Holyoke Board of Health (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about July 31, 2012, and the 
Board responded to the original complaint by letter dated August 8, 2012. In his complaint, Mr. 
Jourdain alleges that during its July 9, 2012 meeting (the "meeting"), the Board discussed and 
took action on a topic that was not listed in its meeting notice. Mr. Jourdain requests that this 
office order the Board to rescind its vote and properly notice the topic for a future meeting. 
We reviewed the July 31, 2012 complaint; your response to the complaint on behalf of 
the Board, dated August 8, 2012; the September 7, 2012 complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review; and a letter from the complainant to our office, dated October 31, 
2012. We reviewed the meeting notices and minutes for the July 9 and August 14, 2012 
meetings. We also spoke by telephone with Board Chair Katherine Liptak, Brian Fitzgerald, 
Director of the Board of Health, and Katie Gallagher, Assistant Director of the Board of Health. 
Following our review, we fmd that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law because the 
meeting notice did not contain sufficient detail about a reasonably anticipated topic of 
discussion. We do not fmd the violation to be intentional, however, but rather a 
misunderstanding of the Law's requirements by administrative staff. Furthermore, we find that 
the Board took appropriate steps to remedy the violation following the filing of this complaint. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. On July 9, 
2012, the Board convened a meeting in open session. The meeting notice and agenda, posted 
with the municipal clerk on July 5, 2012, listed several topics for discussion, including "New 
0 
===PAGE 2===
Business: (Informational/Verbal): 1. Needle Kiosk Update/ Other Programs." Various local 
public officials and members of other state agencies and organizations attended the meeting, 
including Holyoke's Mayor, Police Chief, City Solicitor, Superintendent of the Department of 
Public Works, as well as the President and CEO of Tapestry Health, the Director of the Center 
for Education Prevention and Action, and the Director of the Bureau of Infectious Disease at the 
Department of Public Health. 
When the Board reached the topic, "Other Programs," Tim Purington from Tapestry 
Health began a discussion regarding the Needle Exchange Program (the "Program"), followed by 
presentations from representatives of health organizations and local public officials. According 
to the meeting minutes, all of these participants supported the Program, although specific details 
about their presentations are not included in the minutes. Chair Katherine Liptak then made a 
motion "to approve a comprehensive Needle Exchange Program for the City of Holyoke based 
on the health and safety of the citizens of Holyoke," which was unanimously approved. 
Immediately following the vote, Commissioner Robert Mausel noticed that he did not see any 
City Councilors present and inquired whether they had been notified of the meeting, to which 
Mayor Alex Morse responded that they were aware of the meeting. Mayor Morse then pledged 
his full support to implement the Program. 
During individual telephone conversations with our office, neither Chairman Liptak, Mr. 
Fitzgerald nor Ms. Gallagher could identify if and how the various public officials and 
representatives from various health organizations were invited to the July 9, 2012 meeting. 
Chairman Liptak acknowledged that she anticipated that the Program would be discussed at the 
meeting, however. Mr. Fitzgerald generally approves the final draft of the Board's meeting 
notices, but he was away on vacation and therefore was unavailable to approve this particular 
notice. Accordingly, the Board's administrative assistant drafted the notice, which was approved 
by Ms. Gallagher. Chairman Liptak did not assist in the drafting of the meeting notice. Upon 
Mr. Fitzgerald's return to work on the morning of the meeting, he realized that the Program was 
not specifically listed in the meeting notice and immediately discussed the issue with the 
administrative assistant and Ms. Gallagher, who explained that they considered it part of the 
discussion of "Other Programs" regarding needle cleanup. Just prior to the meeting, which 
began at noon, Mr. Fitzgerald notified the Commissioners about the notice issue, but the 
Commissioners did not consider postponing the meeting at that point. 
Upon the filing of this complaint, the Board convened a meeting in open session on 
August 14, 2012. The meeting notice, posted with the municipal clerk on August 8, 2012, listed 
the following topics for discussion under the heading "New Business": "1. Rescind vote on July 
9, 2012, on the approval of the Needle Exchange Program; 2. Presentation by Mass. 
Department of Public Health regarding Needle Exchange Program; 3. Public Comments on 
Needle Exchange Program; 4. Board Vote on Needle Exchange Program." Chair Liptak 
opened the meeting by explaining that a complaint was filed for failure to properly identify "the 
agenda item for discussion on the July 9, 2012 agenda" and offered an apology. Dr. Robert 
Mausel then made a motion to "rescind the vote of July 9, 2012 on the Needle Exchange 
Program." 1  Mr. Cranston from the Department of Health then conducted a presentation on 
Needle Exchange Programs, followed by a presentation by Dr. Stephen Jones, Retired Senior 
1  According to the meeting minutes, the Board did not explain the reason for the rescission, nor did the Board 
discuss how it would respond to this complaint, beyond disclosing that it had been filed with the Board. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Scientist at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention. 
Mayor Morse and Police Chief Neiswanger attended and participated at the meeting, along with 
City Councilors and members of the public, who expressed their opinions regarding the Program, 
however these individuals and opinions are not detailed in the minutes. The Board then voted 
unanimously to approve the Program. 
Acknowledging that the Program was controversial, Chairman Liptak stated that the 
Board was not attempting to "hide something or avoid confrontation" and insisted that despite 
the fact that historically the Board held its meetings at noon, the Board purposely convened its 
August 14, 2012 meeting at 5 P.M. to ensure that any interested member of the public would be 
able to attend after the work day ended. Furthermore, Chairman Liptak assured this office that 
since the filing of this complaint, they have instituted new checks and balances for the drafting 
and approval of meeting notices. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to post notice in advance of every 
meeting. "Except in an emergency, in addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public 
body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. ... Notice shall be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and shall contain the date, time, and place of such meeting and a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03. The Open Meeting Law does not require that the chair of a public 
body guess what will occur during a meeting, but the chair does need to list those topics that he 
or she reasonably anticipates will be discussed. See  OML 2011-36; OML 2011-23; OML 2011-
13.2  We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's 
discussion. OML 2011-44. 
The Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to list a topic with sufficient 
specificity on its meeting notice. The topic, "Needle Kiosk/Other Programs," did not offer the 
public a full understanding of the specific programs to be discussed. The Board should have 
specifically identified each program and the anticipated discussion, including listing any 
anticipated presentations by outside individuals, particularly because the Program was 
controversial and of significant public interest to the community. We decline, however, to order 
the Board to rescind its vote, as requested by the complainant, since the Board voluntarily did so 
during its August 14, 2012 meeting. The Board remedied the violation by properly posting a 
notice that sufficiently listed the anticipated topics for its August 14, 2012 meeting, by 
rescinding the July 9, 2012 vote during this meeting, and by opening the discussion for public 
comment before the Board reconsidered its vote to approve the Program. 
As a final matter, we note that the July 9 and August 14, 2012 meeting minutes did not 
comply with certain requirements under the Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting Law 
requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a 
2  Open. Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
3 
===PAGE 4===
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a 
member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear 
understanding of what occurred. OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. Here, the July 9, 2012 meeting 
minutes state that various participants gave presentations, but do not include any detail about 
those presentations. Likewise, according to the August 14, 2012 meeting minutes, City 
Councilors and members of the public offered their opinions about the Program, but the minutes 
do not identify any specific individuals or the content of their opinions.3  While it is not 
necessary to record the comments of every speaker, and we acknowledge the difficulty of doing 
so where there are many speakers whose remarks may even overlap, if a particular individual 
speaks at some length or is the only one to offer an argument for or against a proposal, that 
person and his or her comments should be identified in the minutes. OML 2012-29. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law because the meeting notice did 
not contain sufficient detail about a reasonably anticipated topic of discussion. We therefore 
order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that future 
similar conduct may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this 
letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Kevin Jourdain 
Holyoke Board of Health 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3  We also note that the minutes do not include a list of the documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, as 
required under the Open Meeting Law. See  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2012-42. 
4 