===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 18, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 200 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Kimberly Roche, Esq. 
Dupere Law Offices, P.C. 
94 North Elm Street 
Suite 307 
Westfield, MA 01085 
kimberly@duperelawoffices.info  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Roche: 
 
This office received a complaint from Erin McCarthy on June 6, 2025,
1 alleging that the 
Pioneer Valley Chinese Immersion Charter School Board of Trustees’ (the “Board”) Trusteeship 
Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about May 15, and you responded on behalf 
of the Board by letter dated May 30. The complaint alleges that the Committee improperly 
deliberated outside of a noticed meeting regarding the selection of nominees to the full Board.
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee improperly deliberated outside of a 
noticed meeting when three letters of recommendation written by the chair of the Board, who 
also serves on the Committee, were circulated to the Committee via email. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, and the 
request for further review and additional documents provided therewith. We also reviewed the 
notice for and a video recording of the Committee’s April 17 meeting. Finally, we communicated 
by email and telephone with the Board’s legal counsel.
3 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The complaint includes an additional allegation; however, in the request for further review the Complainant 
specifically requested review only of the allegation described above. 
3 The Committee’s April 17 meeting can be found at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2bNQbtDOtLQ&t=94s.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. At the time of the events of the complaint, the Board 
was seeking applicants for appointment to the Board. The Committee’s roll was to review the 
applicants and make a recommendation to the Board. The Committee’s membership consists of 
the following individuals, all of whom also serve on the Board: Charles Bagley, Frank 
Soleimani, Cynthia Farmer, Greg Rota, and Ann Kochis.  
 
On April 14, the Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on April 17. Among 
other matters, the notice included the following topic: 
 
Application Reviews  
 
1. Vote regarding applicants to be interviewed – vote(s).
4 
  
In total, seven individuals submitted applications for appointment to the Board. Mr. 
Bagley, who served on the Committee and is the Board’s chair, wrote letters of recommendation 
in support of three of the applicants, each of whom had been or was currently involved with the 
Board in some capacity: Elizabeth Larivee, Hsinpei Normand, and Chung Liu. On April 15, Mr. 
Bagley emailed his three letters of recommendation to the School’s executive director requesting 
that the letters be forwarded to the Committee. The three letters of recommendation, as well as 
application materials for all seven candidates, were sent to the full Committee and the Board by 
email on April 15 and 16.    
 
The Committee met on April 17 as scheduled. During the meeting the Committee’s chair, 
Frank Soleimani, read aloud the name of each candidate, confirmed that all Committee members 
had reviewed the application materials, explained that the Board was looking for three new 
members, and asked for nominations. Mr. Bagley nominated Chung Liu and Elizabeth Larivee, 
and Mr. Rota nominated Hsinpei Normand. Thereafter the Committee discussed proper voting 
procedure and clarified what the Committee had been asked to do. Finally, the Committee voted 
in favor of recommending to the Board the three candidates who had received nominations. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by 
 
4 Although not raised in the complaint, we remind the Committee that meeting notices must include a list of the 
topics anticipated for discussion and that this list must include sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public 
of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We have consistently stated 
that to comply with the specificity requirement, the names of candidates and applicants for employment or 
appointment which are known 48 hours in advance of a meeting should be listed on a meeting notice. See , e.g., 
OML 2023-15; OML 2022-219; OML 2020-80; OML 2019-24; OML 2018-94; OML 2016-150; OML 2013-163; 
OML 2011-23. Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The 
law defines “deliberation” as  
 
an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, 
between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction; provided, however, that “ deliberation” shall not include the 
distribution of meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other 
procedural meeting [ information] or the distribution of reports or documents that 
may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed. 
 
Id. (emphasis added).  
 
While a member of a public body may distribute a document for discussion at a meeting 
by email, the member may not include their opinion in the document. See OML 2019-75; OML 
2012-84. Expression of an opinion on matters within a body’s jurisdiction to a quorum of a 
public body is a deliberation, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 2013-29; 
OML 2013-27; OML 2012-15. Additionally, a public body may not use a non-member to serve 
as a conduit or otherwise facilitate deliberation between or among a quorum of the public body. 
See OML 2020-144 (“A public body may not use a non-member, such as a staff member, to 
facilitate a deliberation or communicate on matters that the Board would otherwise be required to 
save for discussion at an open meeting.”); see also, District Attorney for the Northern District v. 
School Committee of Wayland, 451 Mass. 561, 570-571 (2009) (“Governmental bodies may not 
circumvent the requirements of the open meeting law by conducting deliberations via private 
messages, whether electronically, in person, over the telephone, or in any other form.”). 
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee must have deliberated outside of a properly 
noticed meeting regarding the candidates because there was an “absence of deliberation” 
regarding the applicants during the April 17 meeting. The complaint also notes Mr. Bagley’s 
letters of recommendation. In response, the Board explains that each member of the Committee 
had the applicants’ resumes and application materials in advance and reviewed them prior to 
attending the April 17 meeting. The Board further asserts that Committee members did not 
discuss the applicants with each other outside of a properly noticed meeting. However, in follow-
up communications with our office, the Board acknowledges that Mr. Bagley’s letters of 
recommendation were circulated to the full Committee prior to the April 17 meeting. We find 
that the Committee improperly deliberated outside of a noticed meeting when Mr. Bagley’s 
letters of recommendation, which necessarily contained his opinions about the applicants, were 
circulated via email to the Committee. See OML 2022-145 (finding a violation where a proposed 
response written by the council president and containing her opinions was circulated via email to 
the full council as part of a meeting packet); OML 2014-148. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by improperly deliberating outside of a noticed meeting when Mr. Bagley’s letters of 
recommendation were circulated to the full Committee via email. We order the Committee’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that similar future 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. Additionally, we order the 
Committee, within 30 days of the date of this letter, to release to the public Mr. Bagley’s letters 
of recommendation and the emails circulating the same to the Committee. The Committee may 
release these materials to the public by reading them aloud or referencing them during an open 
session meeting and then attaching them to the minutes of that meeting.5   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board, the 
Committee, or our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Frank Soleimani , Chair, Trusteeship Committee (via email: )  
Charles Bagley, Chair, Pioneer Valley Chinese Immersion Charter School Board of 
Trustees (via email: ) 
Richard Alcorn, Executive Director, Pioneer Valley Chinese Immersion Charter School 
(via email: ralcorn@pvcics.org) 
Erin McCarthy (via email: ) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
5 The complaint requests that, as remedial action, the Committee amend the minutes of its April 17 meeting. Where 
the sufficiency of the minutes was not directly raised in the complaint and where the minutes before us are marked 
“draft,” we do not order the requested remedial action. However, we note that the draft minutes of the April 17 
meeting misidentify one of the nominees, fail to properly record the roll call vote where they do not list each 
member and how they voted, and do not accurately summarize what occurred  during the meeting. With respect to 
accuracy, the draft minutes state that “[a]fter carefully reviewing all applications . . . the Trusteeship Committee 
voted . . . .”  Although it may be the case that the Committee members carefully reviewed the applications 
independently outside of the meeting, this review did not take place during the meeting and so should not be 
included in the minutes. See OML 2025-18 (“Because the minutes must accurately capture the discussions that 
actually took place, it is inappropriate to include information in meeting minutes that was not discussed at a 
meeting.”). If the final approved minutes of the Committee’s April 17 meeting are deficient in these same ways, we 
encourage the Committee to amend the minutes to correct these deficiencies. 
