===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
December 22, 2021 
 
OML 2021 - 198 
 
 
Colleen M. Mejia 
City Solicitor 
Everett City Hall 
484 Broadway 
Everett, MA 02149 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Attorney Mejia: 
 
This determination addresses two complaints from Steven Fitzgerald alleging that the 
Everett City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. In 
total, Mr. Fitzgerald has filed approximately 80 separate Open Meeting Law complaints with 
public bodies in Everett over the past year. The complaints addressed herein are dated May 4 and 
27,1 and allege that the Council failed to properly respond to prior Open Meeting Law 
complaints that Mr. Fitzgerald filed with the Council.2   
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaints and communicating with the City Solicitor.3 We find that 
the Council violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged.   
 
The Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law Regulations 
require that, within 14 business days after receiving a complaint, a public body must meet to 
review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the 
complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23; 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 
2 Because of the volume of complaints that Mr. Fitzgerald has filed with the Everett City Council and other public 
bodies in Everett, many on the same date and/or raising similar allegations, we have numbered the complaints for 
tracking purposes. This determination addresses complaints 37 and 38. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
940 CMR 29.05(5). The public body shall simultaneously provide the Attorney General with a 
copy of the complaint, the response, and a description of any remedial action taken. 
940 CMR 29.05(5). A public body may delegate authority to respond to a complaint to legal 
counsel or other individual such as a town administrator, but the public body must first meet to 
review the complaint. OML 2020-164 (“The Board may review the complaint at a meeting and 
then authorize the Administrator to prepare and send the response, or the Administrator may 
receive the complaint and draft a response for the Board to review at a meeting, but the Board 
may not remove itself entirely from the process.”). 
 
The May 4 complaint alleges that the City Solicitor responded to a complaint filed with 
the Council on or about April 194 before the Council met to review the complaint and delegate 
authority to respond. The Council does not deny that it failed to meet to review the complaint 
and to delegate authority to the City Solicitor prior to the City Solicitor responding on the 
Council’s behalf by letter dated May 3. Therefore, we find that the Council violated the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged in the May 4 complaint.   
 
The May 27 complaint alleges that the Council failed to respond to a May 4 complaint. 
The Council has not disputed that it failed to respond to the May 4 complaint. Therefore, we find 
that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged in the May 27 complaint.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to properly respond to Open Meeting Law complaints. We order the Council’s immediate 
and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law. We now consider the complaints addressed 
by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints 
that may be pending with the Council or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at 
(617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
  
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Steven Fitzgerald (via e-mail:  
 Wayne Matewsky, Everett City Council President (via e-mail: 
   
Everett City Council (via e-mail:  
 
4 The May 4 complaint states that the complaint was filed with the Council on April 16. Based on the information 
provided to us by the complainant and the Council, we believe that the May 4 complaint relates to a complaint dated 
April 19 with an alleged violation date of April 12. 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 