===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 19, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 164 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Jeffrey T. Blake, Esq. 
KP Law 
jblake@k-plaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Blake: 
 
This office received a complaint from Paulette Kuzdeba on October 15, 2021,
1 alleging 
that the Hadley Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about July 14, and you responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated August 19. The complaint alleges that the Board deliberated 
outside of a posted meeting regarding whether to reduce the membership of the Hadley 
Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) and whether to reappoint to the Commission Ms. 
Kuzdeba and another member, Steve Szymkowicz. 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties whiles we investigated this matter. Following 
our investigation and review, we find that the Board deliberated outside of a posted meeting by 
email on one occasion but do not otherwise find sufficient evidence to conclude that the Board 
deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open 
Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, additional 
documents and information provided by the Complainant and the Board, and a video recording 
of the Board’s meetings held on May 12 and July 7.
2 We also communicated with Counsel for 
 
1 All dates are in 2021 unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the Board’s May 12 meeting can be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lG4KuWiEs8A&list=PLuAxVh4DPo5z42FhMfNCjyYMONvwEkTp_&index=
33.  A video recording of the Board’s July 7 meeting can be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=djC22GSuXaA&feature=youtu.be. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
the Board3 on numerous occasions seeking additional information. Finally, we conducted a 
phone interview with Board member Joyce Chunglo. 
 
At the outset, we note that our review is limited to whether the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a posted meeting; we do not review, and take no position 
on, whether the Board was authorized to or justified in reducing the number of Commission 
members and not reappointing Ms. Kuzdeba. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Complaint stems from a July 7 Board meeting, 
and events surrounding that meeting, in which the Board voted to reduce the membership of the 
Commission and did not reappoint Ms. Kuzdeba, who had served on the Commission for many 
years and was the Commission’s chair at the time.  
 
The Board is a five-member public body; therefore, three members constitute a quorum.   
On May 8 and 11, the Board and the Board’s then-Chair, David Fill,
4 received three emails from 
citizens expressing frustration or concerns regarding the Commission. On May 12 the Board held 
a meeting, and during public comment heard from a citizen regarding his dissatisfaction with the 
Commission. In response, Board member Joyce Chunglo asked the citizen to send his concerns 
to the Board in writing and noted that the Board was gathering information for future use. Board 
member John Waskiewicz
5 then stated that he watched two prior Commission meetings and that 
he believed the Commission was having some problems. Mr. Waskiewicz also stated that he 
wished to see the Commission membership reduced from seven members to five. Ms. Chunglo 
spoke a few more times briefly and a few more citizens commented regarding the first citizen’s 
complaints.    
 
On July 1, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on July 7 at 6:00 p.m. The 
notice read, in relevant part, 
 
7. Old Business  
7.1 Boards and Committees - Annual Appointments Renewals - Additional . . .  
 Conservation Commission - Paulette Kuzdeba  
          Stephen Szymkowicz  
The Select Board will also discuss the lowering of the numbers of members of the 
Conservation Commission from 7 to 5.    
 
 On July 6, Ms.  Chunglo called Ms. Kuzdeba and discussed the above notice topic 
as it related to the Commission. Although Ms. Kuzdeba and Ms. Chunglo disagree about 
the substance of the conversation, both agree that the conversation took place. Ms. 
Kuzdeba contends that Ms. Chunglo stated during the call that the Board had already 
decided to reduce the number of Commission members and that, therefore, there was no 
reason to reappoint Ms. Kuzdeba or Mr. Szymkowicz. Ms. Chunglo contends that she did 
 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
4 Mr. Fill no longer serves on the Board. 
5 Mr. Waskiewicz no longer serves on the Board. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
not say that the Board had already decided to reduce the Commission, but rather that she 
simply informed Ms. Kuzdeba that this topic would be discussed at the next day’s 
meeting.  
 
 On July 7 at 8:56 a.m., Board member Jane Nevinsmith
6 emailed the Town 
Administrator stating, in part, “attached is from the state regarding conservation 
commissions. It appears that this is a town meeting issue, not a select board choice. Do 
you want me to let David know, or can you do that?” Attached to the email was a 
document including an excerpt from the Massachusetts Association of Conservation 
Commissions’ handbook regarding the size of, and changes to the size of, conservation 
commissions. The document also included a comment about the creation of the 
Commission. That same day, at 3:19 p.m., the Town Administrator forwarded Ms. 
Nevinsmith’s email to Chair Fill. Mr. Fill then forwarded the email from the Town 
Administrator to Mr. Waskiewicz at 4:18 p.m., stating “Jane sent to [the Town 
Administrator]. I read that as 3-7 members which we are keeping 5 so we are following 
town meeting vote. If we need to appoint 7 then we keep Sinky, get rid of [Ms. Kuzdeba] 
and appoint Joe Boisvert for 7.”  
  
On July 7 the Board convened its meeting. In total, there was approximately one 
hour of discussion related to reducing the size of the Commission and reappointment of 
Ms. Kuzdeba and Mr. Szymkowicz. During this time, the Board heard from members of 
the public, the Commission, and Commission staff. Members of the Board discussed the 
topic as well. Ms. Nevinsmith expressed her concern that the Board did not have 
authority to reduce the membership of the Commission and advocated that the Board not 
make a decision that evening. Other Board members expressed their support for reducing 
the number of Commission members and for not reappointing Ms. Kuzdeba and Mr. 
Szymkowicz, specifically noting that they had received complaints about the 
Commission. Throughout the discussions, Ms. Kuzdeba spoke a few times and there was 
back and forth regarding whether the Commission had ever been made aware of the 
complaints that supposedly formed part of the basis for reducing the size of the 
Commission and not reappointing Ms. Kuzdeba and Mr. Szymkowicz. 
 
Ultimately, the Board voted to reappoint Mr. Szymkowicz, but not Ms. Kuzdeba, 
and to reduce the Commission by one member.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law states, in relevant part, that “[e]xcept in an 
emergency, . . . a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Except when 
convened in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.” G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(a). 
 
 
6 Ms. Nevinsmith now serves as Chair of the Board. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any ma
tter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” 
broadly as any “oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, 
between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id. 
A “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id. A one-way 
communication from one public body member to a quorum on matters within the body’s 
jurisdiction constitutes deliberation for purposes of the Open Meeting Law, even if no other 
public body member responds. See OML 2016-104; OML 2015-33; OML 2012-73.
7 A public 
body may not engage in serial communication whereby a quorum communicates in a non-
contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a subject within the public body’s jurisdiction. 
See OML 2015-3; OML 2012-84; OML 2011-27; McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 
(2008) (holding that private serial communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law 
and may not be used to circumvent the intent of the law).  
 
We find
 that the Board deliberated outside of notice meeting on July 7 when Mr. Fill 
forwarded Ms. Nevinsmith’s email regarding the Board’s authority to reduce the size of the 
Commission to Mr. Waskiewicz, thus causing the communication to reach a quorum of the 
Board. We order the Board, if it has not already done so, to release to the public the full chain of 
July 7 emails. 
 
We received inconsistent explanations from Board members regarding whether additional 
communi
cations concerning the membership of the Commission occurred. Although we are 
concerned that the Board may have further discussed the membership of the Commission, 
following our investigation, we were unable to find sufficient evidence of improper deliberation.  
We note that, based on correspondence reviewed in the course of our investigation, it appears 
that Mr. Fill may have had a practice of communicating with Board members individually, 
including by phone, regarding matters within the Board’s jurisdiction, including discussing 
upcoming votes, in a way that clearly would violate the Open Meeting Law. We take this 
opportunity to remind the Board that deliberation is broadly defined as any communication 
between or among a quorum of the Board on any business within its jurisdiction and that 
deliberation may only take place during a meeting for which notice has been properly posted and 
which is open to the public, unless a lawful executive session has been convened. Furthermore, 
impermissible deliberation can occur in a serial manner, including by calling a quorum of a 
public body individually to convey the same information or to poll members. See OML 2011-27; 
OML 2020-160. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board improperly deliberated via email 
July 7 when Chair Fill forwarded an email from one Board member to a third Board member. 
We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we 
caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law and 
may result in the imposition of $1,000 civil penalty per intentional violation. Additionally, we 
 
7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
order the Board, if it has not already done so, to release to the public the full chain of July 7 
emails.8   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Jane Nevinsmith, Chair, Hadley Select Board (via email: jnevinsmith@hadleyma.org) 
Paulette Kuzdeba (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
8 The Board may release the chain of July 7 emails either by reading them aloud at an open meeting or by attaching 
the emails to the minutes of an open meeting. 
