===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
January 28, 2025 
 
OML 2025 – 7 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch St., Boston MA 02110 
 
GCorbo@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
 
This office received a complaint from Neil Johnsen on December 4, 2024, alleging that 
the North Reading Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 24.
1  You responded 
on behalf of the Board by letter dated October 9.  The complaint alleges that the Board violated 
the Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a public meeting.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response, emails the Board sent to the complainant, and the complainant’s request for further 
review. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On September 17, the Board sent the complainant an email, 
notifying him that a public hearing on his appeal of the denial of his application for a septic 
installer’s license was scheduled for September 25.  The email further stated that his hearing was 
allotted 15 minutes.  On September 24, the Board sent an email to the complainant, advising him 
that the public hearing was rescheduled to October 2.  The email further informed Mr. Johnsen 
that 30 minutes was allotted for his appeal.  The Board did not meet between September 17 and 
September 24. 
 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2024. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when convened in executive session, “all 
meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A “meeting” is 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; . . . .”  Id.  
 
Mr. Johnsen alleges that the Board necessarily deliberated outside of a posted meeting 
because the rules of the public hearing were revised between the date of the first email from the 
Board, September 17, and the date of the second email, September 24, a time span during which 
the Board did not hold a posted meeting.  The complainant further alleges that the Board sought 
legal advice outside of a posted meeting during this period.  The Board denies that a quorum met 
between the dates of the two emails in question or otherwise discussed the hearing or its rules.  
Rather, the Board maintains that its Chair established the public hearing rules in consultation 
with counsel and without any input from his fellow Board members.  Absent sufficient evidence 
to the contrary, we credit a public body’s account of the facts.  See OML 2023-121; 2 OML 
2017-93; OML 2016-141; see also LaPointe v. License Board of Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 
(1983) (“There is every presumption in favor of the honesty and sufficiency of the motives 
actuating public officers in actions ostensibly taken for the general welfare.”)  We find, 
therefore, that the Board did not meet outside of a posted meeting between September 17 and 
September 24.     
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,  
 
   
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 

===PAGE 3===
cc:
Neil Johnsen (via email:
Chairman of the Board of Health (via email:
North Reading Town Administrator (via email: mgilleberto@northreadingma.gov)
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final