===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
January 24, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 11 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Benjamin M. Coyle, Esq. 
Bacon Wilson, P.C. 
33 State Street  
Springfield, MA 01103 
 
bcoyle@baconwilson.com 
    
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Coyle:  
 
This office received a complaint from Roxanne Gunther on December 29, 2023, alleging 
that the Monson Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on October 5.
1  You responded on behalf 
of the Board by letter dated October 24.  The complainant alleges that notice of the Board’s 
September 12 meeting was insufficiently specific as it did not reference an anticipated discussion 
to temporarily relocate the fire department to a building known as the House of Art, and to 
subsequently demolish the House of Art.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the ways 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint, the response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed the notice and 
the minutes of the September 12 meeting and viewed a video recording of the September 12 
meeting.2  Lastly, we reviewed minutes of the Board’s October 10 meeting. 
 
  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2023. 
2 The recording may be accessed at https://m-pact.tv/maestrov/app/client/webSite/index.php?s=3&category=2.  The 
relevant discussion begins at approximately 1:47. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
  
We find the facts as follows.  The r evised notice of the Board’s September 12 meeting 
included the following item under “New Business:” “Temporary Housing Fire Department 
Renovation – Chief Harris and Director Larivee.”  At the September 12 meeting, Fire Chief 
Brian Harris and Facility Director Justin Larivee addressed the Board regarding use of the old 
Town Hall Annex building, also known as the House of Art, for temporary housing during 
renovations of the fire department building, which is located behind it.  At the time of the 
meeting, the House of Art was occupied by the Arts Council.  On behalf of the fire department, 
Chief Harris also requested demolition of the House of Art upon completion of the renovations.  
Demolition would facilitate access to the fire department building, according to the Chief.  
Director Larivee spoke to some of the challenges and cost of bringing the House of Art up to 
code.     
 
Prior to the September 12 meeting, Chief Harris had provided a packet to the Board, 
outlining both requests.  After the presentation by Chief Harris and Director Larivee, the Board 
discussed the request to temporarily house the fire department in the House of Art, as well as the 
request to demolish the House of Art once the fire department relocates to its renovated building.  
There followed a motion to temporarily house the fire department in the House of Art during 
renovations.  That motion passed by unanimous vote.  A second motion was made to demolish 
the House of Art upon completion of renovations.  That motion also passed by unanimous vote.  
On October 10, following public reaction to the September 12 votes, the Board unanimously 
voted to rescind its approval of the temporary relocation to the House of Art and its approval of 
demolition of the House of Art.       
 
DISCUSSION  
  
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's 
discussion.  See OML 2015- 35; OML 2019-134.3  We have previously stated that the Open 
Meeting Law requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public 
can make an informed decision whether to attend the meeting to observe the discussion regarding 
a topic of interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22; OML 2015-74.  A public 
body need not list every detail about a topic to comply with the Law's requirements.  See OML 
2022-98; OML 2020-132; OML 2019-134.  Likewise, the Open Meeting Law does not require 
public bodies to list all tangential topics related to a discussion nor does the law require a public 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
body to anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion, only that it identify 
the discussion topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
When a public body plans to discuss a specific piece of property, notice of the meeting 
should include sufficient information to identify the property, either by listing the address, 
bordering streets, intersections or landmarks.  See OML 2019-105; OML 2010-2.  Even a 
meeting notice that does include a property address may be found to run afoul of the Open 
Meeting Law if it is otherwise insufficiently specific.  See, e.g., OML 2023-238 (notice topic “10 
Pleasant Street Change Order” insufficiently specific to inform public of anticipated vote to 
approve change order to demolition project at 10 Pleasant Street to cover cost of removing 
asbestos); OML 2021-13 (notice topic “‘Corner Spot - Cherry Street,’ although it provides the 
location of the property to be discussed, does not provide any information about the anticipated 
nature of the discussion”); see also OML 2023-100 (notice topic “Authorize ARPA Expenditure” 
in no way advised the public of a discussion about the use of ARPA funding to demolish the Old 
Town Hall building). 
 
  Here, the Board anticipated a discussion regarding temporary relocation of the fire 
department to the House of Art and subsequent demolition of the House of Art.  Fire Chief 
Harris provided the Board with a packet outlining both of those requests from the fire department 
prior to the meeting.  We note that in its response, the Board does not maintain that either 
discussion was unanticipated.  Instead, the Board states that it “did not believe that the subject 
matter discussion exceeded the scope of the agenda item.”  The Board was mistaken.  The 
discussion item “Temporary Housing Fire Department Renovation – Chief Harris and Director 
Larivee” did not provide sufficient notice that the Board would discuss relocation of the fire 
department to the House of Art or demolition of the House of Art.  The discussion item does not 
identify by address or in any other way the building to which the fire department would be 
relocated.  Even if the House of Art were referenced in the notice, there is no suggestion of 
possible demolition of the building.  In posting insufficient notice of its September 12 meeting, 
the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently specific notice for its September 12 meeting.  We order immediate and 
future compliance with the law’s requirements.  Because the Board rescinded at a subsequent 
meeting the votes it took on September 12 relative to the House of Art, we order no further 
action.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
  
 Matt
hew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Roxanne Gunther (via e-mail:   
 Monson Town Administrator (via e- mail:  jwolowicz@monson-ma.gov) 
 Monson Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@monson-ma.gov) 
 
 
 
  
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
 
