===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
November 8, 2021 
 
 
Amy Lindquist 
Assistant City Solicitor 
City of Melrose Legal Department 
360 Lynn Fells Parkway 
Melrose, MA 02176 
 
By e-mail only:  
 
 RE: Revision of OML 2020-154 
 
Dear Attorney Lindquist:  
 
On December 3, 2020, our office issued a determination, OML 2020-154, resolving a 
complaint filed by Gerry Mroz against the Melrose School Committee (the “Board”).  In that 
letter, the Attorney General concluded that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting a notice for its April 7, 2020, meeting which was insufficiently specific regarding a 
particular executive session topic and by including insufficient detail in the announcement prior 
to convening in executive session on that date.  Because the Committee had previously been 
advised by an order of the Attorney General that failing to state its purpose for entering executive 
session in sufficient detail violated the Open Meeting Law, the Attorney General found the 
Committee’s violation in this regard to be intentional and referred the matter for a hearing 
pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07(3).     
 
In order to resolve this matter, the Attorney General agreed to revise the determination to 
clarify that the finding of an intentional violation was based only on the fact that the Committee 
had been previously advised that the above-mentioned conduct violated the Open Meeting Law 
and not that the Committee intended to deceive the public.  Accordingly, we reissue the 
determination with this revision.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  Please 
feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.  
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
 
 
cc: Gerry Mroz – By e-mail only:  
Melrose School Committee, c/o Chair Edward O’Connell – By e-mail only: 
  
 
 
 

===PAGE 3===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
November 8, 2021 
 
       OML 2020 – 154 
 
 
Amy Lindquist 
Assistant City Solicitor 
City of Melrose Legal Department 
360 Lynn Fells Parkway 
Melrose, MA 02176 
 
By e-mail only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Lindquist:  
 
This office received a complaint from Gerry Mroz on July 21, 2020, alleging that the 
Melrose School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1  The complaint was filed with the Committee on May 7, and you responded on behalf of 
the Committee by letter dated June 12, following an extension of time granted by our office.  The 
complaint alleges that the notice for the Committee’s April 7 executive session was insufficiently 
detailed and that the Committee failed to follow the proper procedures before convening in 
executive session on April 7. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged.  Moreover, we find that the Committee’s failure to include sufficient detail in its April 7 
meeting notice was an intentional violation of the Open Meeting Law, and we refer the matter to 
a hearing pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07(3).  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our 
office requesting further review.  We also reviewed the notice and open and executive session 
minutes of the Committee meeting held on April 7, as well as video recordings of the April 7 and 
June 9 meetings.2    
 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 
2 Video recordings of the April 7 and June 9 meetings are available at https://vimeo.com/mmtv3.  

===PAGE 4===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Committee posted notice of a meeting to be held in 
executive session on Tuesday, April 7 at 6:30 P.M.  The notice listed “Call to Order” and then 
stated that the Committee would convene in executive session to approve the executive session 
minutes of March 10 and “to conduct a strategy session relative to non-union personnel contract 
negotiations.”  The Committee posted a separate notice for an open session meeting to be held on 
April 7 at 7:00 P.M.  This notice listed five topics, including Call to Order, Announcements - 
Superintendent of Schools, Consent Agenda, Subcommittees, and Announcements - School 
Committee Chair.   
 
The first April 7 meeting was held as planned and was the Committee’s first virtual 
meeting where all members participated remotely pursuant to the Governor’s March 12 
Executive Order.3  The Committee did not first convene in open session but rather directly 
convened in executive session at 6:30 P.M.  Outside of the public view and behind closed doors, 
the Committee approved a unanimous vote by roll call to convene in executive session to 
approve one set of executive session minutes and “to conduct a strategy session relative to non-
union personnel contract negotiations.”  During the executive session, the Committee approved 
the executive session minutes of its March 10 meeting and discussed the terms of a contract for a 
new Superintendent.  The Committee then unanimously approved the new Superintendent’s 
contract.  
  
The Committee reconvened in open session at 7:00 P.M.  Chair Edward O’Connell 
announced that the Committee had convened in executive session to consider contract terms for a 
new Superintendent and that the Committee had voted to approve a three-year contract for the 
new Superintendent.  Mr. O’Connell introduced the new Superintendent who briefly spoke.  The 
Committee then discussed the remaining open session topics.4 
 
During a June 9 meeting, Chair O’Connell explained that the Committee had not first 
convened in open session prior to its April 7 executive session meeting and that the Committee 
had therefore violated the Open Meeting Law.  Chair O’Connell declared that the Committee 
would schedule all future executive sessions “at the end of meetings so we can publicly and 
 
3 On March 12, Governor Charles Baker issued an executive order temporarily suspending certain provisions of the 
Open Meeting Law during the state of emergency created by the outbreak of the 2019 novel Coronavirus.  See Order 
Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 20 (Mar. 12, 2020).  The Executive Order 
temporarily suspends the requirements under the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law 
regulations that a quorum of a public body, including the chair, be physically present at the meeting location and 
allows all members of a public body to participate in a meeting remotely.   
4 Although not raised in the complaint, we note that it appears that the Committee did not vote by roll call during the 
April 7 open session meeting.  The Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations require that “[a]ll votes taken 
during any meeting in which a member participates remotely must be by roll call vote.”  940 CMR 29.10(7)(c).  
Moreover, all votes taken during an executive session must be by roll call.  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b).  This requirement 
is intended to create a clear record of what occurred and to reflect the significance of holding a discussion behind 
closed doors. See OML 2015-131; OML 2014-94; OML 2012-10.  Even if a vote is unanimous, the law requires that 
the Committee conduct its votes by roll call when a member participates remotely and at all times during executive 
sessions.  See 2016-132; OML 2015-131.  We remind the Committee of its obligations under the law. 
 
===PAGE 5===
3 
 
verbally announce the need.”  Chair O’Connell stated that the purpose of the April 7 executive 
session was to negotiate a contract for a new Superintendent. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  A public 
body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the 
Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is 
recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether 
the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.5  Executive session topics must be described, both in the 
meeting notice and in an announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 
567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary 
... because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct 
business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was 
proper or improper”). 
 
A public body may enter executive session “[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation 
for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract 
negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”).  When convening 
in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2, a public body must identify the nonunion personnel 
with whom it will be negotiating, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy.  
See OML 2017-53; OML 2016-43; OML 2013-151.   
 
The complaint alleges that the executive session topic listed on the April 7 meeting notice 
lacked sufficient detail where it did not include the specific nonunion personnel with whom the 
Committee would be negotiating and that the Committee failed to follow the proper procedures 
prior to entering executive session on April 7.  Here, the notice for the April 7 executive session 
meeting did not identify the specific nonunion personnel with whom the Committee would be 
conducting contract negotiations.  We conclude that the topic as listed on the notice should have 
identified the Superintendent as the nonunion personnel as the Committee does not suggest that 
inclusion of such information would have compromised the purpose for the executive session.  
See OML 2016-90; OML 2011-11.  In fact, after the Committee adjourned from executive 
session and convened in open session, the chair announced that the Committee had just 
concluded an executive session in which it discussed contract terms for a new Superintendent. 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
  
 
===PAGE 6===
4 
 
As such, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by providing insufficient 
detail in its April 7 meeting notice.      
 
Moreover, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to first 
convene in open session prior to entering into executive session on April 7.  While the chair 
stated the purpose for the executive session and a majority of Committee members voted to enter 
into executive session, the public had a right to witness these procedural steps in order to observe 
the vote and learn the purpose for the executive session.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(b) (1)-(3); OML 
2013-195.  The Committee posted separate notices for its open and executive session meetings 
on April 7 and admits that it failed to meet in open session prior to convening in executive 
session.  We commend the Committee’s commitment to ensure future compliance.  Nevertheless, 
members of the public were denied the opportunity to attend and learn the reasons for the April 7 
executive session.  See OML 2013-195.  We therefore find that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law and order the Committee to release to the public the April 7 executive session 
meeting minutes.  The Committee may not redact or withhold the minutes in any way.  See G.L 
c. 30A, § 22(f) (the minutes of any executive session may be withheld from disclosure to the 
public as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session; provided, 
however, that the executive session was held in compliance with the Open Meeting Law’s 
provisions regarding executive sessions); District Attv. for Plymouth Dist. v. Bd. of Selectmen 
of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 634 (1985) (“We view [the Open Meeting Law] as a statutory 
public waiver of any possible privilege of the public client in meetings of governmental bodies 
except in the narrow circumstances stated in the statute.”); OML 2019-164; OML 2017-23; OML 
2015-120. 
 
We must now determine whether these violations were, as the complainant urges, 
intentional ones.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a 
public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 
29.02.  An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate 
ignorance of the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates 
the Open Meeting Law.  Id.  In the past nine years, the Committee was found in violation of the 
Open Meeting Law three times for failure to state with sufficient specificity its purpose for 
entering executive session, in both its meeting notices and verbal statements prior to entering 
those sessions.6  See OML 2019-127; OML 2015-118; OML 2011-15.  Because the Committee 
had previously been advised on multiple occasions that this conduct violated the Open Meeting 
Law, we find that this violation is intentional.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; 940 CMR 29.02; OML 
2013-63.  We find this violation to be intentional based on the fact that the Committee had been 
previously advised that this conduct violated the law and not based on any finding that the 
Committee intended to deceive the public.  In fact, when the Committee reconvened in open 
session, it immediately announced that the executive session had been to consider contract terms 
for a new Superintendent, that the Committee had voted to approve a three-year contract for the 
 
6 On November 13, this office issued a determination resolving an Open Meeting Law complaint that was filed 
against a subcommittee of the Committee finding that the subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
improperly meeting in executive session, failing to record a roll call vote in its meeting minutes, and creating 
insufficiently detailed minutes for an executive session.  See OML 2020-147.  However, where this determination 
did not find violations similar to the violation found here and where this determination was not specifically issued 
against the Committee, we do not find this previous determination to be further evidence of an intent to violate the 
Law. 
===PAGE 7===
5 
 
new Superintendent, and then introduced the new Superintendent.  We refer this matter for a 
hearing pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07(3) and recommend that the Committee be assessed a fine of 
$500 pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c) (“Upon the finding of a violation, the attorney general may 
issue an order to . . . impose a civil penalty upon the public body of not more than $1,000 for 
each intentional violation”).  We invite the Committee to contact this office to discuss the 
hearing process. 
 
Finally, although not raised in the complaint, we note that even though the Committee’s 
negotiation of the Superintendent’s contract was an appropriate subject for executive session, 
once the negotiation reached fruition the Committee had an obligation to return to open session 
before it voted on whether to approve the contract.  The Open Meeting Law allows a public body 
to conduct contract negotiations with nonunion personnel in executive session, but does not 
authorize a public body to approve a contract in executive session.  See OML 2011-56; OML 
2011-44.  Therefore, although a public body may reach an agreement on the terms of a contract 
in executive session, it must subsequently vote to approve or ratify such an agreement in open 
session.  See OML 2011-28 (finding that school committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
voting to approve superintendent's contract addendum in executive session).  We remind the 
Committee of its obligations under the law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by providing insufficient detail in its April 7 meeting notice and by failing to first convene in 
open session prior to entering into executive session on April 7.  We find that the Committee’s 
failure to provide sufficient detail in its meeting notice was an intentional violation of the law.  
We therefore refer this matter for a hearing pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07(3).  We recommend the 
following orders be imposed: 
 
1) A civil penalty of $500; 
  
2) Release of the Committee’s April 7 executive session meeting minutes to the public and  
written notification to the Attorney General of the Committee’s compliance to disclose the 
executive session minutes within 30 days of receipt of this letter; 
 
3) Review by each member of the Committee of the Attorney General’s training video 
(Video 4) on executive session, available at the Attorney General’s website, 
https://www.mass.gov/service-details/open-meeting-law-training-videos.  Each member must 
certify his or her compliance with this order within 30 days of receipt of this letter; and 
 
4) Immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law. 
   
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
===PAGE 8===
6 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Gerry Mroz – By e-mail only:  
Melrose School Committee, c/o Chair Edward O’Connell – By e-mail only: 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
 
 
