===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 10, 2018 
OML 2018-50 
Lauren F. Goldberg, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Goldberg: 
This office received a complaint from Kathryn Gallagher, dated October 25, 2017, 
alleging that the Wenham Planning Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 11, 2017, and the 
Board responded by letter dated September 15, 2017. In her complaint, Ms. Gallagher alleges 
that a quorum of the Board deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the request for 
further review filed with our office. We reviewed an e-mail sent by the complainant to the 
Wenham Planning Coordinator and the draft minutes of a Board meeting held on July 13, 2017. 
We also reviewed a supplementary e-mail sent by the complainant on January 15, 2018, and a 
supplementary response from the Board dated March 28 and April 2, 2018.1 Finally, we spoke 
with the complainant by telephone on January 12, 2018. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member body, thus three members 
constitute a quorum. Ms. Gallagher, seeking to operate a bed and breakfast in a historic home in 
Wenham, e-mailed the Wenham Planning Coordinator arguing that a site plan review was not 
necessary. While Ms. Gallagher did not consider review by the Board necessary for her 
proposed project, she agreed to attend a meeting to discuss the project. However, Ms. Gallagher 
did not have a formal application pending before the Board. 
1 The complainant's supplementary e-mail contains allegations not found in the original complaint, including an 
allegation that the Board's July 13, 2017 meeting minutes contain inaccuracies. Because these allegations were not 
part of the complaint filed with the Board, we decline to review them. See 940 CMR 29.05(1); OML 2015-179. 
FACFS 
C: 
===PAGE 2===
The Board scheduled a meeting to be held on July 13, 2017. Ms, Gallagher arrived 
approximately half an hour prior to the scheduled start time. While in the restroom, Ms. 
Gallagher alleges that she heard four Board members—David Geikie, Virginia Rogers, Donald 
Killam, and Stephen Kavanagh—discussing the e-mail she had sent to the planning coordinator. 
Ms. Gallagher alleges that she heard Mr. Geikie state, "I don't like that Kate Gallagher. Things 
should not go favorably for this bed and breakfast." The four Board members dispute the 
complainant's version of events. One Board member does not recall any conversation; one 
member flatly denies that any conversation took place; and one member recalled a conversation 
about "niceties" with one other Board members, but not a discussion between or among a 
quorum of the Board regarding the complainant's proposed project. The fourth member stated 
that, prior to the meeting, the Board members discussed Ms. Gallagher's pending application 
before the Wenham Zoning Board of Appeals, but not any business over which the Board had 
jurisdiction. The Board held the July 13, 2017 meeting as planned and voted to initiate the site 
plan review process, over the complainant's objections.2 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that deliberations occur during a noticed meeting. G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18, 20. The law defines a "deliberation," in relevant part, as an "oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A quorum is a 
simple majority of the members of a public body. Id. 
Here, the complaint alleges that four Board members violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a noticed meeting to discuss her proposed bed and breakfast. Following 
our review, we find insufficient evidence to formally conclude that any improper deliberation 
took place. The versions of events provided by the four Board members are contradictory, and 
we cannot arrive at a formal finding of what conversation, if any, occurred. We note that all 
Board members deny that the complaint's version of events is correct, and we do not find 
sufficient evidence to the contrary. Accordingly, we are constrained to find that the Board did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to this allegation. See OML 2016-176.3 
However, we take seriously the allegations raised by the complaint, and we take this opportunity 
to remind the Board that all discussions between or among a quorum must only take place at a 
properly noticed meeting that is open to the public. 
2 To the extent that the complainant alleges that the decision to initiate a site plan review is outside the Board's 
purview, we note that this allegation, even if true, would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. We therefore do not review this allegation. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing 
Authority Board of Commissioners). 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Mahganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc; Kathryn Gallagher 
Wenham Planning Board 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 