===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
 
August 2, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 108 
 
 
Lauren F. Goldberg, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By email only:  
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Goldberg: 
 
This office received a complaint from Peter Brown on February 8, 2021, alleging that the 
Stoughton Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 29, 2020, and you responded, 
on behalf of the Board, by letter dated October 8, 2020.1  The complaint alleges that a quorum of 
the Board met with the Community Preservation Committee (the “Committee”) in open and 
executive session on September 2, 2020, without posting notice.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We 
also reviewed the notice and open and executive session minutes of the Committee meeting held 
 
1 We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, 
the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the 
complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of 
the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  We 
acknowledge that the Board met, reviewed the complaint, and authorized town counsel to respond to the complaint 
during an October 6, 2020, meeting.  However, it appears that the response was not forwarded to either the 
complainant or the Attorney General.  We remind the Board of its obligations under the law.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
on September 2, 2020, a video recording of the Committee’s September 2, 2020, meeting,2 and 
the open session minutes of the Board meeting held on October 6, 2020.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board is a five-member public body; thus three 
members constitute a quorum.   
 
The Committee duly posted notice for a virtual meeting to be held on Wednesday, 
September 2, 2020, at 7:00 P.M.  The notice listed seventeen topics, including an executive 
session to discuss two matters involving “negotiations pertaining to acquisition of real property” 
at 31 Porter Street and “West Street 4.95-Acre Greymax parcel pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, Section 
21(a)(6).” 
 
The September 2, 2020, meeting of the Committee was held as planned.  Three members 
of the Board attended this Committee meeting but did not participate or otherwise speak during 
the open session portion of the meeting.  After discussing several of the noticed open session 
topics, the Committee voted by roll call to enter into executive session to discuss “negotiations 
pertaining to acquisition of real property” at 31 Porter Street and “West Street 4.95-Acre 
Greymax parcel pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, Section 21(a)(6).”  Committee Chair John Morton 
declared that the Committee would reconvene in open session after the conclusion of the 
executive session.   
 
Initially, three members of the Board joined the Committee in executive session.  
However, upon realizing that three members were present, Board member Debra Roberts 
immediately left the executive session; only two Board members were then present.  During the 
executive session, Board member Robert O’Regan updated the Committee regarding the Town’s 
purchase of the Post Office site at 31 Porter Street explaining that a portion of the property may 
be used for open space and recreation and therefore eligible for community preservation funds.  
The Committee then briefly discussed the Greymax parcel and Mr. O’Regan answered questions 
from the Committee.   
 
The Committee reconvened in open session at the conclusion of the executive session 
meeting and discussed an application for supplemental funding with respect to the restoration 
and preservation of the Glen Echo property in Stoughton.  Members of the Board were not in 
attendance during this portion of the Committee meeting. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post 
notice of each meeting “at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays” and that every notice include “the date, time and place of such meeting and 
 
2 A video recording of the Committee meeting held on September 2, 2020, is available at 
http://71.184.118.35/CablecastPublicSite/show/7676?channel=2.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
listings of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b).   
 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to post notice when it met with the 
Committee in both open and executive session on September 2, 2020.  The Open Meeting Law 
defines a “meeting,” in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any 
matter within the body’s jurisdiction, however a meeting does not include the “attendance by a 
quorum of a public body at a meeting of another public body that has complied with the notice 
requirements of the open meeting law, so long as the visiting members communicate only by 
open participation in the meeting on those matters under discussion by the host body and do not 
deliberate.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.   
 
Here, three members of the Board, a quorum, were present during the open session 
portion of the Committee meeting held on September 2, 2020.  However, none of the three Board 
members spoke or participated during this portion of the meeting.  Members of a public body 
may attend the meeting of another public body provided they do not deliberate.  See OML 2016-
117; OML 2013-38.3  In considering whether members of a public body have deliberated during 
a meeting, we look for indicia of deliberation such as whether the public body members were 
seated with the general public and whether they participated by open participation, and not in a 
special capacity as public body members, to conclude that no improper deliberation occurred.  
See OML 2013-38; OML 2012-6.  The Commission meeting on September 2, 2020, was held 
virtually and there is no suggestion or evidence that the three Board members attended the 
meeting from the same location.  Moreover, because the three Board members in attendance did 
not speak or otherwise participate during the open session portion of the meeting, we find that 
the Board did not deliberate and therefore did not hold a meeting that was subject to the Open 
Meeting Law.   See OML 2020-40. 
 
With respect to the executive session portion of the September 2, 2020, meeting, only 
two of five Board members were in attendance.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a 
“quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  Even though 
Board member O’Regan provided updates on and shared his opinions about matters that had 
previously been discussed and were still pending before the Board, such communications did not 
constitute deliberation as a quorum of the Board was not present at this portion of the meeting.  
Therefore, because only two members of the Board, a subquorum, attended and participated in 
the executive session, the Board did not hold a meeting requiring compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law and thus the Board did not violate the law by failing to post notice.  See OML 
2020-72.   
 
 
 
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:   Peter Brown – By e-mail only:  
Stoughton Select Board c/o Debra Leblanc, Executive Assistant – By e-mail only:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
