===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
       October 3, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 187 
 
 
Zaheer A. Samee 
Assistant City Solicitor 
Office of the City Solicitor 
215 Pleasant Street, Suite 420 
Malden, MA 02148 
 
By email only: zsamee@cityofmalden.org 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Samee: 
 
This office received three complaints from Brian DeLacey on February 26, 2024, April 4, 
2024, and April 5, 2024, alleging that the Malden City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The first complaint was originally filed with the Council 
on or about January 22, and you2 responded, on behalf of the Council, by letter dated February 
20.  The second complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about February 26, and 
you responded, on behalf of the Council, by letter dated March 14.  The third complaint was 
originally filed with the Council or on about March 6, and you responded, on behalf of the 
Council, by letter dated March 14.  The first complaint alleges that the Council deliberated 
outside of a properly posted meeting to discuss the selection of a Council President.  The second 
and third complaints allege that the Council failed to meet and review an Open Meeting Law 
complaint. 
 
 We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters.  Following 
our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged.  
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Council’s responses to 
the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review.  In addition, 
we reviewed the notices and open session minutes of Council meetings held on January 2, 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2024.  
2 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
January 31, and March 12, as well as a video recording of the Inaugural Ceremony held on 
January 2.3   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Council is an 11-member public body; thus, six 
members constitute a quorum.    
 
On December 27, 2023, the Council posted notice of a meeting to be held on January 2 at 
6:00 P.M.  The notice included the following topic – Election of City Council President for 2024.  
A separate notice posted on the same day stated that the Council would “hold a meeting on 
Tuesday, January 2, 2024, 6:00 P.M. at Malden High School, 77 Salem Street, Malden, MA. in 
Room #J278 during a recess in the Inaugural Ceremony for the purpose of selecting a Council 
President for the year 2024.  This meeting is open to the public.”  
 
The Inaugural Ceremony for newly elected members of the Council and School 
Committee occurred on January 2 in the high school auditorium.  About an hour into the 
ceremony, former Council member Barbara Murphy, who was acting as master of ceremonies, 
instructed the Council to “retire” for election of a President and the School Committee to “retire” 
for election of a Vice Chair.  Members of the Council left the high school auditorium and 
convened in Room #J278 where they discussed and unanimously voted to appoint member 
Stephen Winslow as President.  Approximately 15 minutes later, the Council and School 
Committee returned to the auditorium, where members of the public had remained, to continue 
with the ceremony. 
 
On January 25, the Council posted notice of a meeting to be held on January 30 at 7:00 
P.M.  The notice included 14 topic headings, one of which was Communications.  Six additional 
topics were listed under Communications, including number 55-24, which was the first Open 
Meeting Law complaint filed with the Council by the complainant.  The notice indicated that the 
Council “will address” the complaint. 
 
The January 30 meeting was held as planned.  During the meeting, the Council briefly 
reviewed the first Open Meeting Law complaint and the response drafted by the City Solicitor’s 
Office.  Councillor Peg Crowe made a motion, which was seconded by Councillor Karen Colon-
Hayes, that the complaint “be referred to the Legal Department to respond on behalf of the 
Body.”  The Council approved the motion by a unanimous vote. 
 
On March 7, the Council posted notice of a meeting to be held on March 12 at 7:00 P.M.  
The notice included 12 topic headings, one of which was Communications.  Four additional 
topics were listed under Communications, including number 55-24, number 143-24, and number 
144-24, which were, respectively, the first, second and third Open Meeting Law complaints filed 
with the Council by the complainant.  The notice indicated that the Council “will address” the 
second and third complaints.  With respect to the first complaint (number 55-24), the notice 
indicated that the Council would “review and ratif[y]” the written response to the complaint. 
 
 
3 A video recording of the Inaugural Ceremony is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GVYiNFzFFZw . 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The March 12 meeting was held as planned and the Council discussed all three of the 
complaints at issue here.  Specifically, the Council heard from Assistant City Solicitor Samee 
who explained the alleged violations from each complaint, his investigation of the alleged 
violations, and then reviewed with the Council the responses he drafted for all three complaints.  
The Council unanimously voted that the responses to the second and third complaints “as 
prepared by the Legal Department be approved and submitted to the” Attorney General.  With 
respect to the first complaint, the Council unanimously voted that “the response as prepared by 
the Legal Department be approved and ratified.” 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We Find that the Council Did Not Deliberate Outside of a Meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
beration and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may 
be discussed at a meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For the 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public 
body.  Id.   
 
The Open Meeting Law does not carve out an exception to the definition of 
“del
iberation” for discussions that do not result in a decision or vote.  Any communication 
among a quorum of a public body on matters that are pending or will come before it and within 
the public body’s jurisdiction is considered deliberation.  See OML 2015-3; OML 2014-108; 
OML 2013-136; Boelter v. Board of Selectmen of Wayland, 479 Mass. 233, 243 (2018).4  
Moreover, the expression of an opinion of one public body member on matters within the body’s 
jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no other public body member 
responds.  See OML 2016-104; OML 2015-33. 
 
The first complaint alleges that a quorum of the Council deliberated outside of a properly 
posted meeting in selecting a Council President.  The complainant suggests that such allegations 
are based on “information and belief” and that the election of a President during the January 2, 
2024, meeting was “merely a ceremonial acceptance” but he has not articulated specific facts 
supporting his speculation that members of the Council deliberated outside of a posted meeting. 
We have explained on many occasions that mere speculation or conjecture regarding deliberation 
outside of a posted meeting, without factual support, is insufficient to support a complaint’s 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
allegations.  See, e.g., OML 2024-14; OML 2023-242; OML 2014-114; OML 2012- 59; see also 
G.L. c. 30A, § 24(a) (“Whenever the attorney general has reasonable cause to believe that a 
person, including any public body . . . has violated the open meeting law, the attorney general 
may conduct an investigation to ascertain whether in fact such person has violated the open 
meeting law.”)  The Council denies that a quorum of members deliberated outside of a meeting 
to discuss the selection of a President.  Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a 
public body’s account of the facts.  See OML 2023-121; OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141; see 
also LaPointe v. License Board of Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) (“There is every 
presumption in favor of the honesty and sufficiency of the motives actuating public officers in 
actions ostensibly taken for the general welfare.”).  As there is no evidence that a quorum of 
members of the Council deliberated outside of a meeting, we find no violation of the Open 
Meeting Law. 
 
More
over, we find that the Council did not meet “in seclusion,” as the complaint alleges, 
when it left the inaugural ceremony and moved to another room to discuss and vote for a Council 
President on January 2.  Here, the Council duly posted notice of the January 2 meeting and 
advised the public that the Council would meet in Room #J278 of the high school “during a 
recess in the Inaugural Ceremony for the purpose of selecting a Council President for the year 
2024” and that this meeting was “open to the public.”  On January 2, the Council gathered in the 
high school auditorium for the ceremony and members were sworn in.  Halfway through the 
ceremony, the Council left the auditorium, met in Room #J278, and voted for a Council 
President.  The Council then returned to the auditorium for the remainder of the ceremony.  We 
find that this meeting, during which the Council voted for a President, was properly noticed and 
held in a location that was open and accessible to the public; that members of the public might 
not have attended the meeting does not mean that the Council “met in seclusion.”  
 
Although we find that the Council did not deliberate outside of a properly posted 
mee
ting, we take this opportunity to remind the Council that the Open Meeting Law does not 
carve out an exception to the definition of “deliberation” for procedural discussions among 
public body members about how its meetings should be run or discussions that relate to setting 
yearly priorities for the body.  See OML 2017-91.  Discussions regarding procedural or 
administrative matters may relate to public business within a body’s jurisdiction, such as where 
the discussion involves the organization, leadership, or makeup of the public body, committee 
assignments, rules or bylaws for the body, and discussions of whether the body should consider 
or take action on specific topics at a future meeting.  See OML 2022-108; OML 2014-108; OML 
2013-27; OML 2011-38.    
 
In addition, the first complaint alleges that the Council deliberated in a serial manner 
when e
ach member spoke with the Mayor about the selection of a President, while the second 
complaint alleges that the Council deliberated in a serial manner when each member spoke with 
Assistant City Solicitor Samee about the circumstances alleged in the first complaint.  The 
Mayor is not a member of the Council, therefore any individual conversations the Mayor had 
with Council members do not constitute deliberation.  A non-member of a public body may 
communicate with public body members outside of a meeting as long as the non-member does 
not facilitate communication between or among a quorum of the public body.  See OML 2017-
125; OML 2017- 86.  There is no evidence here that the substance of the individual 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
conservations that Council members might have had with the Mayor were subsequently 
comm
unicated to a quorum of the Council.  See OML 2014-103.   
 
Moreover, any communications between a Council member and Assistant City Solicitor 
Samme also do not constitute deliberation as the Assistant City Solicitor is not a member of the 
Council.  See OML 2021-113; OML 2020-71.  Although a public body may not use a non-
member, such as a staff member, to facilitate communication on matters that the Council would 
otherwise be required to save for discussion at an open meeting, we find no indication that 
occurred here.  See OML 2016-172; see also Dist. Atty for the Northern Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of 
Wayland, 451 Mass. 561, 570-571 (2009).  As such, we find no evidence that a quorum of 
members discussed the open meeting law complaint between or among themselves outside of a 
properly posted meeting, and therefore do not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law.   
 
II. We Fin
 d that the Council Properly Responded to Open Meeting Law 
Complaints. 
 
The second and third complaints allege that the Council failed to meet and review an 
Open Meeting Law complaint.  Specifically, the second complaint alleges that the Council did 
not review or approve the response drafted by legal counsel to the first complaint, while the third 
complaint alleges that the Council authorized legal counsel to respond to the second complaint 
prior to the Council reviewing that complaint. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 days of receipt of a complaint, the public 
body revi
ew the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the 
Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  Upon the filing of an Open Meeting Law complaint with a 
public body, the chair “shall disseminate copies of the complaint to the members of the public 
body,” and “the public body shall review the complaint’s allegations.”  940 CMR 29.05(3), (5). 
Thus, a public body must meet to review the complaint and formulate a response, or meet to 
delegate that authority, and respond to the complaint within 14 business days.  See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(b); OML 2017-69; OML 2012-90.  
 
Here, a complaint was filed with the Board on or about January 22, and legal counsel 
res
ponded to the complaint on February 20.  During a meeting held on January 30, the Council 
briefly reviewed this first Open Meeting Law complaint and then unanimously voted to refer the 
complaint to legal counsel for response.  Then a second complaint was filed with the Board on or 
about February 26, and legal counsel responded to the complaint on March 14.  During a meeting 
held on March 12, the Council reviewed the second Open Meeting Law complaint and the 
response drafted by legal counsel.  The Council then unanimously approved the response and 
authorized legal counsel to forward the response to the complainant and the Attorney General.  
Proper procedure requires that a public body review a complaint before authorizing an 
individual, such as its legal counsel, to respond on its behalf.  See OML 2017-132; OML 2012- 
95; OML 2011-6.  Forwarding a complaint to legal counsel prior to a meeting does not violate 
the law as long as the public body reviews the complaint and any draft response during a 
meeting, approves the draft response during that meeting, and then either decides to send the 
response itself or authorizes legal counsel to send the response.  See OML 2018-134.  The Open 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
Meeting Law does not require a public body to engage in a substantive discussion of the merits 
of the c
omplaint.  See OML 2020-38; OML 2018-134; OML 2017-148.  Once a public body has 
reviewed a complaint during a meeting, its decision to simply refer the complaint, rather than 
discuss its substance, is the public body’s prerogative.  See OML 2019-40; OML 2017-96.   
 
We find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law where it, during the 
Januar
y 30 meeting, reviewed the first complaint and referred the complaint to legal counsel for 
response, and then, during the March 12 meeting, reviewed the second complaint and legal 
counsel’s response to that complaint, and then authorized legal counsel to send the response.  See 
OML 2024-154; OML 2023-220. 
 
With respect to the concerns raised in the third complaint that legal counsel, rather than 
the Counc
il Chair, requested additional information from the complainant, we decline to find a 
violation.  The Open Meeting Law regulations state that “[i]f the public body needs additional 
information to resolve the complaint, then the chair may request it from the complainant within 
seven business days of receiving the complaint.”  940 CMR 29.05(6).  We have consistently 
stated that a chair may delegate certain responsibilities to another individual, such as counsel.  
See, e.g., OML 2022-46; OML 2019-96; OML 2016-124; OML 2016-108 (chair may delegate 
authority to legal counsel for the purpose of announcing the executive session); see also OML 
2021-121; OML 2015-190 (chair may delegate task of drafting notices to another individual such 
as employee). 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Brian DeLacey – By email only:   
 Malden City Council – By email only: citycouncil@cityofmalden.org 
 Malden City Clerk Carol Ann Desiderio – By email only: cdesiderio@cityofmalden.org 
 
  
 

===PAGE 7===
7 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 