===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
November 3, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 154 
 
David Nadeau 
Chair, Ashby Selectboard 
895 Main Street 
Ashby, MA 01431 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Nadeau: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick McPhee on April 29, 2021, alleging that 
the Ashby Selectboard (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 5.  The Board did not respond to this 
complaint.2  The complaint alleges that the notices for Board meetings held on March 17, March 
24, March 31, April 5, April 6, and April 7 were insufficiently detailed.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint and the 
complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed the notices and open 
session minutes of Board meetings held on March 17, March 24, March 31, April 5, and April 7, 
the notice of the Board meeting held on April 6, and video recordings of the March 17, March 
24, March 31, April 5, and April 7 meetings.3    
 
 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 
2 We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, 
the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the 
complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of 
the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).    
3 The video recording of the March 17 meeting is available at https://vimeo.com/526589303; the video recording of 
the March 24 meeting is available at https://vimeo.com/529765569; the video recording of the March 31 meeting is 
available at https://vimeo.com/532657586; the video recordings of the April 5 and April 7 meetings are available at 
https://vimeo.com/user9231850. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board duly posted notices for meetings to be held on 
March 17, March 24, April 5, April 6, and April 7.  Each notice included the following topic: 
“Selectmen discuss FY22 Budget.”  The Board also duly posted notice for a meeting to be held 
on March 31.  This notice listed nine topics, one of which was “Any Other Business Not 
Reasonably Anticipated by the Chairman.”  The March 31 meeting notice did not include a 
specific topic related to the budget. 
 
The Board held meetings on March 17, March 24, March 31, April 5, and April 7, in 
which all three Board members participated remotely.  The Board did not meet on April 6.   
 
During the meetings held on March 17 and March 24, the Board generally discussed the 
budget as a whole and did not speak with members of specific town departments regarding their 
budget requests.  Specifically, during the March 17 meeting, the Board focused its budget 
discussions on three departments - the Council on Aging, North Middlesex Regional School 
District, and Highway Department while, during the March 24 meeting, the Board focused its 
discussions on various town projects that needed to be completed, the cost of those projects, and 
where they were reflected in the budget. 
 
During the March 31 meeting, the Board discussed the budget under the topic of “Any 
Other Business Not Reasonably Anticipated by the Chairman.”  Chair Michael McCallum raised 
the topic because he had recently received some numbers from a few town departments which 
put the town overbudget.  The Board then reviewed the overall budget to determine where cuts 
could be made to balance the budget.  Towards the end of the meeting, Board member Cathy 
Biliouris suggested that those departments with the largest budgets should be invited to the next 
Board meeting to discuss their individual budgets.  The Board ultimately agreed that each 
member would individually speak with a specific department head and then report their findings 
at the next Board meeting.  It was agreed that Ms. Biliouris would speak with the Police Chief, 
David Nadeau would speak with the Fire Chief, and Mr. McCallum would speak with the 
Highway Superintendent. 
 
During the April 5 meeting, the Board reviewed a spreadsheet containing all budget 
requests from each town department.  The Board first discussed the available free cash that could 
be used to balance the budget but concluded that applying the available amount would still put 
the town over budget, so cuts needed to be made.  The Board then reviewed certain line items 
which were waiting for final numbers, such as winter operations and state aid.  The Board 
discussed the decline in local receipts from excise taxes and foreclosures and the increase in 
ambulance fees and building permit fees from the previous year.  Chair McCallum mentioned 
that the loan for the public safety facility and any additional expenses with respect to that project 
have not been received from Unibank and are not included in the current budget.  The Board then 
briefly discussed the stabilization fund, how much money is currently there, and that withdrawals 
from that fund must be approved by Town Meeting, as well as possible uses of the federal 
CARES Act money.  The Board then focused on ways to balance the budget, including the use of 
free cash and leasing a highway truck instead of buying one.  Chair McCullum recognized an 
individual named Steve who had raised his hand and asked if he was Steve Beauregard from the 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Highway Department, to which he answered in the affirmative.  The Board then asked Mr. 
Beauregard’s thoughts on leasing a new dump truck rather than buying it.  Mr. Beauregard stated 
that he forwarded to the Board a few weeks ago specific numbers about leasing but did not have 
the numbers in front of him at that time, although he estimated that $40,000 to $50,000 a year for 
five years would be adequate to lease a new truck.  The Fire Chief interjected, explaining the 
prior practice of other town departments with respect to leasing vehicles.  The Board then 
unanimously approved a 1.5% raise for all non-contractual employees and unanimously voted to 
authorize the Town Administrator and Assistant Town Administrator to “adjust the budget as 
discussed by the Board,” which included a lease for a Highway Department dump truck in the 
amount of $50,000, removing $59,987.68 of projected cuts, adding $1,000 to the Debt Service 
Line of the budget, and adding a line item for a new Council on Aging position in the amount of 
$14,979. 
 
During the April 7 meeting, the Board reviewed the entire budget and approved the 
warrants for the Special Town Meeting and Annual Town Meeting to be held on May 1. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Notices must include 
the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics shall have sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member 
of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s 
discussion.  See OML 2015-35.4 
 
The complaint alleges that the notices for the Board meetings held on March 17, March 
24, March 31, April 5, April 6, and April 7 were insufficiently detailed because they did not 
include references to the specific town department budgets that the Board planned to discuss 
during each meeting.  The Board did not meet on April 6 and therefore did not discuss the fiscal 
year 2022 budget.  Where a public body does not actually engage in any deliberation on a 
particular topic, it cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the sufficiency of the 
meeting notice.  See OML 2018-22; OML 2016-76.   
 
With respect to the March 17, March 24, April 5, and April 7 meetings, where a public 
body anticipates discussing specific budget items, it must specifically list them in its meeting 
notice.  See OML 2011-7.  However, where a public body is reviewing the entire town fiscal 
year budget, it is not required to list all budget items on its meeting notice.  See OML 2012-83.  
Here, the Board generally discussed the entire budget during its March 17, March 24, April 5, 
and April 7 meetings, although the Board did focus on certain town departments during the April 
5 meeting.  Even though the Highway Superintendent was present and spoke briefly during the 
April 5 meeting, we find no evidence that he was notified and prepared to speak with the Board 
about his particular department’s budget as he specifically stated that he did not have numbers in 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
front of him.  We find that the Board’s discussions with respect to the Highway Department were 
simply one of many budget items that the Board discussed during the April 5 meeting and that 
the totality of the discussions during the meeting focused on the town budget as a whole.  A 
notice need not include every detail about an anticipated discussion; rather, the law requires that 
a notice to list topics with "sufficient specificity" so that the public can decide whether to attend 
the meeting and observe the discussion regarding that topic.  See 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 
2018-22; OML 2018-7.  We find that the notices for these four meetings were sufficiently 
specific because they informed the public that the Board would be generally reviewing the 
budget for the upcoming fiscal year and reflected the actual discussions held during the 
meetings.  See OML 2013-8.   
 
With respect to the March 31 meeting, Chair McCallum raised the fiscal budget during 
the topic identified on the notice as “Any Other Business Not Reasonably Anticipated by the 
Chairman” because he had recently received additional numbers from certain town departments 
and was concerned that the town was now overbudget.  A public body may discuss a topic not 
listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the 
meeting.  See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87.  While a public body may consider a topic at a 
meeting that was not listed in the notice if it was not reasonably anticipated at least 48 hours 
before the meeting, we encourage public bodies to postpone discussion of topics that were not 
listed in the meeting notice until the topic may be included in a meeting notice, unless the 
circumstances demand immediate action by the public body.  See OML 2011-23; OML 2013-
197. 
 
Although not raised in the complaint, we note that the Board failed to announce the 
names of the members who were participating remotely and failed to conduct votes by roll call 
during its remote open session meetings held on March 17, March 24, March 31, April 5, and 
April 7.  On June 16, Governor Baker signed into law An Act Extending Certain COVID-19 
Measures Adopted During the State of Emergency which continued to temporarily suspend the 
requirements under the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law 
regulations that a quorum of a public body, including the chair, be physically present at the 
meeting location and allows all members of a public body to participate in a meeting remotely.  
All other provisions of the law and regulations regarding remote participation remain in effect, 
including the requirements that “[a]t the start of the meeting, the chair shall announce the name 
of any member who will be participating remotely” and “[a]ll votes taken during any meeting in 
which a member participates remotely must be by roll call vote.”  940 CMR 29.10(7)(b), (c).   
 
 On March 17, March 24, March 31, April 5, and April 7, the Board held a meeting in 
which all three Board members participated remotely.  However, the chair of the Board did not 
announce the names of the three members who were participating remotely at the beginning of 
the meetings.  See OML 2020-138; OML 2020-98; OML 2013-112.  In addition, votes taken 
during these five meetings were not conducted by roll call vote.  Even if a vote is unanimous, the 
Attorney General’s Regulations require that, “all votes taken during any meeting in which a 
member participates remotely must be by roll call vote.”  940 CMR 29.10(7)(c); see OML 2016-
132; OML 2015-145.  We remind the Board of its obligations under the law. 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick McPhee – By email only:  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
