===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
May 24, 2024  
  
OML 2024 – 109 
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
Devan C. Braun, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
  
DBraun@k-plaw.com  
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Attorney Braun:  
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on March 29, 2024, alleging that 
the Somerset Zoning Board of Appeals (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on Feb ruary 24, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated March 29.1  The complainant alleges that the 
Board posted insufficiently specific notice of its February 22 meeting.     
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed 
the notice and viewed the recording of the February 22 meeting.2 
  
FACTS 
  
We find the facts as follows.  No tice of the February 22 meeting included a public 
hearing on Chik-Fil-A, Inc.’s petition to amend a previously approved permit “to construct a 
new, larger than previously approved, restaurant with two drive-through lanes and waiver of 
Zoning By-Law 6.7.2 (proposed off-street parking to be nine feet wide and 18 feet in length) in a 
Limited Business District” (hereinafter, “the Chik-Fil-A Petition”).  The notice identified the 
property’s owner and its location by street address and by assessor’s map lot number. 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2024. 
2 The recording can be viewed at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xtRtDo1vZrQ . The subject public hearing 
commences at approximately 31:32. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Board previously approved a development plan, which permitted construction of a 
restaurant at the subject site.  At the February 22 meeting, counsel for the petitioner explained 
that, if approved, the Chik-Fil-A Petition would amend that plan to allow for two drive-through 
lanes, while reducing the size of the restaurant from 6,600 to approximately 5,000 square feet. 
 
At the commencement of the public hearing on the Chik-Fil-A Petition, Board chair 
Steven Cadorette announced: “Before we start this, it was brought to our attention that [the 
notice] reads ‘new, larger than previously approved.’  Actually, it’s smaller than previously 
approved.”  The chair also acknowledged receipt of an email from the complainant “expressing 
concern that this might be an Open Meeting Law violation to proceed with this as worded.”
3  In 
response to the complainant’s email, the Board conferred with town counsel prior to the 
February 22 meeting.  Counsel advised the Board that the notice satisfied the Open Meeting Law 
despite the error.  As to the substance of the Chik-Fil-A Petition, the Chair also read into the 
record correspondence from the Planning Board, in which it noted its concerns about noise, odor, 
lighting and traffic flow, and recommended that the Board review these issues.   
 
DISCUSSION 
  
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
delibe
rations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978); see also OML 2023-56.4  Pursuant to the Open Meeting 
Law, “[e]xcept in an emergency ... a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(
b).  The notice must be “printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain 
the da
te, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  Id.   
 We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's 
discussion.  See OML 2023-199; OML 2023-3; OML 2019-134.  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an 
informed decision whether to attend the meeting to observe the discussion regarding a topic of 
interest.  See OML 2023-199; OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95.  We have found notice lacking 
when it failed altogether to identify the property or project to be discussed or the nature of the 
proposal.  See, e.g., OML 2024-67; 2024-43; OML 2023-128.
 
The Open Meeting Law does not require a meeting notice to list all tangential issues 
related to a particular topic.  See OML 2024-79; OML 2021-114; OML 2016-120.  Where a 
public body’s discussion naturally flows from its consideration of the posted notice topic, the 
notice is sufficient to comply with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2023-
186; OML 2021-39; OML 2018-72.  Here, the complainant does not allege that the notice failed 
 
3 The complainant sent the email on February 21.  As less than 48 hours remained prior to the meeting, the notice 
could not have been amended to satisfy the complainant’s concerns in time for the February 22 meeting.  See  G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b) (requiring tha t notice be posted at least 48 hours prior to the meeting).  
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website , https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
to include certain details but rather that a detail that was included was incorrect.  We find, 
however, that the proposed reduction in size of the restaurant was such a small part of the Chik-
Fil-A Petition that the error was insignificant for purposes of the Open Meeting Law.  The notice 
included the property location and owner.  It also referenced Chik-Fil-A, Inc. and the proposal of 
a restaurant with two drive-throughs.  We acknowledge that there may be circumstances where a 
seemingly minor typographical error on a meeting notice may significantly impact how a 
reasonable member of the public understands the nature of the topic to be discussed.  Here, 
however, where the proposal included a reduction of the size of the restaurant rather than an 
increase, and the discussion during the meeting focused on noise, odor, lighting, and traffic flow, 
but not size, we find that the description was sufficiently specific.  The notice satisfied the Open 
Meeting Law.   
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
   
 
Matt
hew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
  
cc: Patrick Higgins (via email: )  
 Somerset Zoning Board of Appeals (via email:  scadorette@town.somerset.ma.us) 
 Somerset Town Administrator (via email: mullucci@town.somerset.ma.us) 
Somerset Town Clerk (via email: chadala@town.somerset.ma.us) 
   
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
