===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 17,2015 
OML 2015-37 
J. Raymond Miyares, Esq. 
Miyares & Harrington LLP 
40 Grove Street, Suite 190 
Wellesley, MA 02482 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Miyares; 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Michael Goodwin, dated January 2, 2015, 
alleging that the Hopkinton Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 5, 2014, 
and the Board responded to the original complaint by letter dated December 1, 2014. In his 
complaint, Mr. Goodwin alleges that the Board failed to list anticipated executive session 
discussion topics with sufficient specificity in several meeting notices. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to provide sufficient detail in two meeting notices regarding its negotiations with nonunion 
personnel. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Board's 
response; and the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notices 
and minutes of meetings the Board held on three dates in 2014: October 7; October 21; and 
November 6 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body that meets at 
regular intervals to discuss and act on matters of relevance to the Town of Hopkinton. At issue 
are meetings the Board held on the three dates mentioned above. 
The Board held a meeting on October 7, 2014. The posted agenda for that meeting listed 
two topics for discussion during an anticipated executive session: (i) "[t]o discuss considering 
the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property in regards to a property, because an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the Board;" and (ii) "[t]o 
conduct contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." The complaint alleges that the first 
anticipated executive session topic is insufficiently specific because it fails to name or describe 
the property to be discussed, and that the second anticipated executive session topic is 
insufficiently specific because it fails to name the nonunion personnel to be discussed. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
A Ss SEIU 
===PAGE 2===
Ultimately, the Board did not meet in executive session to discuss the first anticipated topic, but 
it did meet in executive session to discuss the second. 
The agenda for the Board's October 21, 2014 meeting listed an anticipated executive 
session "'[tjo conduct contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." At the meeting, the Board 
entered executive session and discussed the contracts of certain nonunion personnel. Again, the 
complaint alleges that the Board should have identified the specific personnel who would be 
discussed behind closed doors. 
The agenda for the Board's November 6, 2014 meeting listed two anticipated executive 
sessions: (i) "[t]o discuss considering the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property in 
regards to a property, because an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating 
position of the Board;" and (ii) "[t]o conduct contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." 
The complainant's allegations concerning this meeting are the same as with the October 7, 2014 
meeting. Ultimately, the Board did not meet in executive session to discuss either topic on this 
date. 
During a meeting held on November 6, 2014, one day after receiving the present Open 
Meeting Law complaint, the Board voted to amend its October 7, 2014 and October 21, 2014 
meeting agendas and open session minutes. The October 7, 2014 agenda and open session 
minutes now indicate that the Board met in executive session to prepare for contract negotiations 
with Police Lieutenant Charles Wallace. The October 21, 2014 agenda and open session minutes 
now indicate that the Board met in executive session to prepare for contract negotiations with 
Lieutenant Wallace, as well as Town Manager Norman Khumalo. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Thus, the law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 20(a), 21. Meeting notices must be "printed in a legible, easily understandable format and 
shall contain the date, time, and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The Attorney 
General's regulations require a meeting notice to list those topics with "sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b). For executive session topics, the Board must identify the specific executive session 
purpose it intends to invoke to justify the executive session, and provide as much detail as 
possible to inform the public of the nature of the executive session discussion without 
compromising the confidentiality of the executive session. See OML 2011-9. Thus, we have 
said that when disclosure will not defeat the purpose for the executive session, public bodies 
entering into executive session to discuss nonunion employee contracts should disclose the name 
of the specific nonunion personnel with whom they will be negotiating.1 See OML 2013-97. 
1 See also the Attorney General's FAQ: Meeting Notices, available at: http://www.mass.gov/ago/govemment-
resources/open-meeting-law/oml-faqs/oml-faq-meeting-notices.html: 
How specific must the listing of topics be in the meeting notice? 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Here, the complaint alleges that the agendas for the three meetings at issue lack sufficient 
detail regarding the precise properties and nonunion personnel to be discussed. We note that the 
Board did not actually enter executive session to discuss the acquisition of real property during 
the October 7, 2014 meeting, or to discuss either anticipated topic during the November 6, 2014 
meeting. A meeting notice must include sufficient detail to tell the public what matters will be 
discussed; where nothing is discussed, there cannot be insufficient notice of the discussion. 
Thus, when a public body does not actually engage in any executive session deliberation, the 
Open Meeting Law is not violated with respect to the sufficiency of the meeting notice. See 
OML 2014-81. 
As for the discussions of nonunion personnel on October 7, 2014 and October 21, 2014, 
we find the original notices for those meetings were insufficiently specific because they did not 
identify the nonunion personnel with whom the Board would be negotiating. This lack of detail 
violated the Open Meeting Law, because inclusion of this information would not have 
compromised the executive session purpose. Although we commend the Board's efforts to take 
corrective action in response to the complaint, we note that the Board's amendment of its 
meeting agendas and minutes was not sufficient to cure the deficiencies in the meeting notice. 
The requirement that a public body state the purpose for its executive session is intended to give 
the public notice of what a public body plans to discuss behind closed doors. See OML 2012-68. 
Amending meeting notices after the fact does not achieve the goals of the law. See OML 2013-
23; OML 2012-68. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that future 
similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
The listing of topics must contain enough specificity to give the public an understanding of each topic that will be 
discussed. It is not sufficient to list broad topic categories, such as "Old Business." For example, when the Chair of a 
Board of Selectmen reasonably anticipates a discussion about on-going traffic improvement projects in town at the 
next Board meeting, it would be appropriate for the Chair to list that topic in the notice as: "Discussion of Traffic 
Improvement Projects at the intersection of Main and Pleasant Streets; and at the intersection of Elm and Oak 
Streets." In some instances, there may be overlap in the posting requirements of the Open Meeting Law and other 
statutes. In most cases, the information required by the controlling statute will satisfy the Open Meeting Law 
meeting notice requirements, however for specific questions please contact the Division of Open Government. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 
===PAGE 4===
cc: Mr. Michael Goodwin 
Hopkinton Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 