===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
October 23, 2019 
OML 2019-131
Patricia Rydlack 
Charlton Planning Board Chair 
37 Main Street 
Charlton, MA 01507
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Ms. Rydlack:
This office received a complaint from Nicole Caruso on May 9, 2019, alleging that the 
Charlton Planning Board violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint 
was originally filed with the Planning Board on February 11, 2019, and the Planning Board 
responded by letter dated February 27, 2019. In her complaint, Ms. Caruso alleges that the 
Planning Board posted an overly vague agenda topic (“Open Forum”) on the agenda for its 
February 6, 2019, meeting less than 48 hours before a meeting. She also alleges that the Chair 
invited an individual to speak whose remarks had not be noticed on the agenda.
Following our review, we find that the Planning Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the complaint, the Planning Board’s response and 
the request for further review. We also viewed a video of the February 6 meeting of the Planning 
Board as well as the original and revised meeting notices for the February 6 meeting.1 We also 
reviewed a February 8 letter sent by Town Administrator Robin Craver to Chair Rydlak about 
her concerns that the Chair’s actions had exposed the town to Open Meeting Law liability. 
Finally, we spoke by phone to you on October 4 and to Attorney Michael Pill on October 15.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. On January 31, the Administrative Assistant to the Planning 
Board posted the first notice for the February 6 meeting of the Planning Board. This meeting 
notice did not contain the “Open Forum” item at issue. On February 5, the Charlton Board of 
Selectmen brought in an outside attorney to provide an Open Meeting Law training, which 
several members of the Planning Board attended. On February 6 at 9:35am, the Planning Board
1 Unless otherwise noted, all dates refer to 2019.

===PAGE 2===
posted a revised meeting notice for its meeting that evening. This meeting notice added a new 
topic, “Open Forum,” which had been recommended by the Open Meeting Law trainer. An 
executive session item was also removed from the meeting notice.
Neither the original nor the amended meeting notice included any mention of Valley 
Green Grow (“VGG”), a controversial proposed marijuana grow facility. The Planning Board 
had previously disagreed with the Board of Selectmen about the proper zoning classification of 
the proposed marijuana grow facility. The Planning Board had blocked VGG’s application to 
build such a facility on a certain parcel in Charlton, against the wishes of the Board of 
Selectmen. The Board of Selectmen then refused to hire a lawyer for the Planning Board after 
the Planning Board’s site plan denial had been appealed by VGG.
On February 6, a few minutes before the Planning Board meeting began, a land use 
attorney from Northampton, Attorney Michael Pill, introduced himself to Chair Rydlak and 
explained he had been following the developments in Charlton. He offered to advise the 
Planning Board about their legal rights and represent them pro bono if they wished.
At 7:00pm, the Planning Board convened its meeting, and the Chair started the meeting 
by explaining that the addition of the Open Forum agenda item was a result of what the Planning 
Board had learned at Open Meeting Law training the night before.2 When the Chair opened the 
forum for questions, the first question was from a Charlton resident, Kristin Kustigian, about the 
appeal status of the Planning Board’s denial of Valley Green Grow’s (“VGG”) site plan.
The Chair agreed to give an update about the status of the project, stating that “last night” 
she found out that there had been negotiations between the Town Administrator, the Chair of the 
Board of Selectmen and VGG representatives in order to resolve an ongoing dispute about a 
proposed marijuana growing facility. The Chair then stated that she felt that these negotiations 
between the Town Administrator, the Chair of the Board of Selectmen and VGG representatives 
had not been transparent, including to members of the Planning Board. The Chair then allowed 
Attorney Pill to address the Planning Board “to help ensure that the Board is not circumvented in 
this matter.” Attorney Pill stood up and spoke at length about why the Board of Selectmen had 
an adverse interest to the Planning Board in the dispute and why the Planning Board should have 
its own lawyer. Attorney Pill stated that he was offering to represent the Planning Board pro 
bono in any manner that would be helpful.
After Attorney Pill responded to questions from the Planning Board, the Chair then 
invited Karen Spiewak, vice-chair of the Board of Selectmen, to speak about when the next 
meeting of the Board of Selectmen would be. The Planning Board received several more 
questions from 1) an abutter to the disputed property, Gerard Russell, 2) Ms. Kustigian again, 
and 3) an unnamed member of the public. No representatives from VGG spoke. At 7:30, the 
Chair concluded the “Open Forum” and moved on to the next item on the agenda.
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter.

===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION
Except in an emergency, a public body must post notice of every meeting “at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays,” and must include 
a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b). A public body may amend the notice within 48 hours of a meeting if a previously- 
unanticipated topic comes to the Chair’s attention. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(d). If amending the notice 
less than 48 hours prior to a meeting, a public body must conspicuously record the date and time 
that the meeting notice is amended on or with the amended notice. Id. However, the Attorney 
General strongly recommends that public bodies, as a matter of best practice, table discussion of 
topics that arise during the 48-hour-window that might be of significant interest to the public in 
order to include such topics in a meeting notice for a subsequent meeting. See OML 2016-54; 
OML 2018-119.
In addition, public bodies are required to list topics in meeting notices with “sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable 
member of the public could read the topic and understand what the nature of the public body's 
discussion will be. See OML 2017-94; OML 2015-35; OML 2013-39.3
Here, we find that the “Open Lorum” was truly guided by public questions and 
comments. Although the Chair had learned about the VGG negotiations the night before, she did 
not know that a member of the public would ask about the status of the project at the February 6 
meeting. The Chair also did not reasonably anticipate that Attorney Pill would speak about the 
VGG project at the time that the meeting notice was amended at 9:35am on February 6.4 The 
Chair assures us, and we have confirmed in our independent discussion with Attorney Pill, that 
the Chair had never met Attorney Pill before he introduced himself in the few minutes before the 
meeting. Attorney Pill has stated to us, and we credit his account, that his explanation of the 
Planning Board’s legal rights was extemporaneous and not planned in advance by either himself 
or the Chair.
We have previously stated that the Open Meeting Law does not require the chair of a 
public body to guess what will occur at a meeting. See OML 2013-197. As the Chair did not 
reasonably anticipated that a member of the public would ask for an update about the VGG 
project during “Open Forum,” nor that Attorney Pill would introduce himself just ahead of the 
meeting, we find that the Planning Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2018- 
119; OML 2016-54.
3A11 previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law.
4 There are many conflicting statements about how Attorney Pill came to attend the February 6 meeting of the 
Planning Board to speak during the “Open Forum.” The complaint alleges that the “Open Forum” agenda item was 
added the morning of the meeting in order to give Attorney Pill an opportunity to speak, at the Chair’s invitation, 
without clearly notifying the public that he would be speaking. In the video of the meeting, Chair Rydlak states that 
she learned “last night” of previously undisclosed negotiations between the Town Administrator, the Chair of the 
Board of Selectmen and VGG representatives and therefore invited Attorney Pill to speak at the February 6 meeting. 
In the video of the meeting, Attorney Pill also states that he was invited by the Chair.
3

===PAGE 4===
Finally, we take this opportunity to make clear that we generally encourage public 
participation and the use of agenda items such as an “Open Forum” for public feedback. See 
OML 2013-67; 2012-23. However, the use of such an item in this case has opened the Planning 
Board up to an appearance of impropriety. The use of the new “Open Forum” agenda topic to 
allow Attorney Pill to present on a controversial topic, even if unanticipated, left certain 
members of the public with the impression that the Planning Board had added the item to allow 
people opposing the VGG project to speak while those who supported the project were not 
present. Statements by Attorney Pill and the Chair herself that implied that the Chair had invited 
Attorney Pill to attend certainly contributed to this impression. When significant new topics 
arise, either just before a meeting or during a meeting, we recommend that a public body 
postpone discussion of the topic to a later meeting wherever possible. See OML 2019-70.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we do not find that the Planning Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Planning Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions.
Sincerely,
Sarah Chase
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Nicole  Caruso
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
4
