===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 20, 2021 
 
OML 2021 – 118 
 
 
Ray Arsenault 
Chair, Rocks Village Historic District Commission 
 
 
 
 
By email only:  
Road, Wayland, MA 01778-2614     
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Arsenault: 
 
This office received a complaint from Louise Mears Lutts on December 21, 2020, 
alleging that the Haverhill Rocks Village Historic District Commission (the “Commission”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with 
the Commission on October 1, 2020, and you1 responded to the complaint, on behalf of the 
Commission, by letter dated October 7, 2020.  The complaint alleges that the Commission has 
failed to create and maintain minutes for meetings held during approximately the past 15 years.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Commission’s response to the complaint, and the Complainant’s letter to our office requesting 
further review of the complaint.  We also reviewed several emails exchanged between the 
Complainant and current and former members of the Commission during September 2020, which 
the Complainant provided to our office.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On September 5, 2020, the Complainant sent an email to 
the Chair of the Commission requesting minutes and the recording of a recent Commission 
meeting, and asking who maintains meeting minutes and why meeting minutes are not made 
 
1 For the sake of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 

===PAGE 2===
available to the public.  The Chair responded on September 6, 2020, that “[t]hough minutes have 
typically been kept, I am not aware of any rules nor any regulations in our charter that state that 
the [Commission] is required to keep or distribute minutes.”  The Chair further responded that he 
recorded the particular meeting in question so that he could eventually prepare minutes, but that 
he did not believe meeting minutes were required and he did not anticipate being able to prepare 
the minutes any time soon.   
 
The Complainant then made a broader request for all minutes of past Commission 
meetings, though she stated that she was willing to begin by reviewing minutes from whatever 
period of time could be made available.  The Chair, who had been in that role for approximately 
15 years at the time of the request, responded by acknowledging that minutes for many meetings 
had not been created since he became Chair, but he offered to search for the minutes that had 
been prepared.  He also put the Complainant in contact with a former Commission member who 
he believed had records of older meeting minutes.  On September 8, 2020, after further 
correspondence, the Commission identified several binders of meeting minutes from the 1980s in 
the possession of another Commission member.  However, the Commission declined to provide 
the originals to the Complainant to review, and instead stated that the minutes would need to be 
copied and scanned.  On October 1, 2020, after still not having received the requested meeting 
minutes, the Complainant filed this complaint.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The current version of the Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and 
maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, 
time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a 
list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions 
taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  Moreover, the 
Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to create and approve meeting minutes, whether for 
open or executive session, in a timely manner.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  “Timely manner” means 
“within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the 
public body can show good cause for further delay.”  940 CMR 29.11; see OML 2018-48. 2  
Furthermore, “[t]he minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft 
form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 days.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  
 
The Attorney General assumed responsibility for the interpretation and enforcement of 
the Open Meeting Law as it applies to local public bodies on July 1, 2010, when the revised 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, took effect.  Prior to that date, the district attorneys 
had responsibility for enforcement of the Open Meeting Law at the municipal level.  The Open 
Meeting Law, as it existed prior to July 1, 2010, stated that a public body “shall maintain 
accurate records of its meetings, setting forth the date, time, place, members present or absent 
and action taken at each meeting, including executive sessions.”  G.L. c. 39, § 23B.  Therefore, 
there has long been a requirement that local public bodies maintain accurate records of all 
meetings. 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
 
In response to the complaint, the Commission acknowledged that it is required to create 
and maintain minutes for all meetings, and that in the past it has not maintained meeting minutes 
in any systematic way but rather minutes were in the possession of various past and present 
Commission members.  The Commission’s response does not expressly acknowledge that the 
Commission has failed to create meeting minutes for much of the past 15 years, though the 
correspondence we reviewed makes that clear.  Therefore, we find that the Commission violated 
the Open Meeting Law by failing to create and maintain accurate minutes for all meetings.  The 
Commission has committed to a process whereby it will create a digital archive of each meeting, 
which will include the creation and timely approval of meeting minutes.   
 
In addition, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
provide the meeting minutes that it was able to locate within 10 days of the Complainant’s 
request.  We acknowledge the demands placed on the all-volunteer Commission by the request 
for many years of meeting minutes as well as the Commission’s desire to copy and scan the 
minutes that it located rather than provide the binders of original minutes to the Complainant to 
review.  Nonetheless, as the Open Meeting Law requires a public body to make minutes 
available, if they exist, within 10 days of a request, we are constrained to find a violation of the 
Law in this regard.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).   
 
In past determinations, when a public body has failed to create minutes of meetings, we 
have ordered that public body to create minutes for all previous meetings to the best of its ability, 
through whatever means are available, including the memories and individual notations of the 
attendees.  See OML 2021-107; OML 2020-160; OML 2018-23; OML 2017-120.  We 
acknowledge the difficulty in doing so here where the number of missing meeting minutes is 
voluminous, the period of time for which the Commission either did not create minutes or has 
failed to maintain minutes exceeds three decades, and other records or recordings may not have 
been kept.  Nevertheless, we order the Commission to create minutes for as many meetings as it 
deems possible, starting with the most recent, using any means available to it.  See OML 2020-
53 (noting that, although “time ha[d] passed since [the] meeting occurred, the Board should add 
the requisite level of detail to the minutes to the best of its ability”); OML 2020-69 (ordering a 
school committee to create and approve minutes for meetings of a subcommittee held over a 
three-year period).  Although we order the Commission to create minutes to the best of its 
ability, we acknowledge the potential infeasibility of accurately capturing the substance of the 
discussions that occurred during past meetings, and we remind the Commission that any minutes 
that are created must accurately capture what was actually discussed and decided during the 
meetings.  See OML 2020-101; OML 2020-62. 
 
Finally, we must determine whether the Commission’s violations were, as the 
Complainant urges, intentional.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or 
omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting 
Law].”  940 CMR 29.02.  An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted 
with deliberate ignorance of the law's requirement or has previously been advised that certain 
conduct violates the Open Meeting Law.  Id.  The Complainant asserts that the Commission 
members, and especially the Chair, who have served for years or in some cases decades, should 
be well aware of the requirement to create and maintain minutes for all meetings.  Although we 
===PAGE 4===
agree that the requirement to create and maintain meeting minutes is fundamental to the Open 
Meeting Law, we nonetheless decline to find an intentional violation here, but rather find 
evidence of a significant misunderstanding of the Law’s requirements.  We take this opportunity 
to remind all members of the Commission that the Open Meeting Law requires that, “within 2 
weeks of qualification for office, all persons serving on a public body shall certify, on a form 
prescribed by the attorney general, the receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, regulations 
promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a copy of the educational materials prepared by the 
attorney general explaining the open meeting law and its application pursuant to section 19 . . . . 
The certification shall be evidence that the member of a public body has read and understands 
the requirements of the open meeting law and the consequences of violating it.” G.L. c. 30A 
§ 20(h).3  The Open Meeting Law certification form must be signed upon initial appointment or 
election to a public body, and again upon re-appointment or re-election.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to create and maintain meeting minutes for a lengthy period of time.  We order 
immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements and we caution that similar future 
violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  In addition, we order the 
Commission to create minutes for as many meetings as it deems possible to the best of its ability, 
through whatever means are available, including the notes and recollections of the attendees.  
Within 90 days of receipt of this letter, the Commission shall certify to our office that it has 
complied with this order to create meeting minutes.  If the Commission is unable to create 
specific minutes, it must, within 90 days of receipt of this letter, explain to this office in writing 
what efforts it made to create those minutes. 
 
In addition, we order the Commission to make available to the Complainant all meeting 
minutes that exist and that have been located, if it has not already done so, within ten days of 
receipt of this letter.  The Commission also shall provide all meeting minutes that are newly 
created in accordance with this Order to the Complainant within ten days of their creation. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Commission 
or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 The Open Meeting Law certification form and required materials are available on the Attorney General’s website, 
https://www.mass.gov/service-details/complete-public-body-member-certification. 
===PAGE 5===
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       Carrie Benedon 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Louise Mears Lutts – By email only:  
Andrew Herlihy, Division Director, Haverhill Community Development Department – 
By email only:  
  
 
 
