===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 11, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 217 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Ryan Clemens, Esq. 
Town Counsel 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
ryan@mtclawyers.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Clemens: 
 
This office received a complaint from Trevor Currier on May 22, 2023,
1 alleging that the 
Middleton Zoning Board of Appeals (the “Board”), and specifically its chair Richard Benevento, 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with 
the Board on or about April 7, and, after an extension of time granted by our office, you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated April 28. The complaint relates to the Board’s 
March 24 meeting and raises several allegations regarding various individuals’ ability to speak 
during the meeting, including that the Chair told two attendees to “take it outside.” The 
complaint also alleges that the Chair gave the impression that a public hearing was being 
continued thus causing the applicant to leave the meeting location. Finally, the complaint alleges 
that the Board deliberated after the meeting was adjourned.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, the request for further review, and a video recording of the Board’s March 24 
meeting.
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be noticed and open to 
the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the Board’s March 24 meeting may be found at 
https://middletonma.gov/CivicMedia?VID=470. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation,” in relevant part, as “an 
oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 
18. For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is “a simple majority of the members of 
the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Finally, the Open Meeting Law states that:  
 
No person shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, 
and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent. No person shall disrupt 
the proceedings of a meeting of a public body. If, after clear warning from the chair, 
a person continues to disrupt the proceedings, the chair may order the person to 
withdraw from the meeting and if the person does not withdraw, the chair may 
authorize a constable or other officer to remove the person from the meeting. 
 
G.L. c. 30 A, § 20(g). 
 
 With respect to the allegations regarding public participation during the meeting and  the 
Chair’s request that two attendees “take it outside,” we find no violation. After review of the 
video recording of the meeting, we find that at times the meeting became contentious and the 
Chair took steps to control the meeting including by asking individuals to stop speaking and by 
yelling at two members of the public who were yelling at each other and telling them to “take it 
outside” if they wanted to continue to argue with each other. Ultimately, the chair of a public 
body is empowered to conduct the meeting and to maintain order. See OML 2012-2.
3 Where the 
Chair acted within his authority under the Open Meeting Law to determine who may speak 
during a meeting and to maintain order, and where he did not unreasonably threaten to remove 
anyone from the meeting, we find no violation.
4 
 
Likewise, we find that although the Chair stated that the Board would cont inue the public 
hearing at issue after having a contentious exchange with the applicant, it was clear in context 
that the hearing had not been continued and that the applicant left voluntarily. Indeed, as the 
applicant was leaving the meeting, the Chair loudly and clearly asked the applicant’s attorney a 
substantive question about the application, indicating that hearing had not concluded. Compare 
OML 2019-123 (finding no violation where the chair twice mistakenly stated that the meeting 
was “adjourned,” when it was clear in context that the intention was to “recess” the meeting) 
with OML 2020-165 (finding a violation where the Board voted in error to adjourn the meeting, 
the one member of the public most interested in the topic under consideration left the meeting 
location, and the Board thereafter reconvened the meeting and continued its discussions).     
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 The complaint references a recent Supreme Judicial Court case, Barron v. Kolenda , 491 Mass. 408 (2023). In 
Barron the Supreme Judicial Court explained that content-based restrictions on public comment may violate the 
portion of the Massachusetts Declaration of Rights protecting the right to assemble and the right to free speech.  The 
Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law only; we do not review 
allegations concerning restrictions on public comment or compliance with the United States or Massachusetts 
constitutions. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 Finally, the complaint alleges that the Board deliberated after the meeting adjourned. As 
support f
or this allegation the complaint cites to the end of the video recording and notes that one 
member asks the Chair to close the meeting and then as the video recording ends, that member 
can be heard saying “Now you can . . . .” The Board explains in its response that after the 
meeting was adjourned, the Chair said something to the effect of “Now you can all go home.” In 
the request for further review, the Complainant asserts that the Board failed to comply with his 
request for a signed transcript of the Board’s discussion following the meeting and asserts, 
without any support, that the Board has lied. Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit 
a public body’s account of the facts. See OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141; See also LaPointe v. 
License Board of Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) (“There is every presumption in favor of the 
honesty and sufficiency of the motives actuating public officers in actions ostensibly taken for 
the general welfare.”).
  We find no evidence that the Board discussed Board business after the 
meeting adjourned.  
 
For the
 reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Middleton Zoning Board of Appeals c/o Lisa Brown, Administrative Assistant (via email: 
lisa.brown@middletonma.gov)  
 Ilene Twiss, Middleton Town Clerk (via email: Ilene.Twiss@middletonma.gov) 
Trevor Currier (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
