===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 15,2013 
OML 2013-94 
James D. O'Brien, Jr., Esq. 
Mountain, Dearborn & Whiting LLP 
370 Main St. 
Worcester, MA 01608 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney O'Brien: 
This office received a complaint from Attorney James P. McKenna, on behalf of his 
client, Matthew Hovagimian, dated July 23, 2012, alleging that the Bumcoat Pond Watershed 
District Management Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Committee deliberated outside of a 
meeting when the Chair sent an email to a quorum of the Committee relative to a Petition for 
Exclusion, and also alleges that the Committee held an unnoticed, illegal meeting. The 
complaint was filed with the Committee on or about June 16, 2012. The Committee failed to 
respond to the complaint. 
Following our review, we find that Committee Chair Robert Dirsa violated the Open 
Meeting Law by sending an email to a quorum of the Committee regarding public business 
within its jurisdiction, and that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
respond to a properly filed Open Meeting Law complaint. We decline to review the allegation 
that the Committee held an unnoticed, illegal meeting because the allegation is untimely. 
In reaching our determination, we reviewed the June 16, 2012 complaint filed with the 
Committee and the July 23, 2012 complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed a 
July 29, 2011 letter sent by Attorney McKenna to Committee Chair Dirsa, enclosing a Petition 
for Exclusion submitted by Mr. Matthew Hovagimian. We also reviewed letters sent by 
Attorney McKenna to Committee Chair Dirsa, dated October 28, 2011; December 7, 2011; 
December 9, 2011; and February 22, 2012. We reviewed letters sent by Committee Attorney 
James O'Brien1 to Attorney McKenna, dated December 29, 2011; February 22, 2012; and 
February 28, 2012. We also reviewed a series of emails sent between Committee members. We 
reviewed the minutes of the Committee's December 14, 2011; February 21, 2012; and April 10, 
2012 meetings. Finally, we reviewed the warrant for the District's June 5, 2012 annual meeting. 
1 For purposes of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
The Committee is a five-member public body. On July 29, 2011, Matthew Hovagimian 
served a Petition for Exclusion upon Committee Chair Robert Dirsa. Mr. Hovagimian sought a 
hearing on that petition at the Committee's next meeting. Mr. Hovagimian did not receive a 
response to his petition and request, and sent a second copy to the Committee on October 28, 
2011. Mr. Hovagimian still received no response, and on December 7, 2011 he sent the 
Committee a third request. 
On January 10, 2012, Chair Dirsa sent an email to a quorum of the Committee, writing 
that: 
Attached you will find the response from [District Counsel] O'Brien to Hovagimian's 
desire to be excluded from the district. The management committee must now vote to 
allow this or not. As with Jeff, the best way to handle this is to vote no and then take it up 
as an article at the annual meeting and let the district members decide. Where Jeff is 
already tabled from last annual meeting, this might work in our favor as now it affects all 
members a bit more financially. If Jack, Rudy, and Ed are in attendance tonight you have 
a quorum and can take the vote. Let me know if this does occur so I can notify [District 
Counsel] O'Brien. 
Jim, for the annual meeting, we will need the amount the the [sic] district will lose due to 
Jeff AND Hovagimian being excluded from the district as this was asked last year and 
will be asked again. If the question of "how does this affect each member?" comes up, 
which it will, the answer is the same as when we applied for the USD A loan. Those with 
a lesser evaluation will be affected least and those with a higher evaluation affected more. 
This should be enough to persuade members to vote no on allowing both to be excluded 
from the district as the majority of the members are in the middle to high end of 
evaluation.2 
On February 17, 2012, Committee Attorney O'Brien sent Attorney McKenna a letter 
stating that, "[t]he Management Committee has chosen to deny your client's Petition for 
Exclusion and has deferred any further discussions to the annual meeting of the District which 
will be held in late May or early June at which time an article setting for your client's request 
will be submitted to the entire District for a vote." In a subsequent letter dated February 28, 
2012, Attorney O'Brien writes that "[p]erhaps I should have used the term 'deferred' rather than 
'denied' in response to your correspondence and petition; however, I can assure you it is the 
intent of the Committee to afford your client the full opportunity, with written notice, to have his 
petition considered by the Management Committee and the District. The action taken by the 
Committee to date is not final and is only as a result of the investigation which it has conducted 
in accordance with the Enabling Legislation." 
The Committee held a meeting on February 21, 2012. The minutes include the 
following: 
2 The January 10, 2012 email was discovered by the complainant when the District provided the email, on or about 
June 12, 2012, in response to the Complainant's Public Records request. Because this email was not available to the 
complainant until provided in response to a Public Record request, we find the June 16, 2012 complaint to be timely, 
as it was made within 30 days of reasonable discovery of the alleged violation. See 940 CMR 29.05(3). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Matt Hovgimian [sic] 
o Meeting held in Jan not official therefore no motion could be made to table issue 
o Letter received from Mr. O'Brien to Bob stating that if denial of petition for exclusion is 
given, he has right to petition Superior Court for relief. This will involve additional legal 
fees for the District that he might have to contribute to. 
o Motion to deny made by Bob, and seconded by Jack. All were in agreement, 
o Letter sent from Mr. O'Brien to Atty McKenna informing him of Committee's decision 
to deny petition of exclusion and deferred any further discussions to annual meeting in 
May or June. 
On Friday May 18, 2012, the District ran an advertisement in The Spencer New Leader, 
which provided notice of the District's Annual Meeting, including "Article 6. To see if the 
District will vote to allow Matt Hovagimian to succeed [sic] from the district." On June 5, 2012, 
the District voted during its annual meeting to deny Mr. Hovagimian's request for exclusion 
from the District. 
DISCUSSION 
1. Chair Dirsa Violated the Open Meeting Law by Sending an Email to a Quorum of the 
Committee Regarding Public Business within the Committee's Jurisdiction. 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law therefore requires that "[e]xcept 
as provided in [G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)], all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public." 
G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(a). "Meeting" is defined, in part, as "a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. "Deliberation" is 
defined, in relevant part, as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id. (emphasis added). 
The Committee Chair's January 10, 2012 email, sent to a quorum of the Committee, 
discussed a matter that was before the Committee, and suggested the action he believed the 
Committee should take. Specifically, Chair Dirsa writes that "the best way to handle [Mr. 
Hovagimian's request] is to vote no and then take it up as an article at the annual meeting and let 
the district members decide." This type of communication must occur during a meeting. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2013-29; OML 2012-67 (finding that an email that expresses an opinion 
on matters within the body's jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is deliberation, even if no 
other public body member responds).3 We therefore find that the Chair's January 10, 2012 email 
constituted an individual violation of the Open Meeting Law. Because it does not appear that 
any Committee members responded to the email, we do not find that the Committee as a whole 
violated the law. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
2. The Allegation that the Committee Discussed Mr. Hovagimiarfs Petition Outside of a 
Posted Meeting is Untimely. 
The complaint also suggests that the Committee deliberated outside of a meeting because 
the minutes of the Committee's February 21, 2012 meeting state that, with regards to Mr. 
Hovagimian, a "[mjeeting held in Jan [was] not official therefore no motion could be made to 
table issue." It is unclear exactly what the "unofficial meeting was," but we believe the reference 
may be to the fact that the Committee was unable to achieve a quorum for its January meeting. 
Regardless, this allegation is untimely. The "unofficial" meeting mentioned in the Committee's 
February 21, 2012 minutes was disclosed during the February 21, 2012 open meeting. To be 
timely, a complaint must be filed within 30 days of an alleged violation of the Open Meeting 
Law, or if the alleged violation could not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, 
then within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered. 940 CMR 29.05(3); 
see OML Declination 3-18-13 (Ashfield Board of Selectmen). Here, the alleged violation could 
have been reasonably discovered on February 21, 2012. Therefore, to be timely, the complaint 
should have been filed on or before March 22, 2012. The complaint was filed on June 16, 2012; 
116 days after the alleged violation could have been reasonably discovered. We therefore 
decline to review it. 
3. The Committee Failed to Respond to Attorney McKenna's Open Meeting Law 
Complaint. 
A public body must, within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, send a copy of the 
complaint to the Attorney General and notify the Attorney General of any remedial action taken. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). The public body shall simultaneously notify the 
complainant that it has sent such materials to the Attorney General and shall provide the 
complainant with a copy of the description of any remedial action taken. 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
Attorney McKenna filed his complaint with the Committee on June 16, 2012. After he received 
no response from the Committee, our office sent the Committee a letter on August 6, 2012 
reminding the Committee that it is required to respond to the complaint, and stating that if we did 
not receive a response by August 24, 2012, we would review the complaint based on the 
information before us. In response. Attorney O'Brien wrote a letter to our office dated August 
10, 2012, stating "I have contacted my client and anticipate that we will be able to comply with 
that date to submit a response." 
The Committee did not respond until December 18, 2012, however, at which point 
Attorney O'Brien sent a letter to our office stating, "1 am forwarding to you a packet of 
documents, which include correspondence from Attorney McKenna which, hopefully, responds 
to his requests pursuant to the Open Meeting Law. I can assure you that my client does not want 
to be unresponsive to his requests and we have tried to give him all the information he has 
requested which exists." While we appreciate the amount of material that Attorney O'Brien 
provided our office, he did not provide a response from the Committee directly addressing 
Attorney McKenna's allegations. We therefore find that the Committee failed to respond to 
Attorney McKenna's Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 business-days. At no point did the 
Board request an extension of time to respond to the complaint or provide a reason for its delay. 
By taking nearly six months to respond to the complaint, the Board clearly failed to comply with 
the Law. See OML 2013-83. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that Committee Chair Robert Dirsa violated the 
Open Meeting Law by sending an email to a quorum of the Committee, and that the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to respond to a properly filed Open Meeting Law 
complaint. As for remedy. Attorney McKenna requests that "all action taken relative to the 
Petition for Exclusion of Matthew Hovagimian" be nullified, including the Committee's 
February 21, 2012 vote to deny Mr. Hovagimian's petition. While we find Chair Dirsa's 
violation to be serious, the matter was taken up at a District-wide vote during the District's 
annual meeting on June 5, 2012. We therefore decline to nullify the Committee's vote, but order 
the Committee's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution the 
Committee that a similar future violation may be considered evidence of an intentional violation 
of the law. Additionally, we order the Committee members now serving to attend a training on 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, to be conducted by an attorney or organization 
familiar with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law and approved by this office or, in the 
alternative, to view the training video available at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. All members must certify to our office within sixty (60) days 
after receiving this determination that they have either attended a live training or reviewed the 
online training video. 
We now consider this matter closed. We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the 
parties during this investigation. If you have any questions regarding this letter, or believe any of 
the facts stated are incorrect, please do not hesitate to contact our office at (617) 963-2540. 
Sincerely, 
zf . 
'uiathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Attorney James P. McKenna, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
5 