===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
January 31, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 14 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Kathryn Fallon, Esq. 
Malden City Solicitor  
Office of the City Solicitor 
215 Pleasant Street, Suite 420 
Malden, MA 02148 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Solicitor Fallon: 
This office received two complaints from Brian DeLacey on August 3, 2021, alleging 
that the Malden City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Council on June 15 and June 21, and you  
responded on behalf of the Council by letters dated June 24 and July 12.1 In his complaints, Mr. 
DeLacey alleges that 1) the notice for the Council’s June 8 meeting did not specify that the City 
Solicitor would give a presentation at the meeting,2 and 2) the City Solicitor and Council 
engaged in impermissible deliberation outside of a posted meeting.3, 4  
Following our review, we resolve these complaints by informal action in accordance 
with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Council’s responses to the 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 Mr. DeLacey also alleges that the Council’s notice for a May 11 meeting was similarly deficient. Complaints 
alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the alleged 
violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged violation could not reasonably have been known at the time it 
occurred, then the complaint must be filed within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered. 940 
CMR 29.05(3). When an alleged violation occurs in open session, the alleged violation can reasonably be discovered 
at the time it occurs. See OML 2014-85; OML 2012-52. We decline to review any allegations regarding notices of 
meetings that took place more than 30 days prior to the date the first complaint was filed, June 15. See OML 
Declination 10-9-12 (Falmouth Board of Selectmen). 
3 Mr. DeLacey alleges that the Council should have explained on June 8 why the Council was seeking a legal 
opinion about CORI reports from the City Solicitor. The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body 
explain any particular topic at a meeting. See OML 2020-53. We therefore decline to review this allegation. 
4 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
complaints, and the complainant’s requests for further review, including nine exhibits. We also 
reviewed the notice, minutes and a video recording of the Council’s June 8 meeting.  
1. The notice for the Council’s June 8 meeting was sufficiently specific.  
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post 
notice of each meeting and include in that notice a “listings of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). When reviewing a meeting 
notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting 
notice standing alone. See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155.5 Rather, we review what the public 
body actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently specific to 
make the public aware of the discussion topics. Id.  
 Here, Mr. DeLacey alleges that the notice for the Council’s June 8 meeting did not 
specify that the City Solicitor would give a presentation at the meeting. In relevant part, the 
notice for the Council’s June 8 meeting stated, “Order: That the City Solicitor provide a legal 
review and opinion to the City Council of the current ordinances related to the collection of 
highly sensitive CORI reports. This request is related to Malden Ordinance 6.08.100 and with 
respect to the Mass General Laws; specifically procedures of sharing of these documents via 
hard copy and electronically.” Based on a video recording of the June 8 meeting, we find that the 
City Solicitor did not give a presentation. Rather, the Council’s discussion of the CORI topic 
primarily consisted of the City Clerk reading into the record a legal memorandum which the City 
Solicitor had sent to the full Council earlier on June 8 regarding whether the City’s ordinances 
complied with applicable laws. The Council then voted to place the memorandum on file. A 
public body need not list each and every detail about a topic in order to comply with the Law’s 
requirements. See OML 2019-67; OML 2014-122. Here, the Council’s June 8 meeting notice 
included detailed information on the topic to be discussed, and in particular specified that the 
Council sought the City Solicitor’s legal review and opinion regarding the City ordinances 
related to criminal record information reports.6 As that is in fact what the Council discussed 
during the June 8 meeting, we find no violation of the Law.   
2. We find no evidence of deliberation outside of a posted meeting. 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.” Id. However, there is a narrow exception to the definition of 
 
5 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
6 The Attorney General discourages the use of acronyms on meeting notices where uncommon acronyms may be 
confusing to the public. See OML 2021-13; OML 2015-154. However, we find that CORI is a commonly 
understood acronym that refers to criminal record information reports. We therefore find that the Council’s use of 
the acronym CORI did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
“deliberation” for “the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution 
of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be 
discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18, 
see also OML 2017-17; OML 2016-172. 
 For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the 
members of a public body. Id. A one-way communication from one public body member to a 
quorum on matters within the body’s jurisdiction constitutes deliberation for purposes of the 
Open Meeting Law, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 2016-104; OML 
2015-33; OML 2012-73. A public body may not engage in serial communication whereby a 
quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a subject 
within the public body’s jurisdiction. See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008). 
 Mr. DeLacey alleges that the City Solicitor engaged in impermissible deliberation outside 
of a meeting when she emailed a legal memorandum to the full Council ahead of the June 8 
meeting. The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and individuals acting as public 
body members. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The City Solicitor is not a member of the Council, 
and may express her own opinions to a quorum of the Council outside of a meeting, provided 
that such communication does not constitute serial deliberation between or among a quorum of 
Council members. See OML 2019-140. We have reviewed the memorandum in question, and 
find that it does not contain the opinions of any Council members, and therefore was not part of a 
serial deliberation. For these reasons, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law.  
 Finally, Mr. DeLacey requested that our office review a January 4 email sent by the City 
Solicitor to all members of the Council, which the City Solicitor has consistently claimed is 
exempt — under the attorney-client privilege — from disclosure in response to Mr. DeLacey’s 
public records requests. The Open Meeting Law does not authorize the Attorney General to 
determine whether the Council’s assertion of the attorney-client privilege is justified in response 
to a public records request. See G.L. c. 30A, § 24(e), OML 2014-22; OML 2013-7. We did not 
request to review the January 4 email in camera and make no finding as to whether the Council 
justifiably asserted the attorney-client privilege as a basis for withholding the January 4 email in 
response to Mr. DeLacey’s public records requests. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(f); OML 2020-120. 
We refer Mr. DeLacey to the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s Public Records Division for 
concerns about compliance with the Public Records Law. 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
cc: Brian DeLacey (via e-mail:  
 Malden City Council (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
