===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
December 18, 2020 
 
OML 2020 – 168 
 
 
Gary P. Howayeck, Esq. 
Assistant Corporation Counsel 
City of Fall River 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
 
By e-mail only:  
 
 RE:        Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Howayeck: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on November 25, 2020, alleging 
that the Fall River Board of Assessors (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 5, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated November 25, following an extension of time 
granted by our office.  The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to announce the name of each member who was participating in the October 29 meeting 
remotely.2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We 
also reviewed the video recording of the Board’s October 29 meeting.3  
 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2020.  
2 The complaint states that the Board meeting at issue occurred on November 5; the Board actually met on October 
29. 
3 A video recording of the Board’s October 29 meeting is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YhodE7HzBWY. 
 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On March 10, Governor Charles Baker declared a state of 
emergency in response to the public health emergency created by the outbreak of the 2019 novel 
Coronavirus (“COVID-19”).  See Exec. Order No. 591 (Mar. 10, 2020).  On March 12, Governor 
Baker issued an executive order temporarily suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting 
Law during the state of emergency.  See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”).  The Executive Order 
temporarily suspends the requirements under the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s 
Open Meeting Law regulations that a quorum of a public body, including the chair, be physically 
present at the meeting location and allows all members of a public body to participate in a 
meeting remotely.  All other provisions of the law and regulations regarding remote participation 
remain in effect. 
 
The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on Thursday, October 29 at 4:00 P.M.  
The notice listed the location of the meeting as 1st Floor Hearing Room, One Government 
Center, Fall River, MA.   
 
The October 29 meeting was held as planned in the Hearing Room at One Government 
Center.  Members of the public could attend the meeting in person at One Government Center 
and the meeting was also broadcast online.  All three Board members participated remotely via 
Zoom.  At the beginning of the meeting, the Board’s Administrative Assistant made several 
announcements, including that the meeting was open to the public but attendees must socially 
distance, that members of the Board were participating remotely, and that the meeting was being 
recorded.  The Board then took a roll call vote and Board Chair Richard Gonsalves announced 
each member’s first and last name, including his own, and each member responded that they 
were present. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the  
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of  
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement  
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, §20(a) (except  
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”). 
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as 
to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2020-100; 
OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54.4 
 
The Executive Order suspends the requirement that meetings be physically accessible to 
members of the public, and further temporarily suspends the requirements under the Open 
Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations that a quorum of a 
public body, including the chair, be physically present at the meeting location and allows all 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
members of a public body to participate in a meeting remotely.  See OML 2020-82.  All other 
provisions of the law and regulations regarding remote participation remain in effect, including 
the requirement that “[a]t the start of the meeting, the chair shall announce the name of any 
member who will be participating remotely.  This information shall also be recorded in the 
meeting minutes.”  940 CMR 29.10(7)(b). 
 
On October 29, the Board held a meeting in which all three members participated 
remotely via Zoom.  At the beginning of the meeting, the Board’s Administrative Assistant 
announced that all Board members were participating remotely.  Chair Gonsalves then took a roll 
call vote announcing each member’s name, including his own, and each member responded that 
they were present.  Although the Open Meeting Law states that the chair must announce the 
names of the members who are participating remotely, we have stated that responsibilities of the 
chair may be delegated to another individual.  See, e.g., OML 2019-101 (no violation where 
vice-chair stated the purpose for the executive session in absence of chair); OML 2016-124 (no 
violation where the chair specifically asked legal counsel to state the purpose for the executive 
session on his behalf).  We find that the combination of the Administrative Assistant’s 
announcement that all members were participating remotely followed by the roll call vote taken 
by the Chair clearly and effectively conveyed to the public the identity of all Board members 
who were participating remotely, and fulfilled the transparency goals of the Open Meeting Law.  
Therefore, we do not find a violation of the law.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
  
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
   
 
cc:       Patrick Higgins – By e-mail only:  
 Fall River Board of Assessors c/o Administrative Assistant Nelia Raposo –  
By e-mail only:   
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must 
be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
