===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
September 25, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 120 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Nancy Campany, Esq. 
Murphy, Lamere & Murphy, P.C. 
50 Braintree Hill Office Park, Suite 202 
Braintree, MA 02184-8807  
ncampany@mlmlawfirm.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Campany: 
This office received a complaint from David Manjarrez on March 11, 2020, alleging that 
the Minuteman District School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on January 10, 
and the Committee responded by letter dated January 29.1 In his complaint, Mr. Manjarrez 
alleges that the Committee has improperly withheld from public disclosure portions of several 
sets of executive session minutes and documents used during those executive sessions.2 
Following our review, we find that the Committee impermissibly relied on the Open 
Meeting Law as a basis for withholding certain portions of its August 27, 2012, December 18, 
2012, and February 5, 2013, executive session minutes after the lawful purposes for the 
executive sessions had been served. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further 
review. We also reviewed the documents the complainant received from the public body in 
response to a public records request, including the Committee’s “Key to Redactions.” We 
reviewed in camera, unredacted copies of the Committee’s August 27, 2012, December 18, 2012, 
and February 5, 2013, executive session minutes. We spoke with the complainant by phone on 
June 11 and exchanged emails with him on several occasions in June, July and August 2020. 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 Although the complainant received 38 sets of executive session minutes in response to his public records request, 
the complainant sought our review of only 3 sets of executive minutes and the documents used at those meetings. 
Specifically, the minutes from the executive sessions held on August 27, 2012; December 18, 2012; and February 5, 
2013.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Finally, we exchanged emails with you on several occasions in June, July, August and 
September 2020.   
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On or about August 20, 2012, the Committee received a 
complaint alleging procedural irregularity in certain procurement matters overseen by the 
District’s Superintendent, Dr. Bouquillon.  
On August 27, 2012, the Committee convened in executive session under Purpose 1 to 
discuss the complaint against the Superintendent. The Committee voted to retain the services of 
an independent investigator, the Abrahams Group, to review and investigate the procurement 
allegations. On September 18, 2012, the Committee approved executive session minutes for this 
meeting.3  
On December 17, 2012, the investigative firm sent a final report to the Committee (the 
“Abrahams Report”).  
On December 18, 2012, the Committee convened in executive session under Purpose 3 to 
discuss collective bargaining; under Purpose 1 to continue discussion of the complaint against 
the Superintendent; under Purpose 1 to discuss an Open Meeting Law complaint against the 
Committee; 4 and under M.G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f) to review and approve minutes from previous 
executive sessions. On March 12, 2013, the Committee approved executive session minutes for 
this meeting.5  
On February 5, 2013, the Committee convened in executive session under Purpose 1 to 
continue discussion of the complaint against the Superintendent; under Purpose 3 to discuss 
strategy with respect to litigation involving marketing firm Ovus Ater;6 and under M.G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(f) to review and approve minutes from previous executive sessions. On March 26, 
2013, the Committee approved executive session minutes for this meeting.7  
At the Committee’s April 9, 2013, meeting, upon the conclusion of the investigation into 
the complaint against the Superintendent, the Committee released a Joint Public Statement (the 
 
3 When the Committee later released a redacted version of the minutes to Mr. Manjarrez, the Committee cited to 
Open Meeting Law executive session Purpose 1; and Public Records Law exemptions (c) and (f) as a basis for its 
redactions. 
4 Mr. Manjarrez filed an Open Meeting Law complaint on January 17, 2013, alleging that the Committee discussed 
topics that were improper for executive session during its December 18, 2012 and January 8, 2013 meetings. 
Following a review by our office, we found that the discussions generally fit within the parameters of executive 
session Purpose 1. See OML 2013-131.  
5 When the Committee later released a redacted version of the minutes to Mr. Manjarrez, the Committee cited to 
Open Meeting Law executive session Purposes 1, 3 and 7; Public Records Law exemptions (c) and (f); and the 
attorney-client privilege as a basis for its redactions. 
6 On October 22, 2019, the Committee released to the pubic the sections of the February 5, 2013, and January 8, 
2013, executive session minutes regarding the contract dispute with Ovus Ater. Therefore, we do not analyze this 
portion of the February 5, 2013, executive session minutes.  
7 When the Committee later released a redacted version of the minutes to Mr. Manjarrez, the Committee cited to 
Open Meeting Law executive session Purpose 1; and Public Records Law exemption (c) as a basis for its redactions.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
“Statement”) summarizing the resolution of the complaint. The Superintendent read the 
Statement during an open session.  
The full text of the Statement read: 
On or about August 20, 2012 the School Committee for the Minuteman 
Regional Vocational School District received a complaint alleging procedural 
irregularity by Dr. Bouquillon relative to his involvement in procurement of 
services for the District and supervision of staff allegedly involved in procurement. 
The Committee took immediate steps to address the issues raised in the complaint 
and at a duly held meeting on August 27, 2012 voted to retain the services of an 
independent forensics auditor to review and investigate the allegations raised. After 
issuing a Request for Proposals, the Committee hired the Abrahams Group of 
Framingham. District personnel cooperated fully with the investigation, meeting as 
necessary with the independent auditor. A Final Investigation Report was issued by 
the Abrahams Group dated December 17, 2012, finding some instances where 
procurement statutes and policies were not fully complied with, as well as other 
instances where best practices were not observed by District personnel, but no 
instances of misappropriation of public funds or personal profit by Dr. Bouquillon 
or any other District personnel were identified. Following receipt of the Report, the 
Committee met in duly convened meetings on December 18, 2012, January 8, 2013, 
February 5, 2013 and March 5, 2013 to review the findings with the Superintendent 
of Schools, provide the Superintendent with the opportunity to respond to the 
allegations, and determine appropriate action, consistent with procedures required 
by both Massachusetts law and Dr. Bouquillon’s employment contract with the 
District. 
Dr. Bouquillon has accepted responsibility, as the Superintendent of the 
District, for the irregularities and deficiencies cited in the Abrahams Final 
Investigation Report. Dr. Bouquillon has apologized to the Committee and the 
District for his errors in judgment and lack of supervision of staff involved in these 
matters. In response, the Committee has taken appropriate disciplinary action. As 
this is a personnel matter, the extent of that disciplinary action remains confidential 
under law.  
Moving forward, Dr. Bouquillon and the Committee have secured training 
for District personnel relative to procurement and other municipal finance issues. 
Dr. Bouquillon has instituted changes so the errors cited in the Abrahams Final 
Investigation Report will not occur a gain in the future. In addition, the District’s 
Business Office has been reorganized to institute additional checks and balances 
for procurement and other activities.  
In closing, the School Committee has completed its review of the above -
referenced allegations. By vote of the Committee, a copy of the Abrahams Final 
Investigation Report, with appropriate redactions to protect the privacy rights of 
third parties, has been designated as a public record and is available upon request. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
In July of 2019, Mr. Manjarrez made a public records request for all of the Committee’s 
executive session minutes for the period January 1, 2012, through December 31, 2013. As a 
member of the Committee during that period, Mr. Manjarrez was familiar with the discussions 
that took place. Over the next several months, the Committee’s custodian of records produced a 
total of 38 sets of executive session minutes, the last of which were sent to the complainant by 
email on December 12, 2019.  
Many of the sets of executive session minutes were redacted. Next to each redaction, the 
Committee made a handwritten notation consisting of an alphabetical letter or letters. The 
Committee also provided the complainant a document entitled “Key to Redactions,” which 
specifies the meaning of the Committee’s notations by providing an alphabetical list of the 
Committee’s claimed exemptions, including ongoing Open Meeting Law executive session 
purposes, Public Records Law exemptions, and the attorney-client privilege. An individual 
would need to refer to the “Key to Redactions” to understand the Committee’s notations.  
On January 10, 2020, Mr. Manjarrez filed this Open Meeting Law compliant with the 
Committee. On January 29, the Committee responded to the complaint and maintained that the 
redactions were proper.  
DISCUSSION 
 Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(f). When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any 
documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege 
or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, from 
disclosure. See id. The burden of justifying continued nondisclosure of executive session minutes 
lies with the public body. Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham Regional School Committee, 402 Mass. 
179, 184 (1988); OML 2014-138.8  
 The Division’s jurisdiction in the course of the Open Meeting Law complaint process is 
to review for compliance with the Open Meeting Law. Therefore, we review whether a public 
body may lawfully withhold executive session meeting minutes based on a claim that the lawful 
purpose for the executive session is ongoing. If the public body acknowledges or we find that the 
purpose for the executive session has expired, the public body still may cite to a Public Records 
Law exemption as a reason for continuing to withhold executive session minutes or portions of 
those minutes. Any dispute regarding a public body’s claim that minutes are exempt from 
disclosure pursuant to an exemption in the Public Records Law should be directed to the 
Supervisor of Records in the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s Records Division. Accordingly, 
we discuss below the Committee’s continued reliance on Open Meeting Law executive session 
Purposes 1, 3 and 7, as a basis for withholding certain portions of the three sets of executive 
session minutes and the Abrahams Report; we offer no opinion on whether any exemptions in 
the Public Records Law may authorize withholding those documents.  
 
8 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 In addition, the Open Meeting Law does not authorize the Attorney General to determine 
whether the Committee’s assertion of the attorney-client privilege was justified. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 24(e), OML 2014-22; OML 2013-7. We therefore make no finding as to whether the 
Committee justifiably asserted the attorney-client privilege as a basis for withholding portions of 
the meeting minutes. If the complainant disagrees with the Committee’s claim of privilege, he 
may file an Open Meeting Law complaint in Superior Court to challenge the Committee’s 
decision to withhold the minutes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(f).  
I. Purpose 1: To Discuss a Complaint Against an Employee  
 There are ten purposes for which a public body may enter executive, or closed, session. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One permissible reason to hold an executive session is “[t]o discuss the 
reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, 
of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought 
against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual” (“Purpose 1”). G.L. c. 30A, § 21 
(a)(1); see also OML 2020-76. Under Purpose 1, the individual to be discussed has certain rights, 
including the right to individual notice, to be present at the executive session, to speak on his or 
her behalf, to have counsel present, and to record the executive session. Id.  
 When a public body convenes an executive session under Purpose 1, the purpose for the 
session generally concludes when the public body resolves the matter with the person who is the 
subject of the executive session. See OML 2017-143; OML 2017-175. In this case, the 
Committee met under Purpose 1 at all three meetings to discuss the procurement complaint 
against the Superintendent. The Committee resolved this complaint through a Joint Statement 
which the Superintendent read during the Committee’s April 9, 2013, open session meeting. As 
of its April 9, 2013, meeting, the Committee intended to take no further action and the complaint 
was therefore resolved. As such, the Committee can no longer rely on the Open Meeting Law’s 
Purpose 1 to withhold section of its August 27, 2012, December 18, 2012, and February 5, 2013, 
executive session minutes that relate to the complaint against the Superintendent. G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(f). This also includes any documents that were used at these three meetings that related to the 
complaint, such as the Abrahams Report. Id. However, the Committee may continue to withhold 
the records if the attorney-client privilege or one or more of the exemptions under the Public 
Records Law apply. Id.; OML 2012-106. 
II. Purpose 3: To Discuss Strategy with Respect to Collective Bargaining 
 The Committee cites to Purpose 3 twice to support redactions in the Committee’s 
December 18, 2012, executive session meeting minutes, on pages 1 and 2. Executive session 
Purpose 3 allows a public body to enter executive session to “discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3). A public body may continue to withhold minutes of a Purpose 3 executive session, in 
whole or in part, even after a final collective bargaining agreement has been reached, if the 
public release of those minutes could have a detrimental effect on the public body’s collective 
bargaining position in future negotiations. See OML 2018-19; OML 2012-41. However, they 
may not be withheld indefinitely. At some point, the public interest in transparency will 
outweigh the potential for harm to the public body’s future collective bargaining position. See 
OML 2015-62. After each subsequent collective bargaining agreement is reached, therefore, the 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
burden on the public body to release the executive session minutes of the older sessions 
increases. See OML 2015-52; OML 2012-41.  
 After reviewing the Committee’s December 18, 2012, executive session meeting minutes, 
we believe that the Committee has met this burden with respect to a paragraph on page 2 
underneath item “b. Collective Bargaining.” This section of the minutes relates to collective 
bargaining with the Minuteman Faculty Association (the “MFA”). The Committee asserts that 
the “purpose continues to exist after the executive session has concluded and for some time 
thereafter as the information affects long-term bargaining strategies of the School Committee. 
The same information, considerations, priorities, strategies and tactics which were used in 
negotiating this contract with the MFA will come into play in the negotiation of future contracts 
with that bargaining unit and other bargaining units and revealing those strategies would be 
detrimental to the District in those anticipated future negotiations.” We agree that the publication 
of that portion of the minutes could have a detrimental effect on the public body’s collective 
bargaining position in future negotiations with the MFA. Therefore, the Committee is not 
required to release this portion of the minutes at this time.  
 
 However, the Committee may not withhold under Purpose 3 the sentence under item “a. 
Follow up on grievances” on page 1, as the release of that sentence would not “defeat the lawful 
purposes of the executive session.” See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). This sentence reflects a question by 
a member of the Committee regarding prior grievance matters. The Committee asserts that 
“[d]isclosure of the District’s priorities, strategies and tactics with regard to those three prior 
grievances would be detrimental to the District’s negotiating position with respect to 
administration of the contract as it pertains to that particular employee and/or to other employees 
within that employment unit.” Although the information the Committee member sought may 
have such a detrimental effect, the meeting minutes merely state that the question was asked and 
that an answer was not immediately known but could be provided. We find that the Committee 
has not adequately justified the need for continued nondisclosure of this sentence. Therefore, we 
order the Committee to publicly release this sentence on page 1, unless the attorney-client 
privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies. 
III. Purpose 7: To Comply with a General Law 
 Another permissible reason for a public body to convene in executive session is Purpose 
7, which permits a public body to convene in executive session “to comply with, or act under the 
authority of, any general or special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements.” G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(7). If a public body enters executive session under Purpose 7, it must cite the specific 
general or special law, or federal grant-in-aid requirement, that requires confidentiality or 
requires the public body to meet behind closed doors. See Dist. Attorney for N. Dist. v. School 
Committee of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 569 (2009) (explaining that the proper use of Purpose 7 
to enter executive session requires the enumeration of the enabling law); OML 2013-144. In 
particular, a public body may convene in executive session to review and approve executive 
session minutes under either the original purpose for the executive session, or under Purpose 7 
and citing to the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c.30A, §§ 22(f), (g). 
 The Committee redacted many paragraphs on pages 3-4 and 7 of its February 5, 2013, 
executive session minutes as well as a sentence on pages 3-4 of its December 18, 2012, minutes, 
citing to Purpose 7 and the attorney-client privilege. These sections contain advice from the 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
Committee’s counsel regarding the complaint against the Superintendent, as well as comments 
by members of the Committee. The protection of the attorney-client privilege is not a valid basis 
for claiming applicability of executive session Purpose 7. See OML 2020-50; District Attorney 
for the Plymouth Dist. v. Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 632-634 (1985) (the 
Open Meeting Law constitutes “a statutory public waiver of any possible privilege of the public 
client in meetings of governmental bodies except in the narrow circumstances stated in the 
statute.”); see also Revere Retirement Bd. v. Attorney General, 93 Mass. App. Ct. 1117 (2018) 
(Further Appellate Review denied Sep. 13, 2018). Therefore, the paragraphs in question cannot 
be withheld from disclosure under Purpose 7.  
  In conclusion, we find that, with the exception of the limited redactions under Purpose 3 
described above, the valid purposes for the August 27, 2012, December 18, 2012, and February 
5, 2013, executive sessions have been served, and the Committee may not continue to withhold 
the meeting minutes from the public under the Open Meeting Law. However, we offer no 
opinion as to whether the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law 
may allow the Committee to continue to redact all or portions of the minutes at issue. 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee impermissibly relied on the 
Open Meeting Law as a basis for withholding certain portions of its August 27, 2012, December 
18, 2012, and February 5, 2013, executive session minutes after the lawful purposes for the 
executive sessions had been served. We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Committee that a determination by our office of a 
similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In addition, we order the Committee to disclose portions of its executive session meeting 
minutes in accordance with this order.  
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah (Chase) Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: David Manjarrez (via e-mail: ) 
 Minuteman D
 istrict School Committee c/o Chair Pamela Nourse (via e-mail: 
 ) 
 
 

===PAGE 8===
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 