===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.raass.gov/ago 
February 4, 2015 
OML 2015-20 
Michelle Taparausky, Chair 
Uxbridge School Committee 
62 Capron Street 
Uxbridge, MA 01569 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Taparausky: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Peter Demers, dated November 7, 2014, 
alleging that the Uxbridge School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on 
September 11, 2014, and the Committee responded to the original complaint by letter dated 
September 19, 2014. In his complaint, Mr. Demers alleges that the Committee deliberated 
outside of an open meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing topics within its jurisdiction outside of an open meeting. In reaching a determination, 
we reviewed the original complaint; the Committee's response; and the request for further 
review filed with our office. We also interviewed Mr. Kevin Carney, Superintendent of 
Uxbridge Public Schools, by phone on January 14, 2015, and we reviewed a PowerPoint 
presentation that was given to the Committee on both August 13, 2014 and October 7, 2014. 
Finally, we reviewed the minutes from the Committee's October 7, 2014 meeting. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a seven-member public body that holds 
regular monthly meetings to formulate and adopt policies governing the Uxbridge School 
District. On August 13, 2014, all Committee members attended, at the invitation of 
Superintendent Carney, a "workshop/team building session." Superintendent Carney stated to 
our office that this workshop is an annual event where the Committee members are given a 
preview of the Superintendent's goals for the District, which require Committee approval each 
year. The Committee members then have time to process the information before voting to 
approve the goals during a meeting in October. In addition, at the time the August 13, 2014 
meeting occurred, several members were new to the Committee, and Superintendent Carney 
wanted to meet the new members on a social level. According to the Committee's response, 
during the workshop, "the superintendent and the School Committee briefly conversed about the 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
importance of District Goals, measurements to ensure growth and improvement for the district, 
and the trust that is needed to ensure leadership in the district." While the Committee took no 
votes and engaged in no formal decision making, the Committee discussed with the 
Superintendent how a successful collaboration would be measured. 
The District goals were formally presented to the Committee during a meeting held on 
October 7, 2014. During this meeting, the Committee deliberated regarding the proposed goals, 
with several members voicing concerns and recommending changes. Ultimately, the Committee 
approved the Superintendent's goals unanimously. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post a notice of any meeting at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). For meetings of a local public body, "notice 
shall be filed with the municipal clerk and posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public 
at all hours in or on the municipal building in which the clerk's office is located," unless the 
municipality has adopted an alternative method for posting notices, such as posting to a website. 
Id. at § 20(c); 940 CMR 29.03. A meeting is defined as "a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Deliberation is defined 
in relevant part as, "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is generally a simple 
majority of the members of the public body. Id 
At issue is whether the attendance by a quorum of Committee members at the workshop 
event constituted deliberation outside of a noticed meeting. While the question is a close one, we 
find that some of the matters discussed during the conversation between the Superintendent and 
the Committee are within the Committee's jurisdiction. These items, therefore, should have been 
discussed only during a properly noticed meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The brief 
conversation between the Committee members and the Superintendent involved discussion of 
both interpersonal relationships and how the Committee conducts its business. Discussions 
about personal dynamics generally do not concern public business within the jurisdiction of a 
public body. See OML 2011-38. To the extent that the discussion at issue here covered both 
interpersonal issues and public business- that is, how a successful collaboration between the 
Superintendent and the Committee would be measured- the discussion should have been 
conducted during a meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2011-38. We acknowledge that it can 
be difficult to judge the line between an interpersonal issue and administrative matters that are 
public business within a body's jurisdiction. Because we believe that, here, the Committee and 
the Superintendent were making a good faith effort to address an issue of predominantly 
interpersonal dynamics, we do not find that this was an intentional violation. We note that the 
Committee stated to our office that all future workshops will be noticed to the public. 1 
1 The complaint further states that, following the workshop, Superintendent Carney held a private meeting where he 
"berated [Committee] members for their lack of support for his agenda." This complaint has provided no evidence 
to substantiate these claims, and the Committee denies that any such encounter occurred. Absent any evidence to 
the contrary, we credit the Committee's account of the facts. See OML 2014-122; OML 2013-133. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We do not find that this was an intentional violation of the law. We order the Committee's 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future 
violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
cc: Mr. Peter Demers 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Mangaharo 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3 