===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 1 1, 2016 
OML 2016-105 
Joseph Callanan, Town Solicitor 
Town of Weymouth 
75 Middle Street 
Weymouth, MA 02189 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Callanan: 
This office received a complaint from Christian Schiavone, dated May 24, alleging that 
the Weymouth Superintendent Search Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on April 
15, and, after two extensions of time were granted by this office, the Committee responded by 
letter dated May 19. In his complaint, Mr. Schiavone alleges that the Committee violated the 
Open Meeting Law by: (i) improperly convening in executive session to formulate questions for 
job applicants; (ii) forwarding only one superintendent candidate for final approval; (iii) 
convening in executive session after the purpose had expired; (iv) failing to provide meeting 
minutes within the time frame required by law; and (v) creating insufficiently detailed meeting 
minutes. 
Following our review, we find that we find that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by improperly convening in executive session to formulate questions, forwarding 
only one candidate for final approval, and creating insufficiently specific meeting minutes. We 
find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response, and 
the request for further review filed with our office. We also corresponded with the Weymouth 
Town Solicitor by e-mail on July 27,2 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is an eleven-member subcommittee of the 
Weymouth School Committee (the "School Committee").3 The Committee was created for the 
purpose of interviewing and evaluating applicants for the position of School Superintendent, 
The Committee held initial meetings on March 3 and 8. During these meetings, the 
Committee convened in executive session pursuant to Purpose 8 to develop a set of questions to 
ask the candidates.4 The Committee then held meetings on March 14, 16, and 23, convening in 
executive session pursuant to Purpose 8 to interview five candidates. 
The Committee held a meeting on March 28 to consider the five candidates who had been 
interviewed during the three previous meetings and to narrow the list based on these interviews. 
Again, the Committee convened in executive session pursuant to Purpose 8. A substantial 
portion of the executive session was spent discussing whether the Committee could present a 
single finalist for consideration by the School Committee. The Committee conducted several 
rounds of votes, attempting different methods of evaluating candidates. Ultimately, the 
Committee voted unanimously to present a single finalist to the School Committee. As of the 
time the complaint was filed, the School Committee had not acted on this recommendation. 
On March 31, the complainant requested the minutes of all Committee meetings.5 On 
April 11, the Committee provided the complainant with copies of meeting minutes for all 
Committee meetings except March 28. In its April 11 letter, the Committee stated that this 
production represented the "minutes of all meetings for which the [Committee] approved final 
versions of the executive session minutes." The minutes of the March 14, 16, and 23 executive 
sessions stated that interviews with applicants had taken place, but provided no further detail, 
such as the questions the Committee posed to the applicants or their answers. 
The Committee held a meeting on April 7 for the purpose of approving the minutes of the 
March 28 meeting. Because the executive session minutes contained the names of the 
applicants, the chair made a motion to enter executive session pursuant to Purpose 8. The 
complainant, who was present, informed the Committee that the meeting needed to be conducted 
in open session as the Committee had already provided its recommended candidate to the School 
Committee. Despite the complainant's assertion, a majority of the Committee members voted to 
enter executive session. Once in executive session. Committee member Matthew Tallon asked 
two other members why they had drafted a letter to the Attorney General's Office regarding an 
alleged Open Meeting Law violation. Following a disagreement, one Committee member left 
3 The School Committee consists of seven members, one of whom served on the Committee. 
4 As discussed further below, a preliminary screening committee may convene in executive session to consider or 
interview applicants for employment or appointment. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(8) ("Purpose 8"). 
5 The complainant also requested the resumes of candidates selected for interviews and copies of the questions asked 
of each candidate. Our review concerns only compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. To 
the extent that the complainant may wish to contest the Committee's response under the Public Record Law, we 
refer him to the Supervisor of Records within the Office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth. See G.L. c. 66, § 
10. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
the meeting. After this, the Committee attempted to approve the minutes of its March 28 
meeting, but was unable to agree on the contents of those minutes. 
The present complaint was filed with the Committee on April 15. On May 19, the 
Committee responded by letter. In response to the complaint's allegation that certain meeting 
minutes were insufficiently specific, the Committee amended the minutes of its March 14, 16, 
and 23 executive session minutes. The Committee also provided minutes for its March 28 
meeting. The revised minutes contain more detail regarding the executive session discussions 
that took place with the applicants as well as summaries of the Committee members' discussions 
on each candidate. 
The School Committee held a meeting on May 26. During this meeting, the School 
Committee voted to approve the candidate for the superintendent position put forward by the 
Committee. The new superintendent began work on July 1. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Committee Improperly Convened in Executive Session during its March 3 
and 8 Meetings. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. A public body may enter executive—or closed—session for any of ten purposes. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Among the ten purposes for executive session is Pmpose 8, which allows a 
public body to enter executive session to "consider or interview applicants for employment or 
appointment by a preliminary screening committee if the chair declares that an open meeting will 
have a detrimental effect in obtaining qualified applicants; provided, however, that this clause 
shall not apply to any meeting, including meetings of a preliminary screening committee, to 
consider and interview applicants who have passed a prior preliminary screening." G.L. c, 30A, 
§ 21(a)(8) ("Purpose 8"). The Law defines "Preliminary Screening" as, "the initial stage of 
screening applicants conducted by a committee or subcommittee of a public body solely for the 
purpose of providing to the public body a list of those applicants qualified for further 
consideration or interview." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
The complaint alleges that the Committee improperly met in executive session on March 
3 and 8. During these meetings, the Committee formulated a uniform set of questions to be 
asked of each candidate. Such activity, the complaint alleges, is not within the scope of Purpose 
8. We agree. The Open Meeting Law allows public bodies to convene in Purpose 8 in order to 
undertake two activities, to "consider" or to "interview." The Committee was not conducting 
interviews during these initial meetings. Nor was it considering applicants, as the formulation of 
questions occurs before each individual applicant is being evaluated by the Committee. We 
appreciate the Committee's desire to create the pre-determined list of questions outside of public 
view. However, this activity was not appropriate for closed-door discussion under Pmpose 8 and 
should have been done in open session. Therefore, we find that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law with respect to this allegation. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
II. The Committee Violated the Open MeetinR Law by Submitting a Single 
Applicant for the School Committee's Consideration. 
The complaint further alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
submitting a single applicant for consideration by its parent public body—here, the School 
Committee. Again, we agree. The Open Meeting Law requires that a preliminary screening 
committee, such as the Committee, must narrow the field to two or more candidates for 
consideration by the parent public body. See Commonwealth v. Board of Selectmen of the 
Town of Westborough. 2006 WL 3292678 (Mass. Super. 2006); OML 2013-155.6 Here, the 
Committee provided a single candidate for consideration. We credit the Committee's statement 
that the decision was unanimous, and that all Committee members agreed that the candidate 
presented was the best qualified for the position. Nevertheless, the Open Meeting Law requires 
that a preliminary screening committee provide multiple finalists. This serves an important 
function for public transparency; without it, a preliminary screening committee is free to make 
final hiring decisions behind closed doors, subject only to an up or down vote by the parent 
public body. We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in this respect. 
III. The Committee Entered Executive Session on April 7 for a Valid Purpose. 
A public body may enter executive session to protect confidentiality when approving the 
minutes of a prior executive session. See OML 2014-118. In so doing, the body may use the 
statutory purpose for which the executive session under discussion was originally called. 
Alternatively, the body may state that it will enter executive session under G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(7), to comply with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). Here, the complaint 
alleges that the Committee should not have convened in executive session pursuant to Purpose 8 
on April 7, since the Committee had already recommended a candidate. Because the Committee 
was reviewing the minutes of the March 28 executive session, which had been convened 
pursuant to Purpose 8, we find no violation with respect to this allegation. 
While not raised in the complaint, we note our concern with the discussion that took 
place during the April 7 executive session regarding allegations of a potential Open Meeting Law 
violation. While a public body may meet in executive session to discuss allegations against 
public officials, including alleged violations of the Open Meeting Law, see OML 2015-179, the 
public was given no notice that this discussion would take place. Based on our review of the 
April 7 meeting minutes, it appears that the discussion of the Open Meeting Law allegation was 
not foreseen prior to convening the executive session, and we therefore do not fault the chair for 
failing to announce all topics that may be discussed. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). However, it is 
the chair's obligation during an executive session to keep the body's discussion focused 
narrowly on the lawful topic for which the session was convened. We take this opportunity to 
remind the Committee of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
6 Open Meeting Law determination letters are available at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
IV. The Committee Permissibly Withheld the Draft Minutes of the March 28 and 
April 7 Executive Sessions. 
Under the Open Meeting Law, executive session minutes may be withheld from 
disclosure to the public "as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive 
session, but no longer." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). When the purpose for an executive session has 
been served, however, the minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the session must be 
disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies. 
Id. 
Here, the Committee provided the minutes of many executive sessions to the complainant 
on April 11, but it did not provide the minutes of the March 28 and April 7 executive sessions, 
which were still in draft form at the time. The complaint alleges that, because the Committee 
had already recommended an individual for consideration, the puipose for those executive 
sessions had expired and the Committee therefore should not have witlilield the minutes of those 
meetings. Purpose 8 allows a preliminary screening committee to conduct interviews in private 
where an open meeting would have a detrimental effect in obtaining qualified candidates. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21 (a)(8). We have previously concluded that the purpose for which a preliminary 
screening committee enters executive session may outlast the preliminary screening itself. See 
OML 2012-11; OML 2011-29. Because, at the time of the request, the School Committee had 
not acted on the recommended candidate, the process for which the Committee was formed had 
not been completed. We therefore find that the Committee reasonably concluded that the 
executive session purpose still applied with respect to the March 28 and April 7 draft executive 
session minutes, and we find no violation with respect to this allegation. 
V. The Committee Created Insufficient Meeting Minutes But Took Appropriate 
Remedial Action in Response to the Complaint. 
Under the Open Meeting Law, a public body must create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary 
of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes. G.L. c. 
3OA, § 22(a). When reviewing meeting minutes, we look for substantial compliance with the 
accuracy requirement. See OML 2013-64. The minutes should contain enough detail and 
accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes 
and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See id. 
The Committee provided several sets of minutes to the complainant on May 11. In their 
original form, these minutes lacked sufficient detail to reasonably inform the public as to what 
the Committee discussed. See OML 2014-62. For example, these minutes lacked any 
description of the questions asked by the Committee members, or the answers given by any of 
the applicants. Without this information, members of the public reading the minutes would not 
be able to discern how the Committee reached its decision. In response to the present complaint, 
the Committee amended the minutes to include additional detail, including summaries of the 
discussions that took place during the executive sessions. We consider these amendments to be 
sufficient remedial action. 
5 
===PAGE 6===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We order the Committee's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law's 
requirements, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent 
to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Christian Schiavone, The Patriot Ledger 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
6 