===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
November 5, 2019 
OML 2019-142
Mark Rumley, Esq.
Medford City Solicitor 
City Hall, Room 206 
85 George P. Hassett Drive 
Medford, MA 02155
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Rumley:
This office received a complaint from Brian DeLacey on March 27, 2019, alleging that 
the Medford Ad Hoc Subcommittee to the Malden Hospital Site Development Committee (the 
“Subcommittee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Subcommittee on February 19, 2019, and you responded of behalf of the 
Subcommittee by letter dated March 5, 2019. In his complaint, Mr. DeLacey alleges that the 
Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a public meeting.
We appreciate the patience of the parties during this investigation. Following our review, 
we find that the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the complaint, the Committee’s response and the request for further 
review.1 The request for further review included 16 exhibits, including copies of the emails in 
question.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Subcommittee is a three-member public body 
consisting of John Falco, Breanna Lungo-Koehn and George Scarpelli, all of whom are City 
Councilors for the City of Medford.2 The Subcommittee was created to work with a Committee 
in Malden that is focused on the redevelopment of the now-closed Malden Hospital site to try to 
arrive at a mutually-acceptable plan for both communities. Although the property is almost
1 We decline to review any allegations made in the request for further review. Our office does not conduct broad 
audits of public bodies and will seek to address only allegations made in the OML complaint in order to give a 
public body a chance to address those allegations. See OML 2019-85; OML Declination 4-22-15 (Natick 
Economic Development Committee).
2 The Open Meeting Law’s definition of a “public body” expressly includes subcommittees. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18.

===PAGE 2===
entirely contained within Malden boundaries, the property line abuts Medford and therefore 
Medford residents have taken an interest in the plans for the site.
From December 21 to 28, 2018, all three members of the Subcommittee participated in a 
group email chain with a representative of a community group known as Friends of Fellsmere 
Heights who had created a survey for the Subcommittee to use to gage public opinion about the 
Malden Hospital project. In response to the survey, each member of the Subcommittee 
responded to the group that they thought the survey “looked great.” Ms. Lungo-Koehn further 
commented that a proposed mission statement for the project was “well written[.]”
DISCUSSION
The purpose of the Open Meeting Law is “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
the deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” See Dist. Attorney for N. Dist. 
v. Sch. Comm, of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 563 (2009); Ghiglione v. School Comm, of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Accordingly, the law requires that all meetings of a public 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. In relevant part, a “‘meeting’ is defined as a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. The law defines deliberation as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction^]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (emphasis added). In addition, the 
expression of an opinion by one public body member on matters within the body’s jurisdiction to 
a quorum of a public body is considered a deliberation, even if no other public body member 
responds. See OML 2016-104; OML 2015-33; OML 2012-73.3
Here, when the Subcommittee members replied to the representative about the survey and 
the mission statement and included the entire Subcommittee on their emails, their opinions 
reached a quorum of the public body. We note that if the individual subcommittee members had 
each replied individually back to the representative, and had not included a quorum of the 
Subcommittee on their reply, the replies would not have met the requirement of being “between 
or among a quorum of a public body.” See OML 2018-128; OML 2018-37.
In addition, the subject of the emails was a survey that Friends of Fellsmere Heights had 
created for the Subcommittee to use to gage public opinion about the Malden Hospital project, 
clearly a topic of “public business within its jurisdiction.” See OML 2019-75. These emails 
therefore clearly meet the Open Meeting Law standard for deliberation because the emails were 
“between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” 
Because this deliberation took place outside of a noticed meeting, we find that the Subcommittee 
violated the Open Meeting Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a public meeting. We order the Subcommittee’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Subcommittee that a determination by
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law.
2

===PAGE 3===
our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
Open Meeting Law. We also order that the Committee release to the public, within 30 days 
following its receipt of this determination, the December 21-28, 2018, email chain referenced in 
this letter.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Subcommittee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions.
Sarah Chase
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Brian DeLacey
Medford Ad Hoc Subcommittee to the Malden Hospital Site Development Committee
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3
