===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
July 3, 2019
OML 2019-80
Karis North, Esq.
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410 
Quincy, MA 02169
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Ms. North:
This office received three complaints from Ronald Alexander on November 5, alleging 
that the Natick Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 Between September 19 and September 23, Mr. Alexander filed eight separate Open 
Meeting Law complaints with the Board, and subsequently requested further review by our 
office of six of those complaints. This determination addresses complaints one, two, and three; 
we separately issued a determination, OML 2019-65, addressing complaints four, five, and six. 
These three complaints were originally filed with the Board on September 19 and 20 and you 
responded to the complaints, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated October 10. In complaints 
one and three, Mr. Alexander alleges that the notice for the Board’s August 20 meeting notice 
lacked sufficient detail because it failed to list an open session prior to its executive session 
topics and contain the date and time of posting. In complaint two, Mr. Alexander alleges that 
“[t]he Chair failed to notify all attendees of any recordings.”
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters. Following 
our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include on its 
August 20 meeting notice the date and time the notice was posted, but not in the other ways 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s 
response to the complaints, the complaints filed with our office requesting further review, and
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018, unless otherwise indicated.
1

===PAGE 2===
the Board’s August 20 meeting notice and open session meeting minutes. We also reviewed a 
video recording of the Board’s meeting and spoke with you by phone on June 19, 2019.2
FACTS
The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on August 20 at 6:00 P.M. The notice 
stated as follows:
BOARD OF SELECTMEN 
Edward H. Dlott Meeting Room 
AGENDA 
August 20, 2018 
6:00 PM
Open Session Begins at 7:15 PM
EXECUTIVE SESSION
Real Property
a. Mechanic Street
b. 5 Auburn Street (Riverbend School)
c. 22 Pleasant Street
Litigation: Navy Yard
The notice then listed 11 additional broad topics, under which more specific topics were 
listed for discussion.
The August 20 meeting was held as planned. At 6:03 P.M. the Chairman, Amy Mistrot, 
called the meeting to order and requested that the Board enter into executive session for the 
aforementioned purposes. The Board then approved a vote, by unanimous roll call, to convene 
in executive session. Chair Mistrot announced that the Board would reconvene in open session 
at approximately 7:00 P.M. The Board then met in executive session and reconvened in open 
session at 7:50 P.M. The meeting adjourned at 10:36 P.M.
DISCUSSION
1. The Board’s August 20 Meeting Notice Contained Sufficient Notice That an Open Session
Would be Held.
Prior to entering into executive session, a public body must convene in open session, the 
chair must state the purpose to the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called, and a majority of
2 The video can be found at:
https://videoplaver.telvue.com/plaver/994DtmGEsi0VDYK3iJ12BJ72GfgNIpU2/media/3759867autostart
=fal se&shovvtabssearch=true
2

===PAGE 3===
the members of the public body must vote to enter into executive session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
21(b)(l)-(3). The masthead on the notice for the Board’s August 20 meeting made clear that the 
meeting began at 6:00 PM, but that open session would be held after executive session, stating 
“Open Session begins at 7:15 PM.”
In response to complaint one, we conclude that it was clear that an open session meeting 
would take place on August 20 following the 6:00 P.M. executive session, as the full notice 
provided context placing the executive session as a topic for discussion during an otherwise open 
meeting. When the only business to be discussed during an open session are the procedural 
requirements for entering executive session, we have written that public bodies must list “Open 
Session” on the meeting notice, as this is the only means by which members of the public are 
informed that a public body will, in fact, hold an open meeting that they are permitted to attend. 
See OML 2018-80; OML 2013-9; OML 2012-68.3 Without such notice, members of the public 
are essentially denied the opportunity to attend and learn the reasons for the executive session. 
See OML 2018-80; OML 2013-195. However, where additional open session topics are 
included in a meeting notice, as was the case here, we have not required that a public body list 
“Open Session” as a distinct topic. See OML 2018-80; OML 2015-157; OML 2015-110; OML 
2015-105. We therefore find that the Board was not required to list “Open Session” in its August 
20 meeting notice and did not violate the Open Meeting Law by omitting this statement. 
Nonetheless, we note that in response to the complaints and to provide even greater clarity to the 
public, the Board has voluntarily begun separately listing “Open Session” prior to “Executive 
Session” on its meeting notices. We commend the Board for taking such action.
2. Where There Were no Attendees Present at the Beginning of the Meeting, the Chair Was
Not Required to Announce that the Meeting was Being Recorded.
The Open Meeting Law requires that “[a]t the beginning of the meeting the chair shall inform 
other attendees of any recordings.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). The requirement that the Chair inform 
attendees of any recording includes any recording made by the Board or members of the public 
body itself, including those made for public broadcasting or administrative purposes. See OML 
2017-162; OML 2012-24.
Complaint two alleges that the Chair failed to announce that the August 20 meeting was 
being recorded. Indeed, the meeting was being recorded by Natick Pegasus Inc. In its response, 
the Board does not dispute that the Chair did not make an announcement regarding the recording. 
However, the Board asserts that there were no attendees other than the Board members present at 
the start of the meeting. Unlike, for example, where the Open Meeting Law imposes an absolute 
duty on a Chair to state the purpose for an executive session prior to entering into executive 
session, compare G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3), here the law specifically requires that the Chair “notify 
other attendees.” If there were no other attendees present, there was no obligation to make a 
statement that the meeting was being recorded. We therefore find no violation of the Open 
Meeting Law.
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website,
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
3. The Board’s August 20 Meeting Notice Failed to Include the Date and Time that the
Notice was Posted.
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of all meetings at least 48 
hours in advance, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The 
date and time that the notice is posted must be conspicuously recorded on or with the notice 
itself. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(d). Complaint three alleges that the meeting notice for the August 20 
meeting did not contain the date and time that the notice was posted.4 Here, the Board 
acknowledges that the meeting notice did not include the date and time of posting and has 
committed to including the date and time of posting on future meeting notices. Indeed, we note 
that the Board remedied this issue immediately after the instant complaint was filed, and that 
subsequent meeting notices beginning in September 2018 have included the date and time the 
notice was posted.
Although we find a violation of the Open Meeting Law here and recognize the 
complainant’s role in bringing the issues to the Board’s attention, we also commend the Board 
for taking prompt remedial action to ensure future compliance. We note that at the time the 
complainant filed the complaint with our office for review, the Board had already amended its 
practice and had begun including the date and time of posting on every meeting notice. In 
situations where a violation has been acknowledged and corrective action taken, we urge 
complainants to consider whether it is necessary to forward complaints to this office for further 
review. Pursuing such complaints with this office after a public body has acknowledged its 
violation and pledged to take steps so that it won’t be repeated takes up scarce state and local 
resources without advancing the Open Meeting Law’s goal of improved governmental 
transparency.
CONCLUSION
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include on its 
August 20 meeting notice the date and time that the notice was posted, but not in the other ways 
alleged. We order immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution 
that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complains addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Kathryn Droumbakis
4 Although the complaint alleges that the meeting notice failed to include the date and time the notice was 
posted, the Complainant does not dispute that the notice was posted 48 hours in advance as required.
4

===PAGE 5===
Special Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Natick Board of Selectmen
Ronald Alexander
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
5
