===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 22, 2015 
OML 2015-52 
Joseph A. Emerson, Jr., Esq. 
Emerson & Emerson 
33 Whitney Ave 
Westwood, MA 02090 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Emerson: 
This office received a complaint from Barbara Anzivino, dated December 26, 
2014, alleging that the Stoughton School Committee (the "Committee") violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint challenges the 
Committee's redaction of 17 sets of executive session minutes memorializing the 
Committee's discussion of its collective bargaining strategy with the Stoughton Teachers 
Association Unit A ("Unit A"). Additionally, the complaint alleges that the Committee's 
executive session vote to approve a collective bargaining agreement with Unit A should 
have been conducted in open session. The complaint was filed with the Committee on 
September 23, 2014. The Committee responded on November 12, 2014, following an 
extension of time granted by our office. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this 
matter. Following our review, we find that the Committee may continue to withhold the 
redacted portions of the executive session minutes at issue.1 Additionally, we find that 
the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by voting to approve a collective 
bargaining agreement in executive session. In reaching this determination, we reviewed 
the complaint filed with the Committee, the Committee's response, and the complaint 
filed with our office. We reviewed the public portions of 20 sets of executive session 
minutes from 2014 and reviewed the redacted portions of the same minutes, in camera. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
1 The minutes are for the Committee's executive session meetings held on January 14, January 28, 
February 11, February 25, March 25, April 1, April 29, May 5, May 7, May 13, May 19, May 21, June 2, 
June 16, June 23, June 24, and June 26, 2014. 
A m SEIJJ 
===PAGE 2===
Finally, we reviewed a January 20, 2015 letter from the Committee's attorney, addressed 
to our office. 
FACTS 
The Committee engaged in collective bargaining negotiations with Unit A 
between January and June 2014, reaching an agreement on June 26, 2014. The 
Committee approved the agreement in executive session during its June 26, 2014 
meeting, with approval contingent upon the Stoughton Teachers Association withdrawing 
a lawsuit against the Committee. Following the Stoughton Teachers Association's 
withdrawal of its lawsuit, the Committee publicly released the collective bargaining 
agreement and disclosed its executive session vote, approximately a week after the June 
26, 2014 executive session. 
On August 20, 2014, Ms. Anzivino requested the 2014 executive session minutes 
from the Committee's collective bargaining negotiations with Unit A. The Committee 
provided Ms. Anzivino with 20 sets of executive session minutes. Of those, 17 sets of 
minutes contained some redactions. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Committee may Continue to Withhold from Public Release those Portions of 
its 2014 Executive Session Minutes Concerning Collective Bargaining 
Discussions with Unit A. 
A public body may enter executive—or closed—session for any of ten purposes. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One such purpose allows a public body to enter executive session 
to "discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting 
may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body 
and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). 
A public body must create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, 
including executive sessions. G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(a). The minutes of any executive 
session, as well as the notes, documents, and exhibits used during the executive session 
may be withheld from disclosure to the public as long as "publication may defeat the 
lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer." Id. at § 22(f). Once the purpose 
for which the executive session was held has been served, the minutes, preparatory 
materials and documents and exhibits used at the session shall be disclosed, "unless the 
attorney-client privilege or 1 or more of the exemptions under [the Public Records Law] 
apply to withhold these records, or any portion thereof, from disclosure." Id 
The Committee continues to withhold portions of 17 sets of executive session 
minutes from meetings held between January and June 2014 because the Committee has 
determined that public release of the redacted information may have a detrimental effect 
on its ongoing bargaining position with respect to collective bargaining units representing 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
school district employees. Although the negotiations regarding the Unit A collective 
bargaining agreement have concluded, we agree with the Committee that the executive 
session purpose has not yet expired. The Committee believes that disclosure of the 
unreleased information would harm its position with respect to other bargaining units, or 
in future negotiations with the same unit. 
The Open Meeting Law permits a public body to continue to withhold executive 
session minutes even after a final collective bargaining agreement has been reached, if 
the public release of those minutes could have a detrimental effect on the public body's 
bargaining position in future negotiations. See OML 2012-41. However, they may not 
be withheld indefinitely. At some point, the public interest in transparency will outweigh 
the potential for harm to the public body's future collective bargaining position. After 
each subsequent collective bargaining agreement is reached, therefore, the burden on the 
public body to release the executive session minutes of the older sessions increases. 
Here, after reviewing the 2014 executive session minutes, we believe that the 
Committee has met this burden and may continue to withhold the minutes. However, it 
must periodically review the minutes, and will have to release them at some time in the 
future. We encourage the Committee to review the minutes after the next bargaining 
cycle and consider their public release at that time. 
In her complaint, Ms. Anzivino notes that the Committee's negotiating strategy 
has already been revealed through a public PowerPoint presentation delivered on May 27, 
2014 by Committee Chair Dr. Erdem Ural, entitled "Toward an Everlasting Labor Peace 
in Stoughton." Additionally, she notes, that the Stoughton Teachers Association revealed 
the Committee's strategy to the public in a Massachusetts Teachers Association article. 
She argues that because this strategy has been made public, the Committee may no longer 
assert confidentiality over its related executive session minutes. While some aspects of 
the Committee's general negotiating strategy may have been disclosed to the public, the 
Committee may still withhold portions of executive session minutes where public 
disclosure of specific executive session discussions may defeat the lawful purposes of the 
executive sessions. G.L. c. BOA, § 22(f). 
2. The Committee did not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Voting to Approve a 
Collective Bargaining Agreement in Executive Session. 
Ms. Anzivino alleges that the Committee's June 26, 2014 vote to approve a 
collective bargaining agreement with Unit A should have been conducted in open session 
rather than executive session. Because there are circumstances in which both the 
bargaining and litigating positions of a public body may be detrimentally affected by 
voting on a final collective bargaining agreement in the open, then, if the chair 
determines that such circumstances are present, contract approval may occur in executive 
session if the chair makes the appropriate declaration, and no open session ratification is 
needed. See OML 2013-84; Doherty v. School Committee of Boston. 386 Mass. 643 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
(1982) (holding that closed door votes are permissible where a body meets in executive 
session to protect its litigating position).4 Once a collective bargaining agreement has 
been executed, the public body should publicly announce the agreement in open session 
and describe the terms reached. Ideally, this should occur either during the same meeting 
or at the public body's next scheduled meeting. 
Here, the Committee voted to approve the collective bargaining agreement in 
executive session on June 26, 2014, contingent upon the Stoughton Teachers Association 
withdrawing a lawsuit against the Committee. Because public disclosure of the vote at 
that time had the potential to detrimentally affect both the Committee's bargaining and 
litigating positions, we find that this action was lawful. Following the Stoughton 
Teachers Association's withdrawal of its lawsuit, the Committee publicly released the 
collective bargaining agreement and disclosed its executive session vote, approximately a 
week after the June 26, 2014 executive session. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee may continue to withhold the redacted portions of the 
17 sets of executive session minutes concerning the Committee's 2014 collective 
bargaining discussions with Unit A. Additionally, we find that the Committee did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law by voting to approve a collective bargaining agreement in 
executive session. 
4 See also the Attorney General's Frequently Asked Questions on collective bargaining agreements, 
available at www.mass.gov/ago/openmeetmg: 
May a public body approve a collective bargaining agreement (CBA) with a union in executive 
session? 
A public body may approve final terms and execute a CBA with a union in executive session, but 
should promptly disclose the agreement in open session following its execution. A public body may 
enter executive session under Purpose 2 to "conduct collective bargaining sessions" and under Purpose 
3 to "discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(2), (3). These purposes allow a public body both to discuss collective bargaining 
strategy and to bargain directly with a union in executive session. Id.; see Board of Selectmen of 
Marion v. Labor Relations Commission. 7 Mass. App. Ct. 360 (1979). Unlike the language in Purpose 
2, Purpose 3 does not limit strategy discussions to the preparatory stage, rather it broadly allows a body 
to go into executive session "to discuss strategy" with respect to collective bargaining or litigation any 
time an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the body's bargaining or litigating position and 
the chair so declares. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). Because there are circumstances in which both the 
bargaining and litigating positions of a public body may be detrimentally affected by voting on a final 
CBA in the open, then, if the chair determines that such circumstances are present, contract approval 
may occur in executive session if the chair makes the appropriate declaration, and no open session 
ratification is needed.111 See Dohertv v. School Committee of Boston. 386 Mass. 643 (1982) (holding 
that closed door votes are pennissible where a body meets in executive session to protect its litigating 
position). Once a CBA has been executed, the public body should publicly announce the CBA in open 
session and describe the terms reached. Ideally, this should occur either during the same meeting or at 
the public body's next scheduled meeting. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this 
letter, please do not hesitate to contact this office at (617) 963-2540. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Stoughton School Committee 
Barbara Anzivino 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or 
any member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may 
obtain judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days 
of receipt of a final order. 
5 