===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
May 13, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 100 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Shannon Resnick, Esq. 
Law Office of Shannon D. Resnick, P.C. 
sresnick@resnicklawoffices.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Resnick: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on January 24, 2024, alleging that 
the Brockton City Council (the “Council”), and specifically its president, violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Council on or 
about January 12, 2024, and you responded on behalf of the Council by letter dated January 24, 
2024. The complaint alleges that the minutes of the Council’s December 26, 2023, meeting fail 
to include a list of documents and exhibits used at the meeting. 
 
Following our review, we do not find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Council’s response, the request for further review, the minutes for the Council’s December 26 
meeting, and a video recording of the December 26 meeting.
1 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Minutes must 
include, among other things, “a summary of the discussions on each subject [and] a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting.” Id. The Open Meeting Law does not define 
what it means for a document to be “used” at a meeting. We have explained that a document is 
“used” at a meeting when it is, at a minimum, physically present, verbally identified, and its 
contents are discussed by members of the public body. See OML 2014-146; OML 2019-57; 
 
1 A video recording of the Council’s December 26 meeting may be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5RyYXSpsTGk. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
OML 2012-42.2 Merely mentioning that correspondence had taken place or referencing 
information from within a document does not render the document “used” such that it needs to 
be listed in the meeting minutes. See OML 2024-75; OML 2023-145 (finding that “that merely 
mentioning or referencing information or statistics from within a document did not render the 
source documents ‘used’ such that they needed to be listed in the meeting minutes”); OML 2014-
129. 
 
The complaint does not identify any particular document that it alleges was used at the 
December 26 meeting but not listed in the meeting minutes. After a review of the video 
recording of the December 26 meeting, we could not identify any document that was clearly 
present, verbally identified, and its contents discussed by members of the public body. Because it 
is not clear that any documents were “used” during the meeting such that they were required to 
be listed in the meeting minutes, we do not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law.
3 We note 
that documents referenced in the meeting notice and during the meeting may be public records 
subject to the Public Records Law; however, the Open Meeting Law only requires that 
documents used at a meeting be listed in the meeting minutes. We commend the Council for 
having a system by which it can easily and efficiently locate documents referenced in its 
meetings and on its meeting notices upon request for such records. Because we find that there 
were no documents that were clearly used at the December 26 meeting, we do not address the 
Council’s assertion that its minutes comply with the Open Meeting Law’s requirement to include 
a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Moises M. Rodrigues, Council President (via email: mrodrigues@cobma.us)  
 Timothy J. Cruise, City Clerk (via email: cityclerk@cobma.us) 
Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 Although not raised in the complaint, we remind the Council that simply noting in meeting minutes that Councilors 
commented on a subject does not comply with the requirement to accurately summarize the discussions that 
occurred. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2024-1 (“It is not sufficient to simply include a statement that a specified 
topic was discussed, the law requires that the minutes summarize the discussion that was held. ”). 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 