===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 10, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 102 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Michael A. D’Ortenzio Jr., Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
 
Mdortenzio@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney D’Ortenzio: 
 
This office received a complaint from Maureen Longobardi on February 24, 2026,
1 
alleging that the Middlefield Finance Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about 
January 21, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated February 20. The 
complaint alleges that the Committee deliberated via email outside of a posted meeting. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
way alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Committee’s response, the request for further review, and the minutes of meetings the 
Committee held on January 14 and February 18. We additionally reviewed the three emails sent 
on January 15 that are the subject of the complaint. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Committee is a five-member public body; thus, 
three members constitute a quorum. On January 15, Committee member Louise Harlow sent an 
email with the subject line “HERO ACT” (“email #1”) to Committee Chair Brent LeBeau and 
Committee members Noreen Surnier and Kenneth Murray, thereby reaching a quorum of the 
Committee.
2 In email #1, Member Harlow relayed information she had learned from the 
 
1 All dates are in 2026, unless otherwise stated. 
2 While Brent LeBeau no longer appears under the list of members on the Committee’s webpage, minutes of the 
Committee from early 2026 reflect Mr. LeBeau was Committee chair at the time these emails were sent. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Northampton Veteran Affairs office in regard to provisions of the HERO Act,3 noting how such 
information related to the discussions the Committee had during its meeting the night before, and 
adding that she intended to remove herself as the “point of contact” on the HERO Act. 
 
Three minutes after sending email #1, Member Harlow sent another email to the same 
individuals with the subject line “Veteran Tax Exemption/HERO Act” that forwarded an email 
Member Harlow had received from Central Hampshire Veterans’ Services with links containing 
more information regarding Veteran Tax Exemption and Tax Work-off (“email #2”). Email #2 
did not contain any text written by Member Harlow. It only forwarded the email Member Harlow 
had received from Central Hampshire Veterans’ Services. 
 
About fifteen minutes after email #2 was sent, Committee member Noreen Surnier 
replied all to email #1 (“email #3”). In email #3, Member Surnier stressed the importance of 
prioritizing simple and clear information regarding the HERO Act. Member Surnier added that a 
discussion about HERO Act finances would not be able to move forward at a Town Meeting 
without a clear statement of need and a clear position on the costs of the HERO Act to the Town. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Thus, the law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)(b), 21. The Open Meeting Law defines a “meeting” as “a deliberation 
by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
Deliberation is defined, in relevant part, as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.” Id. However, deliberation does not include “the distribution of 
reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member 
is expressed.” Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is generally a simple 
majority of the members of the public body. Id. Expression of an opinion on matters within a 
public body’s jurisdiction to a quorum of the body is a deliberation, even if no other public body 
member responds. See OML 2014-148; OML 2013-29; OML 2013-27; OML 2012-15.4 
 
Here, Member Harlow sent an email (email #1) to a quorum of the Committee regarding 
the financial impacts of the HERO Act on the Town and its residents. Member Surnier then sent 
a response to email #1 (email #3), also to a quorum of the Committee, expressing her opinions 
on the HERO Act and its costs to the Town, a subject that fell within the jurisdiction of the 
Committee. The Committee acknowledges that email #1 and email #3 constituted deliberation 
outside of an open meeting. We agree and find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law. 
 
3 “An Act Honoring, Empowering, and Recognizing Our Servicemembers and Veterans,” also referred to as the 
HERO Act, was signed by Governor Healey in August 2024, and expands several veteran-related benefits. See 2024 
MASS. ACTS c. 178.  
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
With respect to email #2, the Committee asserts that, although the email was sent to a 
quorum, it did not constitute deliberation where it merely forwarded, without comment, 
information received from Central Hampshire Veterans’ Services. We agree. Where a public 
body member forwards information to a quorum of public body members without including their 
own opinion, we have found that such communication does not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
See OML 2023-139, n.5; OML 2016-172 (finding no violation when public body chair 
forwarded to members emails from other historic districts; forwarded emails fell within narrow 
exception to “deliberation” for distribution of documents to be discussed at a future meeting). 
Here, where email #2 merely forwarded information from Central Hampshire Veterans’ Services 
and included no opinion of the sender, we find email #2 did not constitute deliberation. 
 
We note that the Committee has already taken remedial action in response to this 
complaint. The Committee asserts, in its response, that it referenced the three emails during its 
February 18 meeting, voted to post the three emails to the Town website, and included them in 
the minutes of its February 18 meeting. These actions are reflected in the minutes of the 
Committee’s February 18 meeting. We commend the Committee’s proactive steps to remedy its 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
In the request for further review, the complainant makes several additional allegations 
that were not raised in the original complaint, including a lack of decorum, hostile treatment, and 
a lack of impartiality from specific Committee members. We decline to review allegations that 
were not included within the original complaint to the public body because the public body 
would not have had an opportunity to respond to them. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); see also OML 
2026-6; OML Declination 08-06-25 (Middlefield Select Board); OML 2023-89. None of these 
allegations were raised in the original complaint, and as such, we must decline to review them. 
Furthermore, even if true, such allegations would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting 
Law. Although we discourage uncivil and unprofessional behavior, we have previously declined 
to review allegations of hostile treatment and unprofessional conduct. See OML 2026-98; OML 
Declination 05-25-2023 (Westminster Planning Board); OML 2019-138, n.2.  The complainant 
also alleges the uncivil behavior   
 
The request for review also alleges an intentional violation of the Open Meeting Law.  
Assuming, arguendo, that an allegation of intentionality is reviewable if raised for the first time 
in a request for review, we find no intentional violation here for two reasons.  First, the request 
for review implies that the intentional violation concerned “inappropriate remarks” made by 
members.  As noted above, lack of decorum and hostile treatment do not constitute violations of 
the Open Meeting Law.  Second, even if the complainant alleges that the violation we find here 
(deliberation outside a meeting) was intentional, there is no basis for such a finding.  Research of 
our prior determinations failed to uncover any prior violation by the Board in the past five years 
of the Law as to deliberation.  See 940 CMR 29.02 (providing that evidence that a public body 
“was previously informed by receipt of a decision from a court of competent jurisdiction or 
advised by the Attorney General, pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07 or 940 CMR 29.08, that the 
conduct violates M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25” may serve to establish that the violation was 
intentional). 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it deliberated via e-mail outside of a posted meeting. We order the Committee’s immediate 
and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar future violations 
could be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. Because the Committee has already 
referenced the three emails during its February 18 meeting, and posted the three emails along 
with the February 18 minutes to the Town website, we do not order any further remedy. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
Assisted by Ian Harvey, Legal Intern 
 
cc: Maureen Longobardi (via email: ) 
Middlefield Town Clerk: (via email: middle
 field.clerk@gmail.com) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
