===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
February 3, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 18 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Latrina Denson 
President, Pioneer Valley Performing Arts  
Charter Public School Board of Trustees 
 
Ldenson@pvpa.org  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Latrina Denson: 
 
This office received two complaints from Emily Pfeiffer on December 24, 2025, alleging 
that the Pioneer Valley Performing Arts Charter Public School Board of Trustees (the “Board”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The complaints were originally filed 
with the Board on November 24.  You responded to both complaints on behalf of the Board by 
email on January 21, 2026.2  The complaints allege that (1) the Board was biased in its selection 
of written submissions attached to the minutes of a meeting it held on October 21; (2) notice of 
the Board’s November 21 meeting was not posted in a timely manner; (3) notice of the Board’s 
November 21 meeting misstated the topic to be discussed in executive session; (4) the November 
21 meeting, which was held remotely, could not be accessed by the public until approximately 
20 minutes after the posted start time; (5) a real time transcript of the November 21 executive 
session was available to members of the public through a link in the zoom chat; and (6) Board 
members were provided minutes of executive sessions that took place prior to some members 
joining the Board, with instructions to delete the minutes after reading them.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
went forward with the November 21 meeting without timely notice and when it admitted 
members of the public 20 minutes late.  We find that the notice of the November 21 meeting 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The Board is reminded that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, 
the public body review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the complainant a 
response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint, 
the response and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  After the 
response deadline passed, our office followed up with the Board at least twice before receiving a response.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
sufficiently identified the executive session topic.  We decline to review the remaining 
allegations of the complaints.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting 
Law complaints, the Board’s response, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We 
also reviewed notice of a meeting held on March 26, minutes of the October 21 meeting, and the 
notice and minutes of the November 21 meeting.  We reviewed a partial transcript of the 
executive session that was held on November 21.  Finally, we communicated with the 
complainant by email and by telephone. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On November 19, at 7:23 p.m., the Board posted notice of a 
“special” meeting to be held entirely remotely on November 21 at 1:00 p.m.  The notice included 
the following executive session topic: 
 
Discuss and vote on executive session minutes from March 26, 2025: 
“Executive session under G.L. c. 30A, section 21(a)(3) to discuss strategy with respect 
to collective bargaining (collective bargaining with UAW, Local 2322) or litigation if an 
open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of 
the public body and the chair so declares.
3 
 
The notice included a link to access the meeting by Zoom.  Members of the public who 
attempted to join the meeting remotely were not let in from the Zoom waiting room until at least 
20 minutes after the posted start time of the meeting.  The Board has explained that the delay 
was due to technical difficulties.   
 
During the open session on November 21, a link appeared in the Zoom chat box.  The 
link allowed access in real time to a transcript of the Board’s discussion, including the discussion 
held in executive session.  The complainant has provided us with printed screen shots of the 
transcript of the executive session.  Because these documents represent a transcript generated in 
real time, they are at times redundant and can be difficult to follow.  However, it is clear from the 
transcript of the November 21 executive session that one member, perhaps the chair, circulated 
minutes of the March 26 executive session to members of the Board with a request that they read 
them and then delete them.  During the November 21 executive session, the Board discussed “a 
possible threat of litigation.”  A member stated that release of “this information” (presumably 
information contained in the March 26 executive session minutes) may impact negotiations to 
resolve the possible litigation.  The Board further discussed the schools’ efforts to address the 
underlying claims that were the subject of the March 26 executive session.  Following this 
discussion, the Board voted to continue to withhold the minutes of the March 26 executive 
session.   
 
Just as the Board was about to adjourn the executive session, one member raised the issue 
of the delayed commencement of the open session.  This member noted that after the meeting 
started late, a member of the public had emailed the Board expressing concern about what the 
Board was doing during the delay.  Upon the suggestion of this Board member, another member 
agreed to respond to the email with an explanation that technical difficulties were to blame for 
 
3 The topic has an open quotation mark as indicated but does not have a closed quotation mark. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
the delay.  Finally, while still in executive session, the Board also discussed who should be 
provided with a key fob to the school building.  The Board reconvened in open session for the 
sole purpose of adjourning the meeting.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. Notice of the November 21 meeting was not posted timely. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  To that end, a public body must post notice of every 
meeting at least 48 hours in advance of the meeting, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal 
holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Notice of the November 21 meeting was posted approximately 
42 hours prior to the meeting, a fact not contested by the Board.  Because notice was not posted 
48 hours in advance of the meeting, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
 
II. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it admitted members of the 
public to the November 21 meeting approximately 20 minutes late.4 
 
Notice of a meeting must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Id.  Meetings of a public 
body must be open to members of the public, except during an executive session.  See G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 20(a), 21.  Public bodies are permitted to meet entirely remotely, provided that the 
public body provides adequate, alternative means of public access to the deliberations of the 
public body.  “Adequate, alternative means” may include, without limitation, providing public 
access through telephone, internet, or satellite enabled audio or video conferencing or any other 
technology that enables the public to clearly follow the proceedings of the public body in real 
time.  G.L. c. 20, § 20(b); Chapter 2 of the Acts of 2025; OML 2025-179; OML 2022-122; OML 
2021-135.
5   When all public body members participate in a meeting remotely or when a public 
body meets in person without providing the public physical access to the meeting location, the 
public body must then provide the public with adequate, alternative access to the meeting, which 
requires access to the proceedings in real time.  See OML 2023-52; OML 2020-111; OML 2020-
100; Chapter 20, § 20(b).  
 
A public body may briefly delay starting a posted meeting without running afoul of the 
Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2013-72.  However, if the meeting is significantly postponed, or 
rescheduled, the body must post notice 48 hours in advance of the new meeting.  Id.  When a 
public body meets remotely, it must provide the public with timely access.  See OML 2025-60 
(Committee violated Open Meeting Law where notice included ineffectual Zoom link and 
correct link was not posted until meeting started).  We previously found that it is unacceptable 
for members of the public to have to wait 30 minutes in a Zoom waiting room prior to admission 
to a meeting.  See OML 2022-122.  That the delay may have been due to technical difficulties 
 
4 It is somewhat unclear when the meeting started.  Whether the meeting started on time but the public was admitted 
20 minutes late, or the meeting started 20 minutes late, our analysis here is the same. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
does not excuse the Board from the requirements of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2022-180 
(finding public body in violation of Open Meeting Law when it proceeded with meeting despite 
learning that technical problems prevented public access to meeting in real time); OML 2021-
166 (same).  As the complainant points out, members of the public wishing to join the meeting 
might have abandoned their efforts after being left in the waiting room for up to 20 minutes.  
Under the circumstances, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Finally, we must determine whether this violation was, as the complainant urges, 
intentional.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public 
body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 29.02. 
An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of 
the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law.  Id.  We previously noted our concern with notices posted by the Board that gave 
the impression that the Board would convene directly in executive session without first meeting 
in open session.  See OML 2025-167.  Although the violations at issue here also risk 
discouraging public attendance, they did not implicate the same provision of the Open Meeting 
Law.  Therefore, we decline to find the violation intentional. 
 
III. The Board’s description of the November 21 executive session complied with the 
Open Meeting Law. 
 
As explained above, notice of the November 21 meeting was not posted timely.  Because 
the entire notice was non-compliant with the Open Meeting Law for failure of being posted 
timely, it is not necessary to review the substance of the notice.  Nonetheless, to provide 
guidance to the Board and to the complainant, we review the allegation that notice of the 
November 21 executive session was not sufficiently specific. 
 
According to the notice of the November 21 meeting, the Board anticipated that it would 
“[d]iscuss and vote on executive session minutes from March 26, 2025: ‘Executive session under 
G.L. c. 30A, section 21(a)(3) to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining (collective 
bargaining with UAW, Local 2322). . . .”     
 
A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, provided that it complies with certain procedural 
requirements.  G.L. c. 30A, § 21.  A public body may convene in executive session “to comply 
with, or act under the authority of, any general or special law or federal grant-in-aid 
requirements.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7) (“Purpose 7”).  A public body entering executive session 
under Purpose 7 must state the specific law that requires the public body to keep its deliberations 
confidential unless doing so would compromise the purpose for the closed door session.  See 
District Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. Of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 569 (explaining 
proper use of Purpose 7 to enter executive session requires enumeration of enabling law).  A 
public body may convene in executive session to review and approve executive session minutes 
under Purpose 7, citing to the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c.30A, §§ 22(f), (g).  See OML 2025-75; 
OML 2023-131; OML 2020-120.  In the alternative, a public body may convene in executive 
session to review and approve executive session minutes by citing to the original purpose of that 
executive session.  See OML 2025-75.  In its notice of the November 21 executive session, the 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Board referenced the original purpose of the March 26 executive session the minutes of which it 
planned to review.  Based on the information before us, the November 21 executive session 
discussion did center on whether to release the March 26 executive session minutes.  Pursuant to 
the transcript provided to us by the complainant, the Board discussed the status of pending 
claims and efforts of school staff to address them.  The review of the March 26 minutes 
occasionally threatened to evolve into a general discussion of threatened litigation rather than the 
minutes themselves.  Nonetheless, we find that any discussion of litigation fell within the context 
of a release of the executive session minutes, as the discussion ended with a vote to continue to 
withhold the minutes in light of the pending claims.  The description of the executive session 
therefore complied with the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Although we find no violation as to this allegation, we take this opportunity to note other 
concerns we have about the November 21 executive session.  Our first concern relates to the 
Board’s designation of the November 21 meeting as a “special board meeting.”  Based upon the 
transcript of the November 21 executive session, it appears that the Board adopted the label 
“special board meeting” in response to the determination we issued on October 21.  See OML 
2025-167.  In that determination, we explained that the notice must apprise the public that the 
public body will meet in open session prior to convening in executive session.  To that end, the 
public would be better served by a notice that explicitly lists an “open session,” followed by 
topics to be discussed therein, and as a separate item an “executive session,” including all the 
information required to list an executive session.  Although we appreciate the Board’s efforts at 
transparency, the term “special meeting” has no meaning under the Open Meeting Law.  The 
Law recognizes only a “meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  During the course of a meeting, a public 
body may meet either in open sessions or, if circumstances permit, in executive session.  For 
clarity’s sake, we recommend that the Board use the terminology set out in the Open Meeting 
Law. 
 
Second, the Board held seemingly spontaneous discussions in executive session about the 
technical difficulties that delayed commencement of the meeting and about key fobs, two topics 
that were not listed on the notice of the November 21 meeting.  Based upon our reading of the 
transcript, it does not appear that these discussions were anticipated 48 hours prior to the 
meeting.  However, regardless of whether they were anticipated, these topics were inappropriate 
for executive session.  A public body may meet in executive session only for one or more of the 
ten purposes set out in the Open Meeting Law.  G.L. c. 30A, § 21.  Executive session purposes 
are to be narrowly construed.  See OML 2025-122; 2022-9; OML 2020-76.  The discussions of 
key fobs and technical difficulties did not fall within any of the ten purposes and should not have 
been had in executive session.   
 
Our third concern about the November 21 executive session relates back to the March 26 
executive session that was the subject of discussion.  We have not requested or reviewed minutes 
of the March 26 executive session.  Based upon the transcript of the November 21 executive 
session, we understand that the Board met in executive session on March 26 to discuss 
threatened litigation.  However, the notice of the March 26 meeting does not identify the 
litigation.  When convening in executive session under Purpose 3 to discuss litigation strategy, 
both the meeting notice and the announcement before entering the executive session must 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
identify the litigation matter to be discussed, if doing so will not compromise the executive 
session purpose.  See OML 2025-185; OML 2020-47; OML 2012-89.   
 
IV. We decline to review the remaining allegations of the complaints. 
 
A. Minutes of the October 21 meeting 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions.”  G.L. c. 30A § 22(a).  The minutes must set forth 
“the date, time and place [of the meeting], the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  Id.  The 
complainant alleges that minutes of the October 21 meeting reflect that the Board “continues to 
avoid including statements from the public with its minutes.”  There was no public comment 
during the October 21 meeting.  Rather, the complainant alleges that the Board was biased in its 
selection of what written submissions from the public were attached to the minutes.  There is 
nothing within the Open Meeting Law that requires a public body to attach written submissions 
to the minutes.  The Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to attach any documents 
to meeting minutes.  See OML Declination 9-22-15 (Townsend Conservation Commission); 
OML 2012-91.  The Board is reminded that minutes must include a list of all documents used by 
a public body during the meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); see also OML 2015-56 (a document 
is considered “used” when it is, at a minimum, physically present, verbally identified, and its 
contents are discussed by members of the public body during a meeting.)  
 
B. Access to executive sessions 
 
Finally, the complainant alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in its 
handling of the confidentiality of executive sessions.  During the November 21 executive 
session, the Board used an automated note taking tool which made it possible for members of the 
public to view a transcript of the executive session in real time.  Although this oversight 
compromised the secrecy of the executive session, it did not implicate any provisions of the 
Open Meeting Law.  The Open Meeting Law allows public bodies to discuss certain topics 
behind closed doors.  G.L. c. 30A, § 21.  However, the Open Meeting Law does not require that 
public body members keep topics discussed in executive session confidential prior to the 
approval and release of the executive session minutes nor does the law impose penalties for 
members’ failure to do so.  See OML 2023-26; OML 2014-91.  Therefore, the disclosure of 
information discussed in executive session sooner than required does not constitute a violation of 
the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2023-26; 2014-91.  See also OML 2011-29 (“The Open 
Meeting Law is silent about the responsibilities of individual public body members to maintain 
the confidentiality of executive session minutes.”).  Even if taken as true, the complainant’s 
allegation regarding the accidental public generation of an executive session transcript in real 
time does not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  Similarly, the forwarding of 
unreleased executive session minutes to new members of the Board does not implicate any 
provision of the Open Meeting Law.  We express no opinion as to whether other laws, including 
those enforced by the State Ethics Commission, may require public body members to maintain 
the confidentiality of such sessions.  
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting notice less than 48 hours prior to the meeting it held on November 21 and by delaying 20 
minutes prior to admitting members of the public from the Zoom waiting room.  We order the 
Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and we caution the Board 
that a future finding of an intentional violation of the Open Meeting Law may result in a civil 
penalty of up to $1,000 per violation.  Additionally, in light of the diverse ways in which the 
Board has seemingly misunderstood the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, we order all 
members of the Board to attend a webinar training on the Open Meeting Law conducted by our 
office within the next 90 days and to certify to our office that they have done so.
6 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc:  Emily Pfeiffer (via email: ) 
Pioneer Valley Performing Arts Charter Public School Board of Trustees (via email:  
trustees@pvpa.org) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
6 Information about our webinars can be found on the Attorney General’s website: https://www.mass.gov/info- 
details/open-meeting-law-trainings.  
