===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 15, 2016 
OML 2016-110 
James F. Wellock, Esq. 
Assistant City Solicitor 
375 Merrimack Street, 3rd Floor 
Lowell, MA 01852 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Wellock: 
This office received a complaint from Laura and Miguel Ortiz, dated July 5, 2016, 
alleging that the Lowell School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on March 9, 
2016, and the Committee responded by letter dated May 19, 2016.2 In their complaint, the 
Ortizes allege that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely provide 
meeting minutes and other documents in response to a request.3 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to provide meeting minutes within the time-frame required by law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response, and the request 
for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed minutes and video recordings of a 
Joint Policy and Student Support Services Subcommittee meeting held on June 24, 2015 and a 
1 We note that the complaint is also addressed to the City of Lowell and the Lowell Public School District. Because 
the City and the School District are not public bodies within the meaning of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 
18, we do not review the allegations against them. 
2 We remind the Committee that unless an extension of time has been granted, a public body must, within 14 
business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, send a copy of the complaint to the Attorney General's 
Office and notify the Attorney General's Office of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 
29.05(5). Here, the complainants filed their original complaint with the Committee on March 9, but the Committee 
did not respond for over two months. 
3 In their request for further review, the complainants include additional allegations that were not included in the 
original complaint filed with the Committee, particularly regarding the sufficiency of meeting notices posted in June 
and July 2015. Because these additional allegations were not included in the original complaint, we do not review 
them. See OML 2016-43, n. I. Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
Committee meeting held on July 15, 2015.4 Finally, we spoke with Ms. Ortiz by telephone on 
July 18 and July 26, 2016, and the Assistant City Solicitor by telephone on July 19 and August 3, 
2016.5 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a seven-member public body. The 
Mayor of Lowell acts as the chair. The Committee has several subcommittees, to which 
members of the Committee are assigned. In 2015, these subcommittees included the Policy 
Subcommittee and the Student Support Services Subcommittee. The Policy Subcommittee, 
chaired by Committee member Kim Scott, included Committee members Kristin Ross-Sitcawich 
and David Conway, as well as Administrative Representative Jay Lang. The Student Support 
Services Subcommittee, chaired by Ms. Ross-Sitcawich, included Ms. Scott and Mr. Conway, as 
well as Administrative Representative Jeannine Durkin. While appointed as members of the 
Subcommittees, Mr. Lang and Ms. Durkin were not members of the Committee. 
On June 24, 2015, the Policy Subcommittee and the Student Support Services 
Subcommittee held a meeting to discuss revisions to the Parent and Student Handbooks and 
proposed Lowell Public School policies. The notice for this meeting described it as a Joint 
Policy and Student Support Services Subcommittee ("Joint Subcommittee") Meeting. One of the 
policies discussed at this meeting was the Lowell Public Schools' Life Threatening Allergic 
Reactions and Epi-Pen Policy (the "Policy") for students with asthma, diabetes, epilepsy and 
other medical conditions. The video recording of the June 24, 2015 Joint Subcommittee meeting 
shows that there was substantial discussion regarding the Policy, including numerous changes 
and additions to the Policy presented by the Nurse Coordinator for the City of Lowell, Lesa 
Breault-Gulbicki. After some questions and comments. Committee members Ross-Sitcawich 
and Scott voted to recommend that the full Committee approve the Policy as presented. The 
minutes approved for the June 24, 2016 meeting state that Ms. Breault-Gulbicki "presented a 
proposed Life Threatening Allergic Reactions and Epi-Pen Policy for the subcommittee's review 
and approval," but do not include any of the substantive discussion that occurred at the meeting. 
On July 15, 2015, the Committee held a noticed meeting, during which the Mayor moved to 
approve the draft Policy as recommended by the Joint Subcommittee. The Committee voted to 
approve the Policy without any further discussion. 
On January 28, 2016, the complainants sent a four-page e-mail to the Committee, the 
City of Lowell, and the Lowell School District requesting various documents. Specifically, the 
complainants requested copies of "Any and All List(s) of Attendees, Any and All Note(s) 
including Any/All Executive Session Notes and Any and All Notices [ ] posted and list of where 
they were posted" for all meetings from 2013 to 2016 related to the Policy. However, the 
request did not specifically state that the complainants were also seeking minutes for all meetings 
related to the Policy. On February 14, 2016, the complainants sent a follow-up e-mail to Mayor 
4 See http://www.lowell.kl2.ma.us/pages/lpsd/depts/School_Cominittee/Meeting_Videos/Subcommittee_Meetiiigs 
(June 24, 2015 meeting); http://www.ltc.org/watch/channel-99/school-committee-on-demand/(July 15, 2015 
meeting). 
5 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Edward J. Kennedy, Superintendent Salah Khelfaoui, and City Solicitor Christine O'Connor 
reiterating their request for the above documents. 
On February 16, 2016, Mayor Kennedy called the complainants to acknowledge their 
request for documents and to obtain more information regarding their request. At that time, the 
complainants did not clarify that they were also looking for meeting minutes, but rather again 
referred Mayor Kennedy to their original January 28, 2016 request. On March 9, 2016, the 
complainants filed the present Open Meeting Law complaint with the Committee. In this 
complaint, the complainants specifically stated that they were seeking meeting minutes in 
addition to all other documents contained in their January 28, 2016 and February 14. 2016 
requests. 
On April 14, 2016, our office contacted the City Solicitor's Office and informed the 
office that the Committee must respond to the complaint or assign the complaint to counsel to 
respond. The Committee scheduled discussion of the Open Meeting Law complaint for its next 
regularly scheduled meeting on May 4, 2016, and copies of the complaint were disseminated to 
all members of the Committee. On May 2 and 3, 2016, the City Solicitor's Office provided the 
complainants with the meeting notices, minutes and all related documents discussed at the 
Committee meeting held on July 15, 2015, and the Joint Subcommittee meeting held on June 24, 
2015. The Committee held its May 4, 2016 meeting as planned, discussed the Open Meeting 
Law complaint, and referred the complaint to the City Solicitor's office for response.6 On May 
6, 2016, the City Solicitor's Office e-mailed the complainants a link to the recording of the 
Channel 22 broadcast of the Joint Subcommittee meeting held on June 24, 2015. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The "minutes of an open session, if they 
exist and whether approved or in draft form, shall be made available upon request by any person 
within 10 days." Id. Furthermore, "[u]pon request by any person to inspect or copy the minutes 
of an executive session or any portion thereof, the body shall respond to the request within 10 
days following receipt and shall release any such minutes not covered by an exemption." Id. at § 
22(g)(2). 
6 While not raised in the initial complaint, we take this opportunity to remind the Committee of its obligations for 
posting meeting notices. We note that the Committee failed to post on the notice for its May 4 meeting a topic 
related to discussion of this Open Meeting Law complaint. The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post 
notice of each meeting "at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays" 
and that every notice must include "the date, time and place of such meeting and listings of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies must list topics for 
discussion with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 
940 CMR 29.03(1 )(b). Here, the members of the Committee anticipated discussing the Open Meeting Law 
complaint at its May 4 meeting, and thus the discussion should have been included on the agenda. See OML 2016-
13. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
The complainants allege that the Committee failed to provide meeting minutes within ten 
days of a request.7 While the complainants' January 28, 2016 e-mail and February 16, 2016 
conversation with Mayor Kennedy did not specifically mention meeting minutes, the March 9, 
2016 complaint explicitly stated that the complainants had been seeking meeting minutes. 
Therefore, we find that the Committee was notified of the complainants' request for meeting 
minutes at that time, and thus was obligated to respond within the statutorily prescribed period of 
ten days. See id. at § 22(a). However, the Committee did not provide the requested meeting 
minutes until May 2 and 3, 2016—more than 50 days after the filing of the Open Meeting Law 
complaint. Because the Committee failed to provide meeting minutes within ten days upon 
request, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2013-59. 
The complainants also allege that they still have not received minutes for all meetings 
from 2013 to 2016 related to the Policy. The Assistant City Solicitor stated to our office that the 
June 24 and July 15, 2015 meetings were the only meetings that he was aware of which 
discussed the Policy. Absent evidence to the contrary, we find that the Committee provided the 
complainants with minutes for all meetings related to the Policy as requested. 
While not raised in the complaint, we note that the minutes provided for the June 24, 
2015 Joint Subcommittee meeting lacked sufficient detail. Minutes must contain enough detail 
and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the 
minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2014-10; OML 2013-16. 
Here, the June 24, 2015 Joint Subcommittee meeting minutes provided to the 
complainants fail to reflect that any substantive discussion took place. The video recording of 
this meeting shows that there was significant substantive discussion on the Policy, including 
various revisions to the Policy presented by Ms. Breault-Gulbicki. However, the minutes merely 
state that Ms. Breault-Gulbicki "presented a proposed Life Threatening Allergic Reactions and 
Epi-Pen Policy for the subcommittee's review and approval" with no further explanation or 
detail of the discussion that occurred. A member of the public who did not attend this meeting 
would not be able to read these minutes and understand the nature of the Joint Subcommittee's 
substantive policy discussion. We encourage the Committee to revise the minutes of the June 
24, 2015 Joint Subcommittee meeting to include further detail. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to provide meeting minutes in a timely manner. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar conduct in the future may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. 
7 The complainants also asked the Committee for its meeting notes, meeting notices, and lists of attendees for all 
meetings related to the Policy. The Open Meeting Law governs requests for meeting minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 22. 
Requests for other documents are governed by the Public Records Law, G.L. c. 66, § 10. Our review concerns only 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, thus we decline to review the allegation as it pertains to documents other 
than minutes and refer the complainants to the Supervisor of Records within the Secretary of the Commonwealth's 
office if they wish to appeal the Committee's response. See OML 2016-91, n. 2. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Laura and Miguel Ortiz 
Lowell School Committee 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
5 