===PAGE 1===
Open Meeting Law Guide
and Educational Materials
*
COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
OFFICE OF ATTORNEY GENERAL
ANDREA JOY CAMPBELL
JUNE 2025
1| Page
===PAGE 2===
2 | Page  
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Contents 
 
Open Meeting Law Guide 
 
Overview ..................................................................................................................................... 5  
Purpose of the Law ......................................................................................................................... 5 
Attorney General’s Authority ......................................................................................................... 5 
Certification .................................................................................................................................... 5 
Open Meeting Law Website ........................................................................................................... 6 
Meetings of Public Bodies ............................................................................................................ 6  
What meetings are covered by the Open Meeting Law? ............................................................... 6 
What constitutes a public body? .................................................................................................... 7 
What constitutes a deliberation? ................................................................................................... 7 
What matters are within the jurisdiction of the public body? ....................................................... 8 
What are the exceptions to the definition of a meeting? .............................................................. 8 
Notice.......................................................................................................................................... 9  
What are the requirements for posting notice of meetings? ........................................................ 9 
What are the requirements for filing and posting meeting notices for local public bodies? ........ 9 
What are the requirements for posting notices for regional, district, county and state public 
bodies? ................................................................................................................................................ 10 
A note about accessibility ............................................................................................................. 10 
What information must meeting notices contain? ...................................................................... 11 
Executive Session ....................................................................................................................... 11 
When can a public body meet in executive session? ................................................................... 12 
The Ten Purposes for Executive Session ...................................................................................... 12 
Remote Participation ................................................................................................................. 16 
May a member of a public body participate remotely? ............................................................... 16 
What are the acceptable means of remote participation? .......................................................... 17 
What are the minimum requirements for remote participation? ............................................... 17 
What procedures must be followed if remote participation is used at a meeting? .................... 17 
Public Participation .................................................................................................................... 18 
What public participation in meetings must be allowed? ........................................................... 18 
===PAGE 3===
3 | Page  
 
Minutes ..................................................................................................................................... 18 
What records of public meetings must be kept? ......................................................................... 18 
Open Session Meeting Records .................................................................................................... 19 
Executive Session Meeting Records ............................................................................................. 20 
Open Meeting Law Complaints ................................................................................................... 20 
What is the Attorney General’s role in enforcing the Open Meeting Law? ................................. 20 
What is the Open Meeting Law complaint procedure? ............................................................... 21 
When is a violation of the law considered “intentional”? ........................................................... 22 
Training on the Open Meeting Law ............................................................................................. 23 
Contacting the Attorney General ................................................................................................ 23 
The Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25 .............................................................................. 25 
940 CMR 29.00:  Open Meeting Law Regulations ..................................................................... 36 
Certificate of Receipt of Open Meeting Law Materials ................................................................ 48 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 | Page  
 
Dear Massachusetts Residents:   
 
One of the most important functions of the Attorney General’s Office is to facilitate openness 
and transparency for state and local government, through our Division of Open Government. 
For our democracy to work, the public must have access to and understand the reasoning 
behind government policy decisions. Without that access, government lacks the accountability 
that ensures true public representation.   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that most meetings of public bodies be held in public, and it 
establishes rules that public bodies must follow in the creation and maintenance of records 
relating to those meetings.   
 
Our Division of Open Government works with our community partners to promote and provide 
educational materials about the Open Meeting Law, like this Guide.  We provide outreach and 
training sessions to ensure that public bodies and residents understand their rights and 
responsibilities under the law.   
 
Whether you are a town clerk or town manager, a member of a public body, or a concerned 
resident, you are taking part in a tradition that is a cornerstone of Massachusetts: an active and 
engaged public. 
  
I want to thank you for taking the time to understand the Open Meeting Law.  
  
For additional guidance on the law, I encourage you to contact my Division of Open 
Government at (617) 963-2540 or visit our website at www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting for 
more information.  
  
With Gratitude,  
 
  
Attorney General Andrea Joy Campbell  
  

===PAGE 5===
5 | Page  
 
Attorney General’s  
Open Meeting Law Guide 
Overview 
Purpose of the Law          
The purpose of the Open Meeting Law is to ensure transparency in the deliberations on 
which public policy is based.  Because the democratic process depends on the public having 
knowledge about the considerations underlying governmental action, the Open Meeting Law 
requires, with some exceptions, that meetings of public bodies be open to the public.  It also 
seeks to balance the public’s interest in witnessing the deliberations of public officials with the 
government’s need to manage its operations efficiently.   
 
Attorney General’s Authority         
The Open Meeting Law was revised as part of the 2009 Ethics Reform Bill, and now 
centralizes responsibility for statewide enforcement of the law in the Attorney General’s Office.  
G.L. c. 30A, § 19(a).  To help public bodies understand and comply with the law, the Attorney 
General has created the Division of Open Government.  The Division of Open Government 
provides training, responds to inquiries, investigates complaints, and when necessary, makes 
findings and orders remedial action to address violations of the law.  The purpose of this Guide 
is to inform elected and appointed members of public bodies, as well as the interested public, 
of the basic requirements of the law. 
 
Certification           
Within two weeks of a member’s election or appointment or the taking of the oath of 
office, whichever occurs later, all members of public bodies must complete the attached 
Certificate of Receipt of Open Meeting Law Materials certifying that they have received these 
materials, and that they understand the requirements of the Open Meeting Law and the 
consequences of violating it.  The certification must be retained where the public body 
maintains its official records.  All public body members should familiarize themselves with the 
Open Meeting Law, the Attorney General’s regulations, this Guide, and Open Meeting Law 
determinations issued to the member’s public body within the last five years in which the 
Attorney General found a violation of the law.   
 
===PAGE 6===
6 | Page  
 
In the event a Certificate has not yet been completed by a presently serving member of 
a public body, the member should complete and submit the Certificate at the earliest 
opportunity to be considered in compliance with the law.  A public body member must sign a 
new Certificate upon reelection or reappointment to the public body but need not sign a 
Certificate when joining a subcommittee. 
 
Open Meeting Law Website         
This Guide is intended to be a clear and concise explanation of the Open Meeting Law’s 
requirements.  The complete law, as well as the Attorney General’s regulations, training 
materials, and determinations and declinations as to complaints can be found on the Attorney 
General’s Open Meeting website, www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law.  Members of public 
bodies, other local and state government officials, and the public are encouraged to visit the 
website regularly for updates on the law and the Attorney General’s interpretations of it. 
Meetings of Public Bodies 
What meetings are covered by the Open Meeting Law?      
With certain exceptions, all meetings of a public body must be open to the public.  On 
June 16, 2021, Governor Charles Baker signed into law An Act Relative to Extending Certain 
COVID-19 Measures Adopted During the State of Emergency, Chapter 20 of the Acts of 2021 
(“Chapter 20”).  Relevant to the Open Meeting Law, Section 20 of Chapter 20 allows public 
bodies to provide the public with “adequate, alternative means” of public access to a meeting, 
rather than in-person access to a meeting.  “Adequate, alternative means” of access includes 
access through telephone, internet or satellite enabled audio or video conferencing or any 
other technology that enables the public to clearly follow the proceedings of the public body 
while those activities are occurring.  The Attorney General encourages public bodies to provide 
multiple methods of access to a meeting when feasible to maximize access and transparency, 
but only one method of access—in-person or remote—is required by the law.  The provisions in 
Section 20 of Chapter 20 of the Acts of 2021 allowing a public body to provide “adequate, 
alternative” means of public access rather than in-person access expire on June 30, 2027, 
unless further extended. 
 
A meeting is generally defined as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any 
matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  As explained more fully below, a deliberation is a 
communication between or among members of a public body.   
 
These four questions will help determine whether a communication constitutes a 
meeting subject to the law:   
 
1) is the communication between or among members of a public body;  
2) if so, does the communication constitute a deliberation;  
===PAGE 7===
7 | Page  
 
3) does the communication involve a matter within the body’s jurisdiction; and  
4) if so, does the communication fall within an exception listed in the law?  
 
What constitutes a public body?         
While there is no comprehensive list of public bodies, any multi-member board, 
commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branches1 of state 
government, or within any county, district, city, region or town, if established to serve a public 
purpose, is subject to the law.  The law includes any multi-member body created to advise or 
make recommendations to a public body, and also includes the governing board of any local 
housing or redevelopment authority, and the governing board or body of any authority 
established by the Legislature to serve a public purpose.  The law excludes the Legislature and 
its committees, bodies of the judicial branch, and bodies appointed by a constitutional officer 
solely for the purpose of advising a constitutional officer.   
 
Boards of selectmen and school committees (including those of charter schools) are 
certainly subject to the Open Meeting Law, as are subcommittees of public bodies, regardless 
of whether their role is decision-making or advisory.  Individual government officials, such as a 
town manager or police chief, and members of their staff are not subject to the law, and so 
they may meet with one another to discuss public business without needing to comply with 
Open Meeting Law requirements.  This exception for individual officials to the general Open 
Meeting Law does not apply where such officials are serving as members of a multiple-member 
public body that is subject to the law. 
 
Bodies appointed by a public official solely for the purpose of advising the official on a 
decision that individual could make alone are not public bodies subject to the Open Meeting 
Law.  For example, a school superintendent appoints a five-member advisory body to assist her 
in nominating candidates for school principal, a task the superintendent could perform herself.  
That advisory body would not be subject to the Open Meeting Law.
2 
 
What constitutes a deliberation?        
The Open Meeting Law defines deliberation as “an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body 
on any public business within its jurisdiction.”  Distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling or 
procedural information, or reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting is often 
helpful to public body members when preparing for upcoming meetings.  These types of 
communications generally will not constitute deliberation, provided that, when these materials 
are distributed, no member of the public body expresses an opinion on matters within the 
body’s jurisdiction.  Additionally, certain communications that may otherwise be considered 
 
Although the Legislature itself is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, certain legislative 
commissions must follow the Law’s requirements. 
2 See Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991). 
===PAGE 8===
8 | Page  
 
deliberation are specifically exempt by statute from the definition of deliberation (for example, 
discussion of the recess and continuance of a Town Meeting pursuant to G.L. c. 39, § 10A(a) is 
not deliberation).     
 
To be a deliberation, the communication must involve a quorum of the public body.  A 
quorum is usually a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Thus, a communication 
among less than a quorum of the members of a public body will not be a deliberation, unless 
there are multiple communications among the members of the public body that together 
constitute communication among a quorum of members.  Courts have held that the Open 
Meeting Law applies when members of a public body communicate in a serial manner in order 
to evade the application of the law.   
 
Note that the expression of an opinion on matters within the body’s jurisdiction to a 
quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no other public body member responds.  For 
example, if a member of a public body sends an email to a quorum of a public body expressing 
her opinion on a matter that could come before that body, this communication violates the law 
even if none of the recipients responds.  
 
What matters are within the jurisdiction of the public body?     
The Open Meeting Law applies only to the discussion of any “matter within the body’s 
jurisdiction.”  The law does not specifically define “jurisdiction.”  As a general rule, any matter 
of public business on which a quorum of the public body may make a decision or 
recommendation is considered a matter within the jurisdiction of the public body.  Certain 
discussions regarding procedural or administrative matters may also relate to public business 
within a body's jurisdiction, such as where the discussion involves the organization and 
leadership of the public body, committee assignments, or rules or bylaws for the body.  
Statements made for political purposes, such as where a public body’s members characterize 
their own past achievements, generally are not considered communications on public business 
within the jurisdiction of the public body. 
 
What are the exceptions to the definition of a meeting?      
There are five exceptions to the definition of a meeting under the Open Meeting Law.   
 
1. Members of a public body may conduct an on-site inspection of a project or program; 
however, they may not deliberate at such gatherings; 
2. Members of a public body may attend a conference, training program or event; 
however, they may not deliberate at such gatherings;  
3. Members of a public body may attend a meeting of another public body provided that 
they communicate only by open participation; however, they may not deliberate at such 
gatherings; 
4. Meetings of quasi-judicial boards or commissions held solely to make decisions in an 
adjudicatory proceeding are not subject to the Open Meeting Law; and 
===PAGE 9===
9 | Page  
 
5. Town Meetings, which are subject to other legal requirements, are not governed by the 
Open Meeting Law.  See, e.g. G.L. c. 39, §§ 9, 10 (establishing procedures for Town 
Meeting). 
 
The Attorney General interprets the exemption for “quasi-judicial boards or 
commissions” to apply only to certain state “quasi-judicial” bodies and a very limited number of 
public bodies at other levels of government whose proceedings are specifically defined as 
“agencies” for purposes of G.L. c. 30A.  
 
We have received several inquiries about the exception for Town Meeting and whether 
it applies to meetings outside of a Town Meeting session by Town Meeting members or Town 
Meeting committees or to deliberation by members of a public body – such as a board of 
selectmen – during a session of Town Meeting.  The Attorney General interprets this exemption 
to mean that the Open Meeting Law does not reach any aspect of Town Meeting.  Therefore, 
the Attorney General will not investigate complaints alleging violations in these 
situations.  Note, however, that this is a matter of interpretation and future Attorneys General 
may choose to apply the law in such situations. 
 
Notice 
What are the requirements for posting notice of meetings?     
Except in cases of emergency, a public body must provide the public with notice of its 
meeting 48 hours in advance, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  Notice of 
emergency meetings must be posted as soon as reasonably possible prior to the meeting.  Also 
note that other laws, such as those governing procedures for public hearings, may require 
additional notice.   
 
What are the requirements for filing and posting meeting notices for local public bodies? 
           
For local public bodies, meeting notices must be filed with the municipal clerk with 
enough time to permit posting of the notice at least 48 hours in advance of the public meeting.  
Notices may be posted on a bulletin board, in a loose-leaf binder, or on an electronic display 
(e.g. television, computer monitor, or an electronic bulletin board), provided that the notice is 
conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in, on, or near the municipal building in which the 
clerk’s office is located.  In the event that meeting notices posted in the municipal building are 
not visible to the public at all hours, then the municipality must either post notices on the 
outside of the building or adopt the municipal website as the official method of notice posting. 
 
Prior to utilizing the municipal website, the Chief Executive Officer of the municipality 
must authorize or vote to adopt such website as the official method of posting notice.  The 
clerk of the municipality must inform the Division of Open Government of its notice posting 
method and must inform the Division of any future changes to that posting method.  Public 
===PAGE 10===
10 | Page  
 
bodies must consistently use the most current notice posting method on file with the Division.  
A description of the website, including directions on how to locate notices on the website, must 
also be posted on or adjacent to the main and handicapped accessible entrances to the building 
where the clerk’s office is located.  Note that meeting notices must still be available in or 
around the clerk’s office so that members of the public may view the notices during normal 
business hours.   
 
What are the requirements for posting notices for regional, district, county and state public 
bodies?           
For regional or district public bodies and regional school districts, meeting notices must 
be filed and posted in the same manner required of local public bodies in each of the 
communities within the region or district.  As an alternative method of notice, a regional or 
district public body may post a meeting notice on the regional or district public body’s website.  
The regional school district committee must file and post notice of the website address, as well 
as directions on how to locate notices on the website, in each city and town within the region 
or district.  A copy of the notice must be filed and kept by the chair of the public body or the 
chair’s designee. 
 
County public bodies must file meeting notices in the office of the county 
commissioners and post notice of the meeting in a manner conspicuously visible to the public 
at all hours at a place or places designated by the county commissioners for notice postings.  As 
an alternative method of notice, a county public body may post notice of meetings on the 
county public body’s website.  The county public body must file and post notice of the website 
address, as well as directions on how to locate notices on the website, in the office of the 
county commissioners.  A copy of the notice shall be filed and kept by the chair of the county 
public body or the chair’s designee.   
 
State public bodies must post meeting notices on the website of the public body or its 
parent agency.  The chair of a state public body must notify the Attorney General in writing of 
the specific webpage location where notices will be posted and of any subsequent changes to 
that posting location.  A copy of each meeting notice must also be sent to the Secretary of 
State’s Regulations Division at regs@sec.state.ma.us.   
 
Where a public body adopts a website as the official method of posting notices, it must 
make every effort to ensure that the website is accessible at all hours.  If a website becomes 
inaccessible within 48 hours of a meeting, not including Saturdays, Sundays or legal holidays, 
the website must be restored within six business hours of the discovery.  If the website is not 
restored within six business hours, the public body must re-post notice of its meeting to 
another date and time, in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law.  
  
A note about accessibility         
===PAGE 11===
11 | Page  
 
Public bodies are subject to all applicable state and federal laws that govern accessibility 
for persons with disabilities.  These laws include the Americans with Disabilities Act, the federal 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and state constitutional provisions.  For instance, public bodies that 
adopt website posting as an alternative method of notice must ensure that the website is 
readily accessible to people with disabilities, including individuals who use screen readers.  All 
open meetings of public bodies must be accessible to persons with disabilities.  Meeting 
locations must be accessible by wheelchair, without the need for special assistance.  Also sign 
language interpreters for deaf or hearing-impaired persons must be provided, subject to 
reasonable advance notice.
3  The Attorney General’s Civil Rights Division is available to answer 
questions about accessibility and may be reached at (413) 523-7710.  
What information must meeting notices contain?      
Meeting notices must be posted in a legible, easily understandable format; contain the 
date, time, and place of the meeting, including instructions for accessing the meeting if public 
access is by remote means; and list all topics that the chair reasonably anticipates, 48 hours in 
advance, will be discussed at the meeting.  The list of topics must be sufficiently specific to 
reasonably inform the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  Where there are no 
anticipated topics for discussion in open session other than the procedural requirements for 
convening an executive session, the public body should list “open session” as a topic, in 
addition to the executive session, so the public is aware that it has the opportunity to attend 
and learn the basis for the executive session.   
 
Meeting notices must also indicate the date and time that the notice was posted, either 
on the notice itself or in a document or website accompanying the notice.  If a notice is revised, 
the revised notice must also conspicuously record both the date and time the original notice 
was posted as well as the date and time the last revision was posted.  Recording the date and 
time enables the public to observe that public bodies are complying with the Open Meeting 
Law’s notice requirements without requiring constant vigilance.  Additionally, in the event of a 
complaint, it provides the Attorney General with evidence of compliance with those 
requirements.   
 
If a discussion topic is proposed after a meeting notice is posted, and it was not 
reasonably anticipated by the chair more than 48 hours before the meeting, the public body 
should update its posting to provide the public with as much notice as possible of what subjects 
will be discussed during the meeting. Although a public body may consider a topic that was not 
listed in the meeting notice if it was not anticipated, the Attorney General strongly encourages 
public bodies to postpone discussion and action on topics that are controversial or may be of 
particular interest to the public if the topic was not listed in the meeting notice. 
 
Executive Session 
 
3 The Massachusetts Commission for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing will assist with arrangements for a sign 
language interpreter.  The Commission may be reached at 617-740-1600 VOICE and 617-740-1700 TTY. 
===PAGE 12===
12 | Page  
 
When can a public body meet in executive session?      
While all meetings of public bodies must be open to the public, certain topics may be 
discussed in executive, or closed, session.  Before going into an executive session, the chair of 
the public body must first: 
 
• Convene in open session;  
• State the reason for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called;   
• State whether the public body will reconvene in open session at the end of the 
executive session; and   
• Take a roll call vote of the body to enter executive session. 
 
Where a public body member is participating in an executive session remotely, the 
member must state at the start of the executive session that no other person is present or able 
to hear the discussion at the remote location.  The public body may authorize, by a simple 
majority vote, the presence and participation of other individuals at the remote participant’s 
location. 
 
While in executive session, the public body must keep accurate records, all votes taken 
must be recorded by roll call, and the public body may only discuss matters for which the 
executive session was called.  
 
The Ten Purposes for Executive Session        
The law states ten specific purposes for which an executive session may be held, and 
emphasizes that these are the only reasons for which a public body may enter executive 
session.  
 
The ten purposes for which a public body may vote to hold an executive session are: 
 
1. To discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than 
professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, 
or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or 
individual.  The individual to be discussed in such executive session shall be notified in 
writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session; 
provided, however, that notification may be waived upon written agreement of the 
parties.  
 
This purpose is designed to protect the rights and reputation of individuals. 
Nevertheless, where a public body is discussing an employee evaluation, considering 
applicants for a position, or discussing the qualifications of any individual, these 
discussions should be held in open session to the extent that the discussion deals with 
issues other than the reputation, character, health, or any complaints or charges against 
===PAGE 13===
13 | Page  
 
the individual.  An executive session called for this purpose triggers certain rights for the 
individual who is the subject of the discussion.  The individual has the right to be 
present, though he or she may choose not to attend.  The individual who is the subject 
of the discussion may also choose to have the discussion in an open meeting, and that 
choice takes precedence over the right of the public body to go into executive session. 
 
While the imposition of disciplinary sanctions by a public body on an individual 
fits within this purpose, this purpose does not apply if, for example, the public body is 
deciding whether to lay off a large number of employees because of budgetary 
constraints. 
 
2. To conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel 
or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion 
personnel; 
 
Generally, a public body must identify the specific non-union personnel or 
collective bargaining unit with which it is negotiating before entering into executive 
session under Purpose 2.  A public body may withhold the identity of the non-union 
personnel or bargaining unit if publicly disclosing that information would compromise 
the purpose for which the executive session was called.  While we generally defer to 
public bodies’ assessment of whether the inclusion of such details would compromise 
the purpose for an executive session, a public body must be able to demonstrate a 
reasonable basis for that claim if challenged. 
 
While a public body may agree on terms with individual non-union personnel in 
executive session, the final vote to execute such agreements must be taken by the 
public body in open session.  In contrast, a public body may approve final terms and 
execute a collective bargaining agreement in executive session, but should promptly 
disclose the agreement in open session following its execution.   
 
Collective Bargaining Sessions:  These include not only the bargaining sessions, 
but also include grievance hearings that are required by a collective bargaining 
agreement. 
 
3. To discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the 
public body and the chair so declares; 
 
Generally, a public body must identify the collective bargaining unit with which it 
is negotiating or the litigation matter it is discussing before entering into executive 
session under Purpose 3.  A public body may withhold the identity of the collective 
bargaining unit or name of the litigation matter if publicly disclosing that information 
would compromise the purpose for which the executive session was called.  While we 
generally defer to public bodies’ assessment of whether the inclusion of such details 
===PAGE 14===
14 | Page  
 
would compromise the purpose for an executive session, a public body must be able to 
demonstrate a reasonable basis for that claim if challenged. 
 
Collective Bargaining Strategy:  Discussions with respect to collective bargaining 
strategy include discussion of proposals for wage and benefit packages or working 
conditions for union employees.  The public body, if challenged, has the burden of 
proving that an open meeting might have a detrimental effect on its bargaining position.  
The showing that must be made is that an open discussion may have a detrimental 
effect on the collective bargaining process; the body is not required to demonstrate a 
definite harm that would have arisen.  At the time the executive session is proposed and 
voted on, the chair must state on the record that having the discussion in an open 
session may be detrimental to the public body’s bargaining or litigating position. 
 
Litigation Strategy:  Discussions concerning strategy with respect to ongoing 
litigation obviously fit within this purpose but only if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the litigating position of the public body. Discussions relating to 
potential litigation are not covered by this exemption unless that litigation is clearly and 
imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely.  That a person is represented 
by counsel and supports a position adverse to the public body’s does not by itself mean 
that litigation is imminently threatened or likely.  Nor does the fact that a newspaper 
reports a party has threatened to sue necessarily mean imminent litigation.   
 
Note:  For the reasons discussed above, a public body’s discussions with its 
counsel do not automatically fall under this or any other purpose for holding an 
executive session. 
 
4. To discuss the deployment of security personnel or devices, or strategies with respect 
thereto; 
 
5. To investigate charges of criminal misconduct or to consider the filing of criminal 
complaints; 
 
This purpose permits an executive session to investigate charges of criminal 
misconduct and to consider the filing of criminal complaints.  Thus, it primarily involves 
discussions that would precede the formal criminal process in court.  Purpose 1 is 
related, in that it permits an executive session to discuss certain complaints or charges, 
which may include criminal complaints or charges, but only those that have already 
been brought.  However, Purpose 1 confers certain rights of participation on the 
individual involved, as well as the right for the individual to insist that the discussion 
occur in open session.  Purpose 5 does not require that the same rights be given to the 
person who is the subject of a criminal complaint. To the limited extent that there is 
overlap between Purposes 1 and 5, a public body has discretion to choose which 
purpose to invoke when going into executive session. 
 
===PAGE 15===
15 | Page  
 
6. To consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair 
declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating 
position of the public body; 
 
Generally, a public body must identify the specific piece of property it plans to 
discuss before entering into executive session under Purpose 6.  A public body may 
withhold the identity of the property if publicly disclosing that information would 
compromise the purpose for which the executive session was called.  While we 
generally defer to public bodies’ assessment of whether the inclusion of such details 
would compromise the purpose for an executive session, a public body must be able to 
demonstrate a reasonable basis for that claim if challenged. 
 
Under this purpose, as with the collective bargaining and litigation purpose, an 
executive session may be held only where an open meeting may have a detrimental 
impact on the body’s negotiating position with a third party.  At the time that the 
executive session is proposed and voted on, the chair must state on the record that 
having the discussion in an open session may be detrimental to the public body’s 
negotiating position. 
 
7. To comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or special law or federal 
grant-in-aid requirements; 
 
There may be provisions in state statutes or federal grants that require or 
specifically allow a public body to consider a particular issue in a closed session.  Before 
entering executive session under this purpose, the public body must cite the specific law 
or federal grant-in-aid requirement that necessitates confidentiality.  A public body may 
withhold that information only if publicly disclosing it would compromise the purpose 
for which the executive session was called.  While we generally defer to public bodies’ 
assessment of whether the inclusion of such details would compromise the purpose for 
an executive session, a public body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for 
that claim if challenged. 
 
8. To consider or interview applicants for employment or appointment by a preliminary 
screening committee if the chair declares that an open meeting will have a 
detrimental effect in obtaining qualified applicants; provided, however, that this 
clause shall not apply to any meeting, including meetings of a preliminary screening 
committee, to consider and interview applicants who have passed a prior preliminary 
screening; 
 
This purpose permits a hiring subcommittee of a public body or a preliminary 
screening committee to conduct the initial screening process in executive session.  This 
purpose does not apply to any stage in the hiring process after the screening committee 
or subcommittee votes to recommend candidates to its parent body.  It may, however, 
include a review of résumés and multiple rounds of interviews by the screening 
===PAGE 16===
16 | Page  
 
committee aimed at narrowing the group of applicants down to finalists.  At the time 
that the executive session is proposed and voted on, the chair must state on the record 
that having the discussion in an open session will be detrimental to the public body’s 
ability to attract qualified applicants for the position.  If the public body opts to convene 
a preliminary screening committee, the committee must contain less than a quorum of 
the members of the parent public body.  The committee may also contain members 
who are not members of the parent public body. 
 
Note that a public body is not required to create a preliminary screening 
committee to consider or interview applicants.  However, if the body chooses to 
conduct the review of applicants itself, it may not do so in executive session. 
 
9. To meet or confer with a mediator, as defined in section 23C of chapter 233, with 
respect to any litigation or decision on any public business within its jurisdiction 
involving another party, group or entity, provided that: 
 
(i) any decision to participate in mediation shall be made in an open session and the 
parties, issues involved and purpose of the mediation shall be disclosed; and 
 
(ii) no action shall be taken by any public body with respect to those issues which are 
the subject of the mediation without deliberation and approval for such action at an 
open session. 
 
10. To discuss trade secrets or confidential, competitively-sensitive or other proprietary 
information provided: 
 
• in the course of activities conducted by a governmental body as an energy supplier 
under a license granted by the department of public utilities pursuant to section 1F 
of chapter 164;  
• in the course of activities conducted as a municipal aggregator under section 134 of 
said chapter 164; or 
• in the course of activities conducted by a cooperative consisting of governmental 
entities organized pursuant to section 136 of said chapter 164; 
• when such governmental body, municipal aggregator or cooperative determines 
that such disclosure will adversely affect its ability to conduct business in relation to 
other entities making, selling or distributing electric power and energy. 
 
Remote Participation 
May a member of a public body participate remotely?      
Section 20 of Chapter 20 of the Acts of 2021, which provisions expire on June 30, 2027, 
unless further extended, suspended the requirements under the Open Meeting Law and the 
Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations that a quorum of a public body, including the 
===PAGE 17===
17 | Page  
 
chair, be physically present at the meeting location.  Instead, Section 20 of Chapter 20 allows 
some or all members of a public body to participate in a meeting remotely.   
 
If a meeting is held in person at a location that is physically open and accessible to the 
public with a quorum of the public body physically present in person, the public body is not 
required to permit members of the public to access the meeting remotely, even if some 
members of the public body participate remotely.   
What are the acceptable means of remote participation?     
Acceptable means of remote participation include telephone, internet, or satellite 
enabled audio or video conferencing, or any other technology that enables the remote 
participant and all persons present at the meeting location to be clearly audible to one another.  
Text messaging, instant messaging, email and web chat without audio are not acceptable 
methods of remote participation.  Note that accommodations must be made for any public 
body member who requires TTY service, video relay service, or other form of adaptive 
telecommunications.   
What are the minimum requirements for remote participation?     
Any public body using remote participation during a meeting must ensure that the following 
minimum requirements are met: 
 
1. Members of a public body who participate remotely and all persons present at the 
meeting location must be clearly audible to each other; and 
2. All votes taken during a meeting in which a member participates remotely must be by 
roll call vote. 
What procedures must be followed if remote participation is used at a meeting?  
At the start of any meeting during which a member of a public body will participate 
remotely, including a meeting where all members participate remotely, the chair must 
announce the name of any member who is participating remotely; such information must also 
be recorded in the meeting minutes.  The chair’s statement does not need to contain any detail 
about the reason for the member’s remote participation.     
 
Members of public bodies who participate remotely may vote and shall not be deemed 
absent for purposes of G.L. c. 39, § 23D.  In addition, members who participate remotely may 
participate in executive sessions but must state at the start of any such session that no other 
person is present or able to hear the discussion at the remote location, unless the public body 
has approved the presence of that individual. 
 
If technical difficulties arise as a result of utilizing remote participation, the chair (or, in 
the chair’s absence, person chairing the meeting) may decide how to address the situation.  
Public bodies are encouraged, whenever possible, to suspend discussion while reasonable 
efforts are made to correct any problem that interferes with a remote participant’s ability to 
hear or be heard clearly by all persons present at the meeting location.  If a remote participant 
===PAGE 18===
18 | Page  
 
is disconnected from the meeting, the minutes must note that fact and the time at which the 
disconnection occurred. 
 
Public Participation 
What public participation in meetings must be allowed?      
Under the Open Meeting Law, the public is permitted to attend meetings of public 
bodies but is excluded from an executive session that is called for a valid purpose listed in the 
law.  While the public is permitted to attend an open meeting, an individual may not address 
the public body without permission of the chair.  An individual may not disrupt a meeting of a 
public body, and at the request of the chair, all members of the public shall be silent.  If, after 
clear warning, a person continues to be disruptive, the chair may order the person to leave the 
meeting.  If the person does not leave, the chair may authorize a constable or other officer to 
remove the person.  Although public participation is entirely within the chair’s discretion 
(subject to constitutional protections outside the purview of the Open Meeting Law), the 
Attorney General encourages public bodies to allow as much public participation as time 
permits.  
 
Any member of the public may make an audio or video recording of an open session of a 
public meeting.  A member of the public who wishes to record a meeting must first notify the 
chair and must comply with reasonable requirements regarding audio or video equipment 
established by the chair so as not to interfere with the meeting.  The chair is required to inform 
other attendees of any such recording at the beginning of the meeting.  If someone arrives after 
the meeting has begun and wishes to record a meeting, that person should attempt to notify 
the chair prior to beginning recording, ideally in a manner that does not significantly disrupt the 
meeting in progress (such as passing a note for the chair to the board administrator or 
secretary). The chair should endeavor to acknowledge such attempts at notification and 
announce the fact of any recording to those in attendance. 
Minutes 
What records of public meetings must be kept?       
Public bodies are required to create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, 
including executive sessions.  The minutes must include:  
 
• the date, time and place of the meeting;  
• the members present or absent;  
• the decisions made and actions taken, including a record of all votes; 
• a summary of the discussions on each subject; 
• a list of all documents and exhibits used at the meeting; and 
• the name of any member who participated in the meeting remotely.   
===PAGE 19===
19 | Page  
 
 
Notably, the minutes must include a summary of the discussions on each subject, not 
merely a statement that a discussion was held.  Although a transcript of the discussions is not 
required, and the minutes need not include every remark or opinion presented, minutes must 
include a substantive summary of the discussion on each topic.  Minutes should contain enough 
detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read 
the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  No vote taken by a public body, 
either in an open or in an executive session, shall be by secret ballot.  All votes taken in 
executive session must be by roll call and the results recorded in the minutes.  While public 
bodies must identify in the minutes all documents and exhibits used at a meeting and must 
retain them in accordance with the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s records retention 
schedule, these documents and exhibits needn’t be attached to or physically stored with the 
minutes.   
 
Minutes, and all documents and exhibits used, are public records and a part of the 
official record of the meeting.  Records may be subject to disclosure under either the Open 
Meeting Law or Public Records Law.  The State and Municipal Record Retention Schedules are 
available through the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s website at: 
http://www.sec.state.ma.us/arc/arcrmu/rmuidx.htm
. 
 
Open Session Meeting Records         
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to create and approve minutes in a timely 
manner.  A “timely manner” is considered to be within the next three public body meetings or 
30 days from the date of the meeting, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good 
cause for further delay.   The Attorney General encourages minutes to be approved at a public 
body’s next meeting whenever possible.  The law requires that existing minutes be made 
available to the public within ten calendar days of a request, whether they have been approved 
or remain in draft form.  Materials or other exhibits used by the public body in an open meeting 
are public records and must be provided in their entirety in response to a public records 
request.   
 
There are two exemptions to the open session records disclosure requirement:  1) 
materials (other than those that were created by members of the public body for the purpose 
of the evaluation) used in a performance evaluation of an individual bearing on his professional 
competence, and 2) materials (other than any résumé submitted by an applicant, which is 
subject to disclosure) used in deliberations about employment or appointment of individuals, 
including applications and supporting materials.  Documents created by members of the public 
body for the purpose of performing an evaluation are subject to disclosure.  This applies to both 
individual evaluations and evaluation compilations, provided the documents were created by 
members of the public body for the purpose of the evaluation.  
 
  
===PAGE 20===
20 | Page  
 
Executive Session Meeting Records        
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to create and maintain minutes of 
executive sessions, and to review executive session minutes at reasonable intervals to 
determine whether continued nondisclosure of the executive session minutes is warranted. 
Public bodies are not required to disclose the minutes, notes, or other materials used in an 
executive session if the disclosure of these records may defeat the lawful purposes of the 
executive session.  Once disclosure would no longer defeat the purposes of the executive 
session, however, minutes and other records from that executive session must be disclosed 
unless they fall within an exemption to the Public Records Law, G.L. c. 4, § 7, cl. 26, or the 
attorney-client privilege applies.  Although the Open Meeting Law does not define the 
“reasonable interval” at which executive session minutes must be reviewed, the Attorney 
General’s Office has found a review every three to six months to be appropriate.  The result of 
the review (whether each set of reviewed minutes will be disclosed or will continue to be 
withheld) must be announced at the public body’s next meeting following the review and 
recorded in the minutes of that meeting.   
 
A public body must respond to a request to inspect or copy executive session minutes 
within ten days of the request.  If the public body has determined, prior to the request, that the 
requested executive session minutes may be released, it must make those minutes available to 
the requestor at that time.  If the body has recently determined that executive session minutes 
should remain confidential because publication would defeat the lawful purposes of the 
executive session, it should respond by stating that the minutes continue to be withheld.  And 
if, at the time of a request, the public body has not recently conducted a review of the minutes 
to determine whether continued nondisclosure is warranted, the body must perform such a 
review and release the minutes, if appropriate, no later than its next meeting or within 30 days, 
whichever occurs first.  In such circumstances, the body should still respond to the request 
within ten days, notifying the requestor that it is conducting this review. 
 
Open Meeting Law Complaints 
What is the Attorney General’s role in enforcing the Open Meeting Law?   
The Attorney General’s Division of Open Government is responsible for enforcing the 
Open Meeting Law.  The Attorney General has the authority to receive and investigate 
complaints, bring enforcement actions, issue advisory opinions, and promulgate regulations.   
 
The Division of Open Government regularly seeks feedback from the public on ways in 
which it can better support public bodies to help them comply with the law’s requirements.  
The Division of Open Government offers periodic online and in-person training on the Open 
Meeting Law and will respond to requests for guidance and information from public bodies and 
the public.   
 
===PAGE 21===
21 | Page  
 
The Division of Open Government will take complaints from members of the public and 
will work with public bodies to resolve problems.  While any member of the public may file a 
complaint with a public body alleging a violation of the Open Meeting Law, a public body need 
not, and the Division of Open Government will not, investigate anonymous complaints.   
 
What is the Open Meeting Law complaint procedure?      
Step 1.  Filing a Complaint with the Public Body 
Individuals who allege a violation of the Open Meeting Law must first file a complaint 
with the public body alleged to have violated the OML.  The complaint must be filed within 30 
days of the date of the violation, or the date the complainant could reasonably have known of 
the violation.  The complaint must be filed on a 
Complaint Form available on the Attorney 
General’s website, www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. When filing a complaint with a local 
public body, the complainant must also file a copy of the complaint with the municipal clerk.   
 
Step 2.  The Public Body’s Response 
Upon receipt, the chair of the public body should distribute copies of the complaint to 
the members of the public body for their review.  The public body has 14 business days from 
the date of receipt to meet to review the complainant’s allegations, take remedial action if 
appropriate, notify the complainant of the remedial action, and forward a copy of the 
complaint and description of the remedial action taken to the complainant.  The public body 
must simultaneously notify the Attorney General that it has responded to the complainant and 
provide the Attorney General with a copy of the response and a description of any remedial 
action taken.  While the public body may delegate responsibility for responding to the 
complaint to counsel or another individual, it must first meet to do so.  A public body is not 
required to respond to unsigned complaints or complaints not made on the Attorney General’s 
complaint form. 
 
The public body may request additional information from the complainant within seven 
business days of receiving the complaint.  The complainant then has ten business days to 
respond; the public body will then have an additional ten business days after receiving the 
complainant’s response to review the complaint and take remedial action.  The public body 
may also request an extension of time to respond to the complaint.  A request for an extension 
should be made within 14 business days of receipt of the complaint by the public body.  The 
request for an extension should be made in writing to the Division of Open Government and 
should include a copy of the complaint and state the reason for the requested extension. 
 
Step 3.  Filing a Complaint with the Attorney General’s Office    
A complaint is ripe for review by the Attorney General 30 days after the complaint is 
filed with the public body.  This 30-day period is intended to provide a reasonable opportunity 
for the complainant and the public body to resolve the initial complaint.  It is important to note 
===PAGE 22===
22 | Page  
 
that complaints are not automatically treated as filed for review by the Attorney General upon 
filing with the public body.  A complainant who has filed a complaint with a public body and 
seeks further review by the Division of Open Government must file the complaint with the 
Attorney General after the 30-day local review period has elapsed but before 90 days have 
passed since the date of the violation or the date that the violation was reasonably 
discoverable.   
 
When filing the complaint with the Attorney General, the complainant must include a 
copy of the original complaint and may include any other materials the complainant feels are 
relevant, including an explanation of why the complainant is not satisfied with the response of 
the public body.  Note, however, that the Attorney General will not review allegations that 
were not raised in the initial complaint filed with the public body.  Under most circumstances, 
complaints filed with the Attorney General, and any documents submitted with the complaint, 
will be considered a public record and will be made available to anyone upon request.  
 
The Attorney General will review the complaint and any remedial action taken by the 
public body.  The Attorney General may request additional information from both the 
complainant and the public body.  The Attorney General will seek to resolve complaints in a 
reasonable period of time, generally within 90 days of the complaint becoming ripe for review 
by our office.  The Attorney General may decline to investigate a complaint that is filed with our 
office more than 90 days after the date of the alleged violation. 
 
When is a violation of the law considered “intentional”?      
Upon finding a violation of the Open Meeting Law, the Attorney General may impose a 
civil penalty upon a public body of not more than $1,000 for each intentional violation.  G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(c)(4).  An “intentional violation” is an act or omission by a public body or public body 
member in knowing violation of the Open Meeting Law.  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  In determining 
whether a violation was intentional, the Attorney General will consider, among other things, 
whether the public body or public body member 1) acted with specific intent to violate the law; 
2) acted with deliberate ignorance of the law’s requirements; or 3) had been previously 
informed by a court decision or advised by the Attorney General that the conduct at issue 
violated the Open Meeting Law.  940 CMR 29.02.  If a public body or public body member made 
a good faith attempt at compliance with the law but was reasonably mistaken about its 
requirements, its conduct will not be considered an intentional violation of the Law.  G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(g); 940 CMR 29.02.  A fine will not be imposed where a public body or public body 
member acted in good faith compliance with the advice of the public body's legal counsel.  G.L. 
30A, § 23(g); 940 CMR 29.07. 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 23===
23 | Page  
 
Training on the Open Meeting Law  
 
The Open Meeting Law directs the Attorney General to create educational materials and 
provide training to public bodies to foster awareness of and compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law.  The Attorney General has established an Open Meeting Law website, 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law, on which government officials and members of 
public bodies can find the statute, regulations, FAQs, training materials, checklists, the Attorney 
General’s determination letters resolving complaints, and other resources.  The Attorney 
General offers frequent webinar trainings for members of the public and public bodies; dates of 
upcoming webinars are posted to the Open Meeting Law website. 
Contacting the Attorney General       
 
If you have any questions about the Open Meeting Law or anything contained in this 
guide, please contact the Attorney General’s Division of Open Government.  The Attorney 
General also welcomes any comments, feedback, or suggestions you may have about the Open 
Meeting Law or this guide.  
 
Division of Open Government 
Office of the Attorney General 
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, MA  02108 
Tel: 617-963-2540 
www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law 
OpenMeeting@mass.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 24===
24 | Page  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 25===
25 | Page  
 
The Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-254 
 
Chapter 28 of the Acts of 2009, sections 17–20, repealed the existing state Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 11A, 11A-1/2, county Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 34, §9F, 9G, and municipal Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 39, §§ 23A, 23B, and 23C, and replaced them with a single Open Meeting Law covering all 
public bodies, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, enforced by the Attorney General. 
Section 18: [DEFINITIONS] 
 
As used in this section and sections 19 to 25, inclusive, the following words shall, unless the 
context clearly requires otherwise, have the following meanings: 
“Deliberation”, an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, 
between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, 
however, that “deliberation” shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling 
information or distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents 
that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed. 
“Emergency”, a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding 
immediate action. 
“Executive session”, any part of a meeting of a public body closed to the public for deliberation of 
certain matters. 
“Intentional violation”, an act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing 
violation of the open meeting law. 
“Meeting”, a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s 
jurisdiction; provided, however, “meeting” shall not include: 
(a) an on-site inspection of a project or program, so long as the members do not deliberate; 
(b) attendance by a quorum of a public body at a public or private gathering, including a 
conference or training program or a media, social or other event, so long as the members do 
not deliberate; 
(c) attendance by a quorum of a public body at a meeting of another public body that has 
complied with the notice requirements of the open meeting law, so long as the visiting 
members communicate only by open participation in the meeting on those matters under 
discussion by the host body and do not deliberate;  
(d) a meeting of a quasi-judicial board or commission held for the sole purpose of making a 
decision required in an adjudicatory proceeding brought before it; or 
(e) a session of a town meeting convened under section 9 of chapter 39 which would include 
the attendance by a quorum of a public body at any such session; 
 
 
4 NOTICE: This is NOT the official version of the Massachusetts General Law (MGL). While reasonable efforts have 
been made to ensure the accuracy and currency of the data provided, do not rely on this information without first 
checking an official edition of the MGL. 
===PAGE 26===
26 | Page  
 
“Minutes”, the written report of a meeting created by a public body required by subsection (a) of 
section 22 and section 5A of chapter 66. 
“Open meeting law”, sections 18 to 25, inclusive. 
“Post notice”, to display conspicuously the written announcement of a meeting either in hard 
copy or electronic format. 
“Preliminary screening”, the initial stage of screening applicants conducted by a committee or 
subcommittee of a public body solely for the purpose of providing to the public body a list of those 
applicants qualified for further consideration or interview. 
“Public body”, a multiple-member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the 
executive or legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, 
elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose; provided, 
however, that the governing board of a local housing, redevelopment or other similar authority shall 
be deemed a local public body; provided, further, that the governing board or body of any other 
authority established by the general court to serve a public purpose in the commonwealth or any 
part thereof shall be deemed a state public body; provided, further, that “public body” shall not 
include the general court or the committees or recess commissions thereof, bodies of the judicial 
branch or bodies appointed by a constitutional officer solely for the purpose of advising a 
constitutional officer and shall not include the board of bank incorporation or the policyholders 
protective board; and provided further, that a subcommittee shall include any multiple-member 
body created to advise or make recommendations to a public body. 
“Quorum”, a simple majority of the members of the public body, unless otherwise provided in a 
general or special law, executive order or other authorizing provision. 
Section 19. Division of Open Government; Open Meeting Law Training; Open Meeting Law 
Advisory Commission; Annual Report 
(a) There shall be in the department of the attorney general a division of open government under 
the direction of a director of open government. The attorney general shall designate an 
assistant attorney general as the director of the open government division. The director may 
appoint and remove, subject to the approval of the attorney general, such expert, clerical and 
other assistants as the work of the division may require. The division shall perform the duties 
imposed upon the attorney general by the open meeting law, which may include participating, 
appearing and intervening in any administrative and judicial proceedings pertaining to the 
enforcement of the open meeting law. For the purpose of such participation, appearance, 
intervention and training authorized by this chapter the attorney general may expend such 
funds as may be appropriated therefor. 
(b) The attorney general shall create and distribute educational materials and provide training 
to public bodies in order to foster awareness and compliance with the open meeting law. 
Open meeting law training may include, but shall not be limited to, instruction in: 
1. the general background of the legal requirements for the open meeting law; 
2. applicability of sections 18 to 25, inclusive, to governmental bodies; 
3. the role of the attorney general in enforcing the open meeting law; and 
4. penalties and other consequences for failure to comply with this chapter. 
===PAGE 27===
27 | Page  
 
(c) There shall be an open meeting law advisory commission. The commission shall consist of 5 
members, 2 of whom shall be the chairmen of the joint committee on state administration 
and regulatory oversight; 1 of whom shall be the president of the Massachusetts Municipal 
Association or his designee; 1 of whom shall be the president of the Massachusetts 
Newspaper Publishers Association or his designee; and 1 of whom shall be the attorney 
general or his designee. 
The commission shall review issues relative to the open meeting law and shall submit to the 
attorney general recommendations for changes to the regulations, trainings, and educational 
initiatives relative to the open meeting law as it deems necessary and appropriate. 
(d) The attorney general shall, not later than January 31, file annually with the commission a report 
providing information on the enforcement of the open meeting law during the preceding 
calendar year. The report shall include, but not be limited to: 
1. the number of open meeting law complaints received by the attorney general; 
2. the number of hearings convened as the result of open meeting law complaints by 
the attorney general; 
3. a summary of the determinations of violations made by the attorney general; 
4. a summary of the orders issued as the result of the determination of an open 
meeting law violation by the attorney general; 
5. an accounting of the fines obtained by the attorney general as the result of open 
meeting law enforcement actions; 
6. the number of actions filed in superior court seeking relief from an order of the 
attorney general; and 
7. any additional information relevant to the administration and enforcement of the 
open meeting law that the attorney general deems appropriate. 
Section 20. Meetings of a Public Body to be Open to the Public; Notice of Meeting; Remote 
Participation; Recording and Transmission of Meeting; Removal of Persons for Disruption of 
Proceedings 
(a) Except as provided in section 21, all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public. 
(b) Except in an emergency, in addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public body 
shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. In an emergency, a public body shall post notice as 
soon as reasonably possible prior to such meeting. Notice shall be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and shall contain the date, time and place of such meeting and a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting. 
(c) For meetings of a local public body, notice shall be filed with the municipal clerk and posted in 
a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on the municipal building in 
which the clerk’s office is located. 
For meetings of a regional or district public body, notice shall be filed and posted in 
each city or town within the region or district in the manner prescribed for local public bodies. 
For meetings of a regional school district, the secretary of the regional school district 
committee shall be considered to be its clerk and shall file notice with the clerk of each city or 
===PAGE 28===
28 | Page  
 
town within such district and shall post the notice in the manner prescribed for local public 
bodies. For meetings of a county public body, notice shall be filed in the office of the county 
commissioners and a copy of the notice shall be publicly posted in a manner conspicuously 
visible to the public at all hours in such place or places as the county commissioners shall 
designate for the purpose. 
For meetings of a state public body, notice shall be filed with the attorney general by 
posting on a website in accordance with procedures established for this purpose and a 
duplicate copy of the notice shall be filed with the regulations division of the s tate secretary‘s 
office. 
  The attorney general may prescribe or approve alternative methods of notice where 
the attorney general determines the alternative methods will afford more effective notice to 
the public. 
(d) The attorney general may, by regulation or letter ruling, authorize remote participation by 
members of a public body not present at the meeting location; provided, however, that the 
absent members and all persons present at the meeting location are clearly audible to each 
other; and provided, further, that a quorum of the body, including the chair, are present at 
the meeting location. Such authorized members may vote and shall not be deemed absent for 
the purposes of section 23D of chapter 39. 
(e) A local commission on disability may by majority vote of the commissioners at a regular 
meeting authorize remote participation applicable to a specific meeting or generally to all of 
the commission’s meetings. If a local commission on disability is authorized to utilize remote 
participation, a physical quorum of that commission’s members shall not be required to be 
present at the meeting location; provided, however, that the chair or, in the chair’s absence, 
the person authorized to chair the meeting, shall be physically present at the meeting location. 
The commission shall comply with all other requirements of law. 
(f) After notifying the chair of the public body, any person may make a video or audio recording of 
an open session of a meeting of a public body, or may transmit the meeting through any 
medium, subject to reasonable requirements of the chair as to the number, placement and 
operation of equipment used so as not to interfere with the conduct of the meeting. At the 
beginning of the meeting, the chair shall inform other attendees of any recordings. 
(g) No person shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all 
persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent. No person shall disrupt the proceedings of a 
meeting of a public body. If, after clear warning from the chair, a person continues to disrupt 
the proceedings, the chair may order the person to withdraw from the meeting and if the 
person does not withdraw, the chair may authorize a constable or other officer to remove the 
person from the meeting. 
(h) Within 2 weeks of qualification for office, all persons serving on a public body shall certify, on 
a form prescribed by the attorney general, the receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, 
regulations promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a copy of the educational materials 
prepared by the attorney general explaining the open meeting law and its application 
pursuant to section 19. Unless otherwise directed or approved by the attorney general, the 
===PAGE 29===
29 | Page  
 
appointing authority, city or town clerk or the executive director or other appropriate 
administrator of a state or regional body, or their designees, shall obtain such certification 
from each person upon entering service and shall retain it subject to the applicable records 
retention schedule where the body maintains its official records. The certification shall be 
evidence that the member of a public body has read and understands the requirements of the 
open meeting law and the consequences of violating it. 
 
Section 21.  Executive Sessions 
(a) A public body may meet in executive session only for the following purposes: 
1. To discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than 
professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, 
or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or 
individual. The individual to be discussed in such executive session shall be notified in 
writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session; 
provided, however, that notification may be waived upon written agreement of the 
parties. A public body shall hold an open session if the individual involved requests that 
the session be open. If an executive session is held, such individual shall have the 
following rights: 
i. to be present at such executive session during deliberations which involve that 
individual; 
ii. to have counsel or a representative of his own choosing present and attending 
for the purpose of advising the individual and not for the purpose of active 
participation in the executive session; 
iii. to speak on his own behalf; and 
iv. to cause an independent record to be created of said executive session by 
audio-recording or transcription, at the individual’s expense. 
The rights of an individual set forth in this paragraph are in addition to the rights 
that he may have from any other source, including, but not limited to, rights under any 
laws or collective bargaining agreements and the exercise or non-exercise of the 
individual rights under this section shall not be construed as a waiver of any rights of 
the individual. 
2. To conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion 
personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations 
with nonunion personnel; 
3. To discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting 
may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public 
body and the chair so declares; 
4. To discuss the deployment of security personnel or devices, or strategies with respect 
thereto; 
5. To investigate charges of criminal misconduct or to consider the filing of criminal 
complaints; 
===PAGE 30===
30 | Page  
 
6. To consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair 
declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating 
position of the public body; 
7. To comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or special law or federal 
grant-in-aid requirements; 
8. To consider or interview applicants for employment or appointment by a preliminary 
screening committee if the chair declares that an open meeting will have a detrimental 
effect in obtaining qualified applicants; provided, however, that this clause shall not 
apply to any meeting, including meetings of a preliminary screening committee, to 
consider and interview applicants who have passed a prior preliminary screening; 
9. To meet or confer with a mediator, as defined in section 23C of chapter 233, with 
respect to any litigation or decision on any public business within its jurisdiction 
involving another party, group or entity, provided that: 
i. any decision to participate in mediation shall be made in an open session and 
the parties, issues involved and purpose of the mediation shall be disclosed; 
and 
ii. no action shall be taken by any public body with respect to those issues which 
are the subject of the mediation without deliberation and approval for such 
action at an open session; or 
10. To discuss trade secrets or confidential, competitively-sensitive or other proprietary 
information provided in the course of activities conducted by a governmental body as 
an energy supplier under a license granted by the department of public utilities 
pursuant to section 1F of chapter 164, in the course of activities conducted as a 
municipal aggregator under section 134 of said chapter 164 or in the course of 
activities conducted by a cooperative consisting of governmental entities organized 
pursuant to section 136 of said chapter 164, when such governmental body, municipal 
aggregator or cooperative determines that such disclosure will adversely affect its 
ability to conduct business in relation to other entities making, selling or distributing 
electric power and energy. 
(b) A public body may meet in closed session for 1 or more of the purposes enumerated 
in subsection (a) provided that: 
1. the body has first convened in an open session pursuant to section 21; 
2. a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session and the 
vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes; 
3. before the executive session, the chair shall state the purpose for the executive session, 
stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called; 
4. the chair shall publicly announce whether the open session will reconvene at the 
conclusion of the executive session; and 
5. accurate records of the executive session shall be maintained pursuant to section 23. 
 
 
===PAGE 31===
31 | Page  
 
Section 22.  Meeting Minutes; Records 
(a) A public body shall create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, 
a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at 
the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the 
record of all votes. 
(b) No vote taken at an open session shall be by secret ballot. Any vote taken at an executive 
session shall be recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes. 
(c) Minutes of all open sessions shall be created and approved in a timely manner. The minutes of 
an open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft form, shall be made available 
upon request by any person within 10 days. 
(d) Documents and other exhibits, such as photographs, recordings or maps, used by the body at 
an open or executive session shall, along with the minutes, be part of the official record of the 
session. 
(e) The minutes of any open session, the notes, recordings or other materials used in the 
preparation of such minutes and all documents and exhibits used at the session, shall be 
public records in their entirety and not exempt from disclosure pursuant to any of the 
exemptions under clause Twenty-sixth of section 7 of chapter 4. Notwithstanding this 
paragraph, the following materials shall be exempt from disclosure to the public as personnel 
information: (1) materials used in a performance evaluation of an individual bearing on his 
professional competence, provided they were not created by the members of the body for 
the purposes of the evaluation; and (2) materials used in deliberations about employment or 
appointment of individuals, including applications and supporting materials; provided, 
however, that any resume submitted by an applicant shall not be exempt. 
(f) The minutes of any executive session, the notes, recordings or other materials used in the 
preparation of such minutes and all documents and exhibits used at the session, may be 
withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety under subclause (a) of clause Twenty-
sixth of section 7 of chapter 4, as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the 
executive session, but no longer; provided, however, that the executive session was held in 
compliance with section 21. 
When the purpose for which a valid executive session was held has been served, the 
minutes, preparatory materials and documents and exhibits of the session shall be disclosed 
unless the attorney- client privilege or 1 or more of the exemptions under said clause Twenty-
sixth of said section 7 of said chapter 4 apply to withhold these records, or any portion thereof, 
from disclosure. 
For purposes of this subsection, if an executive session is held pursuant to clause (2) or (3) 
of subsections (a) of section 21, then the minutes, preparatory materials and documents and 
exhibits used at the session may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety, 
unless and until such time as a litigating, negotiating or bargaining position is no longer 
jeopardized by such disclosure, at which time they shall be disclosed unless the attorney-client 
privilege or 1 or more of the exemptions under said clause Twenty-sixth of said section 7 of 
===PAGE 32===
32 | Page  
 
said chapter 4 apply to withhold these records, or any portion thereof, from disclosure. 
(g) (1) The public body, or its chair or designee, shall, at reasonable intervals, review the minutes 
of executive sessions to determine if the provisions of this subsection warrant continued non-
disclosure. Such determination shall be announced at the body’s next meeting and such 
announcement shall be included in the minutes of that meeting. 
2. Upon request by any person to inspect or copy the minutes of an executive session or any 
portion thereof, the body shall respond to the request within 10 days following receipt and 
shall release any such minutes not covered by an exemption under subsection (f); 
provided, however, that if the body has not performed a review pursuant to paragraph (1), 
the public body shall perform the review and release the non-exempt minutes, or any 
portion thereof, not later than the body’s next meeting or 30 days, whichever first occurs. 
A public body shall not assess a fee for the time spent in its review. 
Section 23. Enforcement of Open Meeting Law; Complaints; Hearings; Civil Actions 
(a) Subject to appropriation, the attorney general shall interpret and enforce the open meeting law. 
(b) At least 30 days prior to the filing of a complaint with the attorney general, the complainant 
shall file a written complaint with the public body, setting forth the circumstances which 
constitute the alleged violation and giving the body an opportunity to remedy the alleged 
violation; provided, however, that such complaint shall be filed within 30 days of the date of 
the alleged violation. The public body shall, within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, 
send a copy of the complaint to the attorney general and notify the attorney general of any 
remedial action taken. Any remedial action taken by the public body in response to a 
complaint under this subsection shall not be admissible as evidence against the public body 
that a violation occurred in any later administrative or judicial proceeding relating to such 
alleged violation. The attorney general may authorize an extension of time to the public body 
for the purpose of taking remedial action upon the written request of the public body and a 
showing of good cause to grant the extension. 
(c) Upon the receipt of a complaint by any person, the attorney general shall determine, in a 
timely manner, whether there has been a violation of the open meeting law. The attorney 
general may, and before imposing any civil penalty on a public body shall, hold a hearing on 
any such complaint. Following a determination that a violation has occurred, the attorney 
general shall determine whether the public body, 1 or more of the members, or both, are 
responsible and whether the violation was intentional or unintentional. Upon the finding of a 
violation, the attorney general may issue an order to: 
1. compel immediate and future compliance with the open meeting law; 
2. compel attendance at a training session authorized by the attorney general; 
3. nullify in whole or in part any action taken at the meeting; 
4. impose a civil penalty upon the public body of not more than $1,000 for each 
intentional violation; 
5. reinstate an employee without loss of compensation, seniority, tenure or other benefits; 
6. compel that minutes, records or other materials be made public; or 
7. prescribe other appropriate action. 
===PAGE 33===
33 | Page  
 
(d) A public body or any member of a body aggrieved by any order issued pursuant to this section 
may, notwithstanding any general or special law to the contrary, obtain judicial review of the 
order only through an action in superior court seeking relief in the nature of certiorari; 
provided, however, that notwithstanding section 4 of chapter 249, any such action shall be 
commenced in superior court within 21 days of receipt of the order. Any order issued under 
this section shall be stayed pending judicial review; provided, however, that if the order 
nullifies an action of the public body, the body shall not implement such action pending 
judicial review. 
(e) If any public body or member thereof shall fail to comply with the requirements set forth in any 
order issued by the attorney general, or shall fail to pay any civil penalty imposed within 21 
days of the date of issuance of such order or within 30 days following the decision of the 
superior court if judicial review of such order has been timely sought, the attorney general may 
file an action to compel compliance. Such action shall be filed in Suffolk superior court with 
respect to state public bodies and, with respect to all other public bodies, in the superior court 
in any county in which the public body acts or meets. If such body or member has not timely 
sought judicial review of the order, such order shall not be open to review in an action to 
compel compliance. 
(f) As an alternative to the procedure in subsection (b), the attorney general or 3 or more 
registered voters may initiate a civil action to enforce the open meeting law. 
Any action under this subsection shall be filed in Suffolk superior court with respect to 
state public bodies and, with respect to all other public bodies, in the superior court in any 
county in which the public body acts or meets. 
In any action filed pursuant to this subsection, in addition to all other remedies 
available to the superior court, in law or in equity, the court shall have all of the remedies set 
forth in subsection (c). 
In any action filed under this subsection, the order of notice on the complaint shall be 
returnable  not later than 10 days after the filing and the complaint shall be heard and 
determined on the return day or on such day as the court shall fix, having regard to the 
speediest possible determination of the cause consistent with the rights of the parties; 
provided, however, that orders may be issued at any time on or after the filing of the complaint 
without notice when such order is necessary to fulfill the purposes of the open meeting law. In 
the hearing of any action under this subsection, the burden shall be on the respondent to show 
by a preponderance of the evidence that the action complained of in such complaint was in 
accordance with and authorized by the open meeting law; provided, however, that no civil 
penalty may be imposed on an individual absent proof that the action complained of violated 
the open meeting law. 
(g) It shall be a defense to the imposition of a penalty that the public body, after full 
disclosure, acted in good faith compliance with the advice of the public body’s legal 
counsel. 
(h) Payment of civil penalties under this section paid to or received by the attorney general shall 
be paid into the general fund of the commonwealth. 
===PAGE 34===
34 | Page  
 
Section 24. Investigation by Attorney General of Violations of Open Meeting Law 
(a) Whenever the attorney general has reasonable cause to believe that a person, including any 
public body and any other state, regional, county, municipal or other governmental official or 
entity, has violated the open meeting law, the attorney general may conduct an investigation 
to ascertain whether in fact such person has violated the open meeting law. Upon notification 
of an investigation, any person, public body or any other state, regional, county, municipal or 
other governmental official or entity who is the subject of an investigation, shall make all 
information necessary to conduct such investigation available to the attorney general. In the 
event that the person, public body or any other state, regional, county, municipal or other 
governmental official or entity being investigated does not voluntarily provide relevant 
information to the attorney general within 30 days of receiving notice of the investigation, the 
attorney general may: (1) take testimony under oath concerning such alleged violation of the 
open meeting law; (2) examine or cause to be examined any documentary material of 
whatever nature relevant to such alleged violation of the open meeting law; and (3) require 
attendance during such examination of documentary material of any person having knowledge 
of the documentary material and take testimony under oath or acknowledgment in respect of 
any such documentary material. Such testimony and examination shall take place in the county 
where such person resides or has a place of business or, if the parties consent or such person is 
a nonresident or has no place of business within the commonwealth, in Suffolk  county. 
(b) Notice of the time, place and cause of such taking of testimony, examination or attendance 
shall be given by the attorney general at least 10 days prior to the date of such taking of 
testimony or examination. 
(c) Service of any such notice may be made by: (1) delivering a duly-executed copy to the person 
to be served or to a partner or to any officer or agent authorized by appointment or by law to 
receive service of process on behalf of such person; (2) delivering a duly-executed copy to the 
principal place of business in the commonwealth of the person to be served; or (3) mailing by 
registered or certified mail a duly-executed copy addressed to the person to be served at the 
principal place of business in the commonwealth or, if said person has no place of business in 
the commonwealth, to his principal office or place of business. 
(d) Each such notice shall: (1) state the time and place for the taking of testimony or the 
examination and the name and address of each person to be examined, if known and, if the 
name is not known, a general description sufficient to identify him or the particular class or 
group to which he belongs; (2) state the statute and section thereof, the alleged violation of 
which is under investigation and the general subject matter of the investigation; (3) describe 
the class or classes of documentary material to be produced thereunder with reasonable 
specificity, so as fairly to indicate the material demanded; (4) prescribe a return date within 
which the documentary material is to be produced; and (5) identify the members of the 
attorney general’s staff to whom such documentary material is to be made available for 
inspection and copying. 
 
 
===PAGE 35===
35 | Page  
 
(e) No such notice shall contain any requirement which would be unreasonable or improper if 
contained in a subpoena duces tecum issued by a court of the commonwealth or require the 
disclosure of any documentary material which would be privileged, or which for any other 
reason would not be required by a subpoena duces tecum issued by a court of the 
commonwealth. 
(f) Any documentary material or other information produced by any person pursuant to this 
section shall not, unless otherwise ordered by a court of the commonwealth for good cause 
shown, be disclosed to any person other than the authorized agent or representative of the 
attorney general, unless with the consent of the person producing the same; provided, 
however, that such material or information may be disclosed by the attorney general in court 
pleadings or other papers filed in court. 
(g) At any time prior to the date specified in the notice, or within 21 days after the notice has 
been served, whichever period is shorter, the court may, upon motion for good cause shown, 
extend such reporting date or modify or set aside such demand or grant a protective order in 
accordance with the standards set forth in Rule 26(c) of the Massachusetts Rules of Civil 
Procedure. The motion may be filed in the superior court of the county in which the person 
served resides or has his usual place of business or in Suffolk county. This section shall not be 
applicable to any criminal proceeding nor shall information obtained under the authority of 
this section be admissible in evidence in any criminal prosecution for substantially identical 
transactions. 
Section 25. Regulations; Letter Rulings; Advisory Opinions 
(a) The attorney general shall have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations to carry out 
enforcement of the open meeting law. 
(b) The attorney general shall have the authority to interpret the open meeting law and to issue 
written letter rulings or advisory opinions according to rules established under this section. 
 
 
  
===PAGE 36===
36 | Page  
 
940 CMR 29.00:  Open Meeting Law Regulations 
 
The official regulations are published in the Massachusetts Register. For more information, contact the 
Secretary of the Commonwealth’s State Publications and Regulations Division. 
 
Section 
29.01:   Purpose, Scope and Other General Provisions 
29.02:   Definitions 
29.03:   Notice Posting Requirements 
29.04:   Certification 
29.05:   Complaints 
29.06:   Investigation 
29.07:   Resolution 
29.08:   Advisory Opinions 
29.09:   Other Enforcement Actions 
29.10:   Remote Participation 
29.11:   Meeting Minutes 
 
29.01:   Purpose, Scope and Other General Provisions 
 
(1)   Purpose.  The purpose of 940 CMR 29.00 is to interpret, enforce and effectuate the purposes of the 
Open Meeting Law, M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25. 
 
(2)   Severability.  If any provision of 940 CMR 29.00 or the application of such provision to any person, 
public body, or circumstances shall be held invalid, the validity of the remainder of 940  CMR 29.00 and 
the applicability of such provision to other persons, public bodies, or circumstances shall not be affected 
thereby. 
 
(3)   Mailing.  All complaints, notices (except meeting notices) and other materials that must be sent to 
another party shall be sent by one of the following means: first class mail, email, hand delivery, or by any 
other means at least as expeditious as first class mail. 
 
29.02:   Definitions 
 
As used in 940 CMR 29.00, the following terms shall, unless the context clearly requires otherwise, have 
the following meanings: 
 
County Public Body.  A public body created by county government with jurisdiction that comprises a single 
county. 
 
District Public Body.  A public body with jurisdiction that extends to two or more municipalities.  
 
Emergency.  A sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding immediate 
action.  
===PAGE 37===
37 | Page  
 
Intentional Violation.  An act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of 
M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25.  Evidence of an intentional violation of M.G.L.  c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25 
shall include, but not be limited to, the public body or public body member that: 
(a)   acted with specific intent to violate the law; 
(b)   acted with deliberate ignorance of the law’s requirements; or 
(c)   was previously informed by receipt of a decision from a court of competent jurisdiction or advised 
by the Attorney General, pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07 or 940 CMR 29.08, that the conduct violates M.G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25.  Where a public body or public body member has made a good faith attempt at 
compliance with the law, but was reasonably mistaken about its requirements, such conduct will not be 
considered an intentional violation of M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25. 
 
Person.  All individuals and entities, including governmental officials and employees.  Person does not 
include public bodies.  
 
Post Notice .  To place a written announcement of a meeting on a bulletin board, electronic display, 
website, or in a loose-leaf binder in a manner conspicuously visible to the public, including persons with 
disabilities, at all hours, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.03. 
 
Public Body.  Has the identical meaning as set forth in M.G.L. c. 30A, § 18, that is, a multiple -member 
board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any 
county, district, city, region or town, however created, elec ted, appointed or otherwise constituted, 
established to serve a public purpose; provided, however, that the governing board of a local housing, 
redevelopment or other similar authority shall be deemed a local public body; provided, further, that the 
governing board or body of any other authority established by the general court to serve a public purpose 
in the commonwealth or any part thereof shall be deemed a state public body; provided, further, that 
Public Body shall not include the general court or the committees or recess commissions thereof, bodies 
of the judicial branch or bodies appointed by a constitutional officer solely for the purpose of advising a 
constitutional officer and shall not include the board of bank incorporation or the policyholders protective 
board; and provided further, that a subcommittee shall include any multiple -member body created to 
advise or make recommendations to a public body.  
 
Qualification for Office.  The election or appointment of a person to a public body and the taking of the 
oath of office, where required, and shall include qualification for a second or any subsequent term of 
office.  Where no term of office for a member of a public body is specified, the member shall be deemed 
to be qualified for office on a biennial basis following appointment or election to office. 
 
Regional Public Body.  A public body with jurisdiction that extends to two or more municipalities. 
 
Remote Participation.  Participation by a member of a public body during a meeting of that public body 
where the member is not physically present at the meeting location.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 38===
38 | Page  
 
29.03:   Notice Posting Requirements 
 
(1)   Requirements Applicable to All Public Bodies.  
(a) Except in an emergency, public bodies shall file meeting notices sufficiently in advance of a 
public meeting to permit posting of the notice at least 48 hours in advance of the public 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, in accordance with M.G.L.  c. 30A, 
§ 20.  In an emergency, the notice shall be posted as soon as reasonably possible prior to such 
meeting.  
(b) Meeting notices shall be printed or displayed in a legible, easily understandable format and 
shall contain the date, time and place of such meeting, and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.  The list of topics shall have sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 
(c) Notices posted under an alternative posting method authorized by 940 CMR 29.03(2) through 
(5) shall include the same content as required by 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b).  If such an alternative 
posting method is adopted, the municipal clerk, in the case of a munici pality, or the body, in 
all other cases, shall file with the Attorney General written notice of adoption of the 
alternative method, including the website address where applicable, and any change thereto, 
and the most current notice posting method on file w ith the Attorney General shall be 
consistently used. 
(d) The date and time that a meeting notice is posted shall be conspicuously recorded thereon or 
therewith.  If an amendment occurs within 48 hours of a meeting, not including Saturdays, 
Sundays, and legal holidays, then the date and time that the meeting notice is amended shall 
also be conspicuously recorded thereon or therewith.  
 
(2)   Requirements Specific to Local Public Bodies. 
(a) The official method of posting notice shall be by filing with the municipal clerk, or other person 
designated by agreement with the municipal clerk, who shall post notice of the meeting in a 
manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in, on, o r near the municipal building 
in which the clerk’s office is located.  
(b) Alternatively, the municipality may adopt the municipal website as the official method of 
notice posting. 
1. The Chief Executive Officer of the municipality, as defined in M.G.L. c. 4, § 7, must 
authorize or, by a simple majority, vote to adopt the municipal website as the official 
method of posting notice.  Any municipality that has adopted its website as the official 
method of posting notice by another method as of October 6, 2017 will have satisfied 
the adoption requirement. 
2. If adopted, a description of the website as the notice posting method, including 
directions on how to locate notices on the website, shall be posted in a manner 
conspicuously visible to the public at all hours on or adjacent to the main and 
handicapped accessible entrances to the municipal building in which the clerk’s office 
is located.   
3. Once adopted as the official method of notice posting, the website shall host the 
official legal notice for meetings of all public bodies within the municipality.  
4. Notices must continue to be filed with the municipal clerk, or any other person 
designated by agreement with the municipal clerk. 
===PAGE 39===
39 | Page  
 
(c) A municipality may have only one official notice posting method for the purpose of M.G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18 through 25, either 940 CMR 29.03(2)(a) or (b).  However, nothing precludes a 
municipality from choosing to post additional notices via  other methods, including a 
newspaper.  Such additional notice will not be the official notice for the purposes of M.G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18 through 25.  
(d) Copies of notices shall also be accessible to the public in the municipal clerk’s office during 
the clerk’s business hours. 
 
(3)   Requirements Specific to Regional or District Public Bodies.  
(a) Notice shall be filed and posted in each city and town within the region or district in the 
manner prescribed for local public bodies in that city or town.  
(b) As an alternative method of notice, a regional or district public body may, by majority vote, 
adopt the regional or district public body’s website as its official notice posting method. A 
copy of each meeting notice shall be kept by the chair of the public  body or the chair’s 
designee in accordance with the applicable records retention schedules.  The public body shall 
file and post notice of the website address, as well as directions on how to locate notices on 
the website, in each city and town within the  region or district in the manner prescribed for 
local public bodies in that city or town. 
 
(4)   Requirements Specific to Regional School Districts.  
(a) The secretary of the regional school district committee shall be considered to be its clerk.  The 
clerk of the regional school district committee shall file notice with the municipal clerk of each 
city and town within such district and each such municipal clerk shall post the notice in the 
manner prescribed for local public bodies in that city or town.  
(b) As an alternative method of notice, a regional school district committee may, by majority 
vote, adopt the regional school district’s website as its official notice posting method.  A copy 
of each meeting notice shall be kept by the secretary of the regional school district committee 
or the secretary’s designee in accordance with the applicable records retention schedules. 
The regional school district committee shall file and post notice of the website address, as 
well as directions on how to locate notices on the website, in each city and town within the 
region or district in the manner prescribed for local public bodies in that city or town. 
 
(5)   Requirements Specific to County Public Bodies. 
(a) Notice shall be filed and posted in the office of the county commissioners and a copy of the 
notice shall be publicly posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in 
such place or places as the county commissioners shall designate for this purpose.  
(b) As an alternative method of notice, a county public body may, by majority vote, adopt the 
county public body’s website as its official notice posting method.  A copy of the notice shall 
be kept by the chair of the county public body or the chair’s designee in accordance with the 
applicable records retention schedules.  The county public body shall file and post notice of 
the website address, as well as directions on how to locate notices on the website, in the 
office of the county commissioners and a copy o f the notice shall be publicly posted in a 
manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in such place or places as the county 
commissioners shall designate for this purpose. 
 
===PAGE 40===
40 | Page  
 
(6)   Requirements Specific to State Public Bodies.  Notice shall be posted on a website. A copy of each 
notice shall also be sent by first class or electronic mail to the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s 
Regulations Division.  The chair of each state public body shall notify the Attorney General in writing of its 
webpage for listing meeting notices and any change to the webpage location.  The public body shall 
consistently use the most current website location on file with the Attorney General.  A copy of the notice 
shall be kept by the chair of the state public body or the chair’s designee in accordance with the applicable 
records retention schedules. 
 
(7)   Websites.  Where a public body adopts a website as its method of noticing meetings, it must make 
every effort to ensure that the website is accessible to the public at all hours.  If a website becomes 
inaccessible to members of the public within 48 hours of a meeting, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and 
legal holidays, the municipal clerk or other individual responsible for posting notice to the website must 
restore the website to accessibility within six hours of the time, during regular business hours, when such 
individual discovers that the website has become inaccessible.  In the event that the website is not 
restored to accessibility within six business hours of the website’s deficiency being discovered, the public 
body must re -post notice of its meeting for another date and time in accordance with M.G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). 
 
29.04:   Certification 
 
(1)   For local public bodies, the municipal clerk, and for all other public bodies, the appointing authority, 
executive director, or other appropriate administrator or their designees, shall, upon a public body 
member’s qualification for office, either de liver to the public body member, or require the public body 
member to obtain from the Attorney General’s website, the following educational materials: 
(a) The Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law Guide , which will include an explanation of the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law; the Open Meeting Law, M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 
25; and 940 CMR 29.00.  
(b) A copy of each Open Meeting Law determination issued to that public body by the Attorney 
General within the last five years in which the Attorney General found a violation of M.G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18 through 25.  Open Meeting Law determinations are available a t the Attorney 
General’s website.    
 
(2)   Educational materials may be delivered to public body members by paper copy or in digital form.  
 
(3)   Within two weeks after receipt of the educational materials, the public body member shall certify, on 
the form prescribed by the Attorney General, receipt of the educational materials.  The municipal clerk, 
appointing authority, executive director or  other appropriate administrator, or their designees, shall 
maintain the signed certification for each such person, indicating the date the person received the 
materials. 
 
(4)   An individual serving on multiple public bodies must sign a certification for each public body on which 
he or she serves.  A public body member does not need to sign a separate certification when joining a 
subcommittee of the public body. 
 
(5)   A public body member must sign a new certification upon reelection or reappointment to the public 
body. 
 
===PAGE 41===
41 | Page  
 
29.05:   Complaints 
 
(1)   All complaints shall be in writing, using the form approved by the Attorney General and available on 
the Attorney General’s website.  A public body need not, and the Attorney General will not, investigate or 
address anonymous complaints.  A public body need not address a complaint that is not signed by the 
complainant.  A public body need not address a complaint that is not filed using the Attorney General’s 
complaint form. 
 
(2)   Public bodies, or the municipal clerk in the case of a local public body, should provide any person, on 
request, with an Open Meeting Law Complaint Form.  If a paper copy is unavailable, then the public body 
should direct the requesting party to the Attorney General’s website, where an electronic copy of the 
form will be available for downloading and printing.  
 
(3)   For local public bodies, the complainant shall file the complaint with the chair of the public body, who 
shall disseminate copies of the complaint to the members of the public body.  The complainant shall also 
file a copy of the complaint with the municipal clerk, who shall keep such filings in an orderly fashion for 
public review on request during regular business hours. For all other public bodies, the complainant shall 
file the complaint with the chair of the relevant public body, or if there is no  chair, then with the public 
body. 
 
(4)   The complaint shall be filed within 30 days of the alleged violation of M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25 
or, if the alleged violation of M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25 could not reasonably have been known at 
the time it occurred, then within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered.  
 
(5)   Within 14 business days after receiving the complaint, unless an extension has been granted by the 
Attorney General as provided in 940 CMR 29.05(5)(b), the public body shall meet to review the complaint’s 
allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the complainant a response and a description 
of any remedial action taken.  The public body shall simultaneously notify the Attorney General that it has 
sent such materials to the complainant and shall provide the Attorney General with a copy of the 
complaint, the response, and a description of any remedial action taken. 
(a)  Any remedial action taken by the public body in response to a complaint under 940  CMR 
29.05(5) shall not be admissible as evidence that a violation occurred in any later 
administrative or judicial proceeding against the public body relating to the alleged violation.  
(b) If the public body requires additional time to resolve the complaint, it may obtain an extension 
from the Attorney General by submitting a written request within 14 business days after 
receiving the complaint.  A request may be submitted by the chair, the public body’s attorney, 
or any person designated by the public body or the chair.  The Attorney General will grant an 
extension if the request demonstrates good cause.  Good cause will generally be found if, for 
example, the public body cannot meet within the 14 business day period to consider proposed 
remedial action.  The Attorney General shall notify the complainant of any extension and the 
reason for it.  
 
(6)   If the public body needs additional information to resolve the complaint, then the chair may request 
it from the complainant within seven business days of receiving the complaint.  The complainant shall 
respond within ten business days after receiving the request.  The public body will then have an additional 
ten business days after receiving the complainant’s response to review the complaint and take any 
remedial action pursuant to 940 CMR 29.05(5).  
===PAGE 42===
42 | Page  
 
 
(7)   If at least 30 days have passed after the complaint was filed with the public body, and if the 
complainant is unsatisfied with the public body’s resolution of the complaint, the complainant may file a 
complaint with the Attorney General.  When filing a complaint with the Attorney General, the complainant 
shall include a copy of the original complaint along with any other materials the complainant believes are 
relevant.  The Attorney General shall decline to investigate complaints filed with the Attorney General 
more than 90 days after the alleged violation of M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25, or if the alleged violation 
of M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25, could not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then 
within 90 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered.  However, this time may be 
extended if the Attorney General grants an extension to the public body to respond to a complaint or if 
the complainant demonstrates good cause for the delay in filing with the Attorney General.  
 
(8)   The Attorney General shall acknowledge receipt of all complaints and will resolve them within a 
reasonable period of time, generally 90 days. 
 
(9)   Mediation to Resolve a Complaint. 
(a) If a complainant files five complaints alleging violations of M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25, 
with the same public body or within the same municipality within 12 months, upon the fifth 
or subsequent complaint to that public body or a public body within that municipality within 
the 12-month period, the public body may request mediation with the complainant, at the 
public body’s expense, to resolve the complaint.  A mediator is defined by M.G.L. c. 233, § 
23C, and will be selected by the Attorney General.  
(b) A public body must request mediation prior to, or with, its response to the complaint. If the 
mediation does not produce an agreement, the public body will have ten business days from 
the last joint meeting with the mediator to respond to the complaint. 
(c) A public body may participate in mediation in open session, in executive session through 
M.G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(9), or by designating a representative to participate on behalf of the 
public body. 
(d) If the complainant declines to participate in mediation after a public body’s request in 
accordance with 940 CMR 29.05(9)(a), the Attorney General may decline to review the 
complaint if it is thereafter filed with the Attorney General. 
(e) If the mediation does not resolve the complaint to the satisfaction of both parties, then the 
complainant may file a copy of his or her complaint with the Attorney General and request 
the Attorney General’s review. The complaint must be filed with the Attorney General within 
30 days of the last joint meeting with the mediator.  
(f) Any written agreement reached in mediation shall become a public record in its entirety and 
must be publicly disclosed at the next meeting of the public body following execution of the 
agreement.  
(g) Nothing in 940 CMR 29.05(9) shall prevent a complainant from filing subsequent complaints, 
however public bodies may continue to request mediation in an effort to resolve complaints 
in accordance with 940 CMR 29.05(9)(a). 
(h) Nothing in 940 CMR 29.05(9) shall prevent a public body or complainant from seeking 
mediation to resolve any complaint.  However, only mediation requests that follow the 
requirements of 940 CMR 29.05(9)(a) will trigger the application of 940 CMR 29.05(9)(d). 
 
 
===PAGE 43===
43 | Page  
 
29.06:   Investigation 
 
Following a timely complaint filed pursuant to 940 CMR 29.05, where the Attorney General has reasonable 
cause to believe that a violation of M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25 has occurred, then the Attorney 
General may conduct an investigation.  
 
(1)   The Attorney General shall notify the public body or person that is the subject of a complaint of the 
existence of the investigation within a reasonable period of time.  The Attorney General shall also notify 
the public body or person of the nature of the alleged violation.  
 
(2)   Upon notice of the investigation, the subject of the investigation shall provide the Attorney General 
with all information relevant to the investigation.  The subject may also submit a memorandum or other 
writing to the Attorney General addressing the allegations being investigated.  
If the subject of the investigation fails to voluntarily provide the necessary or relevant information 
within 30 days of receiving notice of the investigation, the Attorney General may issue one or more civil 
investigative demands to obtain the information in accordance with M.G.L. c. 30A, § 24(a), to:  
(a) Take testimony under oath;  
(b) Examine or cause to be examined any documentary material; or  
(c) Require attendance during such examination of documentary material by any person having 
knowledge of the documentary material and take testimony under oath or acknowledgment 
in respect of any such documentary material.  
Any documentary material or other information produced by any person pursuant to 940 CMR 29.06 
shall not, unless otherwise ordered by a court of the Commonwealth for good cause shown, be disclosed 
without that person’s consent by the Attorney General to an y person other than the Attorney General’s 
authorized agent or representative.  However, the Attorney General may disclose the material in court 
pleadings or other papers filed in court; or, to the extent necessary, in an administrative hearing or in a 
written determination to resolve the investigation pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07. 
 
29.07:   Resolution 
 
(1)   No Violation.  If the Attorney General determines after investigation that M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 
25 has not been violated, the Attorney General shall issue a written determination to the subject of the 
complaint and copy any complainant.  
 
(2)   Violation Resolved Without Hearing.  If the Attorney General determines after investigation that 
M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25 has been violated, the Attorney General may resolve the investigation 
without a hearing.  The Attorney General shall determine whether the relevant public body, one or more 
of its members, or both, were responsible.  The Attorney General will notify in writing any complainant of 
the investigation’s resolution.  Upon finding a violation of M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25, the  Attorney 
General may take one of the following actions:  
(a) I
nformal Action .  The Attorney General may resolve the investigation with a letter or other 
appropriate form of written communication that explains the violation and clarifies the 
subject’s obligations under M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25, providing the subject with a 
reasonable period of time to comply with any outstanding obligations.  
(b) F
ormal Order.  The Attorney General may resolve the investigation with a formal order. The 
order may require:  
1. immediate and future compliance with M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25; 
===PAGE 44===
44 | Page  
 
2. attendance at a training session authorized by the Attorney General;  
3. nullification of any action taken at the relevant meeting, in whole or in part; 
4. that minutes, records or other materials be made public;   
5. that an employee be reinstated without loss of compensation, seniority, tenure or 
other benefits; or 
6. other appropriate action.  
(c) Orders shall be available on the Attorney General’s website.  
 
(3)   Violation Resolved After Hearing.  The Attorney General may conduct a hearing where the Attorney 
General deems appropriate.  The hearing shall be conducted pursuant to 801 CMR 1.00:  Formal Rules, as 
modified by any regulations issued by the Attorney General.  At the conclusion of the hearing, the Attorney 
General shall determine whether a violation of M.G.L.  c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25 occurred, and whether 
the public body, one or more of its members, or both, were responsible.  The Attorney General will notify 
in writing any complainant of the investigation’s resolution.  Upon a finding that a violation occurred, the 
Attorney General may order: 
(a) immediate and future compliance with M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25;  
(b) attendance at a training session authorized by the Attorney General;  
(c) nullification of any action taken at the relevant meeting, in whole or in part;  
(d) imposition of a fine upon the public body of not more than $1,000 for each intentional 
violation; however, a fine will not be imposed where a public body or public body member 
acted in good faith compliance with the advice of the public body’s legal counsel, in 
accordance with M.G.L. 30A, § 23(g); 
(e) that an employee be reinstated without loss of compensation, seniority, tenure or other 
benefits;  
(f) that minutes, records or other materials be made public; or  
(g) other appropriate action.  
 
Orders issued following a hearing shall be available on the Attorney General’s website.  
 
(4)   A public body, subject to an order of the Attorney General following a written determination issued 
pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07, shall notify the Attorney General in writing of its compliance with the order 
within 30 days of receipt of the order, unless otherwise indicated by the order itself.  A public body need 
not notify the Attorney General of its compliance with an order requiring immediate and future 
compliance pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07(2)(b)1. or 940 CMR 29.07(3)(a). 
 
(5)   A public body or any member of a body aggrieved by any order issued by the Attorney General under 
940 CMR 29.07 may obtain judicial review of the order through an action in Superior Court seeking relief 
in the nature of certiorari.  Any such action must be commenced in Superior Court within 21 days of receipt 
of the order.  
 
29.08:   Advisory Opinions 
 
The Attorney General will generally not issue advisory opinions.  However, the Attorney General may issue 
written guidance to address common requests for interpretation.  Such written guidance will appear on 
the Attorney General’s website. 
 
===PAGE 45===
45 | Page  
 
29.09:   Other Enforcement Actions 
 
Nothing in 940 CMR 29.06 or 29.07 shall limit the Attorney General’s authority to file a civil action to 
enforce M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25 pursuant to M.G.L. c. 30A, § 23(f).  
 
29.10:   Remote Participation 
 
(1)   Preamble.  Remote participation may be permitted subject to the following procedures and 
restrictions.  However, the Attorney General strongly encourages members of public bodies to physically 
attend meetings whenever possible.  By promulgating 940 CMR 29.10, the Attorney General hopes to 
promote greater participation in government.  Members of public bodies have a responsibility to ensure 
that remote participation in meetings is not used in a way that would defeat the purposes of M.G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18 through 25, n amely promoting transparency with regard to deliberations and decisions on 
which public policy is based.  
 
(2)   Adoption of Remote Participation.  Remote participation in meetings of public bodies is not permitted 
unless the practice has been adopted as follows:  
(a) L ocal Public Bodies .  The Chief Executive Officer, as defined in M.G.L. c. 4, § 7, must authorize 
or, by a simple majority, vote to allow remote participation in accordance with the 
requirements of 940 CMR 29.10, with that authorization or vote applying to all subsequent 
meetings of all local public bodies in that municipality. 
(b) R egional or District Public Bodies .  The regional or district public body must, by a simple 
majority, vote to allow remote participation in accordance with the requirements of 940 CMR 
29.10, with that vote applying to all subsequent meetings of that public body and its 
committees.  
(c) R egional School Districts .  The regional school district committee must, by a simple majority, 
vote to allow remote participation in accordance with the requirements of 940 CMR 29.10, 
with that vote applying to all subsequent meetings of that public body and its committees.  
(d) C ounty Public Bodies .  The county commissioners must, by a simple majority, vote to allow 
remote participation in accordance with the requirements of 940 CMR 29.10, with that vote 
applying to all subsequent meetings of all county public bodies in that county.  
(e) S tate Public Bodies .  The state public body must, by a simple majority, vote to allow remote 
participation in accordance with the requirements of 940 CMR 29.10, with that vote applying 
to all subsequent meetings of that public body and its committees.  
(f) R
etirement Boards .  A retirement board created pursuant to M.G.L. c. 32, § 20 or M.G.L.  c. 
34B, § 19 must, by a simple majority, vote to allow remote participation in accordance with 
the requirements of 940 CMR 29.10, with that vote applying to all subsequent meetings of 
that public body and its committees.  
(g) L
ocal Commissions on Disability.  In accordance with M.G.L. c. 30A, § 20(e), a local commission 
on disability may, by majority vote of the commissioners at a regular meeting, authorize 
remote participation applicable to a specific meeting or generally to all of the commission’s 
meetings.  If a local commission on disability is authorized to utilize remote participation, a 
physical quorum of that commission’s members shall not be required to be present at the 
meeting location; provided, however, that the cha ir or, in the chair’s absence, the person 
authorized to chair the meeting, shall be physically present at the meeting location.  The 
commission shall comply with all other requirements of law. 
===PAGE 46===
46 | Page  
 
(3)   Revocation of Remote Participation .  Any person or entity with the authority to adopt remote 
participation pursuant to 940 CMR 29.10(2) may revoke that adoption in the same manner.  
 
(4)   Minimum Requirements for Remote Participation.  
(a) Members of a public body who participate remotely and all persons present at the meeting 
location shall be clearly audible to each other as required by M.G.L. c. 30A, § 20(d);  
(b) A quorum of the body, including the chair or, in the chair’s absence, the person authorized to 
chair the meeting, shall be physically present at the meeting location as required by M.G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(d);  
(c) Members of public bodies who participate remotely may vote and shall not be deemed absent 
for the purposes of M.G.L. c. 39, § 23D.  
 
(5)   Permissible Reason for Remote Participation.  If remote participation has been adopted in accordance 
with 940 CMR 29.10(2), a member of a public body shall be permitted to participate remotely in a meeting 
in accordance with the procedures described in 940 CMR 29.10(7) only if physical attendance would be 
unreasonably difficult.  
 
(6)   Technology. 
(a) The following media are acceptable methods for remote participation.  Remote participation 
by any other means is not permitted.  Accommodations shall be made for any public body 
member who requires TTY service, video relay service, or other form of adaptiv e 
telecommunications. 
1. telephone, internet, or satellite enabled audio or video conferencing;  
2. any other technology that enables the remote participant and all persons present at 
the meeting location to be clearly audible to one another.  
(b) When video technology is in use, the remote participant shall be clearly visible to all persons 
present in the meeting location.  
(c) The public body shall determine which of the acceptable methods may be used by its 
members. 
(d) The chair or, in the chair’s absence, the person chairing the meeting, may decide how to 
address technical difficulties that arise as a result of utilizing remote participation, but is 
encouraged wherever possible to suspend discussion while reasonable eff orts are made to 
correct any problem that interferes with a remote participant’s ability to hear or be heard 
clearly by all persons present at the meeting location.  If technical difficulties result in a 
remote participant being disconnected from the meeting, that fact and the time at which the 
disconnection occurred shall be noted in the meeting minutes.  
(e) The amount and source of payment for any costs associated with remote participation shall 
be determined by the applicable adopting entity identified in 940 CMR 29.10(2).  
 
(7)   Procedures for Remote Participation. 
(a) Any member of a public body who wishes to participate remotely shall, as soon as reasonably 
possible prior to a meeting, notify the chair or, in the chair’s absence, the person chairing the 
meeting, of his or her desire to do so and the reason for and fact s supporting his or her 
request.  
(b) At the start of the meeting, the chair shall announce the name of any member who will be 
participating remotely.  This information shall also be recorded in the meeting minutes.  
===PAGE 47===
47 | Page  
 
(c) All votes taken during any meeting in which a member participates remotely shall be by roll 
call vote.  
(d) A member participating remotely may participate in an executive session, but shall state at 
the start of any such session that no other person is present and/or able to hear the discussion 
at the remote location, unless presence of that person is approved by a simple majority vote 
of the public body.  
(e) When feasible, the chair or, in the chair’s absence, the person chairing the meeting, shall 
distribute to remote participants in advance of the meeting, copies of any documents or 
exhibits that he or she reasonably anticipates will be used during the meeting.  If used during 
the meeting, such documents shall be part of the official record of the meeting and shall be 
listed in the meeting minutes and retained in accordance with M.G.L. c. 30A, § 22.  
 
(8)   Further Restriction by Adopting Authority .  940 CMR 29.10 does not prohibit any person or entity 
with the authority to adopt remote participation pursuant to 940 CMR 29.10(2) from enacting policies, 
laws, rules or regulations that prohibit or further restrict the use of remote participation by public bodies 
within that person or entity’s jurisdiction, provided those policies, laws, rules or regulations do not violate 
state or federal law.  
 
(9)   Remedy for Violation.  If the Attorney General determines after investigation that 940 CMR 29.10 has 
been violated, the Attorney General may resolve the investigation by ordering the public body to 
temporarily or permanently discontinue its use of remote participation.  
 
29.11:   Meeting Minutes 
 
(1)   A public body shall create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings including executive sessions, 
setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on 
each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the 
actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes in accordance with M.G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
 
(2)   Minutes of all open and executive sessions shall be created and approved in a timely manner.  A 
“timely manner” will generally be considered to be within the next three public body meetings or within 
30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.  The Attorney 
General encourages public bodies to approve minutes at the next meeting whenever possible.  
 
REGULATORY AUTHORITY 
940 CMR 29.00:  M.G.L. c. 30A, § 25(a) and (b). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 48===
48 | Page  
 
Certificate of Receipt of Open Meeting Law Materials 
 
I, ____________________________________, who qualified as a member of the 
                                 (Name) 
 
______________________________________, on ________________, certify pursuant 
                            (Public Body)                                            (Date) 
 
to G.L. c. 30A, § 20(h) and 940 CMR 29.04, that I have received and reviewed copies of the following 
Open Meeting Law materials: 
1) the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25; 
 
2) the Attorney General’s Regulations, 940 CMR 29.00–29.11; 
 
3) the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law Guide, explaining the Open Meeting Law and its 
application; and 
 
4) if applicable, a copy of each Open Meeting Law determination issued by the Attorney 
General within the last five (5) years to the public body of which I am a member and in 
which the Attorney General found a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
I have read and understand the requirements of the Open Meeting Law and the consequences of 
violating it.  I further understand that the materials I have received may be revised or updated from time 
to time, and that I have a continuing obligation to implement any changes to the Open Meeting Law 
during my term of office. 
 
      __________________________________ 
              (Name) 
 
             
      ___________________________________ 
             (Name of Public Body) 
 
       
      ___________________________________ 
             (Date) 
 
Pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 20(h), an executed copy of this certificate shall be retained, according to the relevant 
records retention schedule, by the appointing authority, city or town clerk, or the executive director or other 
appropriate administrator of a state or regional body, or their designee.
 