===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 16,2017 
OML 2017-97 
Lauren Goldberg, Esq. 
KP Law PC 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Goldberg: 
This office received a complaint from Bryan Dumont on March 16, alleging that the 
Shirley Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about December 29, 2016 
and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated March 6. In his complaint, Mr. 
Dumont alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a meeting. Additionally, Mr. Dumont 
alleges that a topic listed on the Board's February 6 meeting notice lacked sufficient detail. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notice and minutes of the Board's February 6 meeting, as well as portions of the 
recording of that meeting.2 Finally, we spoke with you on May 31 during which you relayed 
information to us from the Board Chair Enrico Cappucci. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body, thus two 
members constitute a quorum. In a special election held on January 30, two of the three 
Board members were recalled and replaced by two new Board members. A few weeks prior 
to the election, Mr. Cappucci, the sole remaining Board member, discussed rescheduling the 
date of the Annual Town Meeting with the two candidates running for the Board seats that 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise indicated. 
2 Available at https://www.shirleymedia.org/vod/meetings/board-of-selectmen-full. 
===PAGE 2===
would be left vacant if the incumbents were recalled.3 All three indicated a desire to change 
the date of Town Meeting from April 29 to May 15. Following the election, the newly-
constituted Board did just that during its February 6 meeting and voted to reschedule the date 
of the Annual Town Meeting to May 15. 
The Board also discussed the Recreation Commission at this meeting. The meeting 
notice, posted on February 2, listed this discussion topic as "Recreation Commission Request 
from Auditor/Outside Review." The Board, along with the town auditor and the Recreation 
Commission, discussed a request to the district attorney's office, under the direction of the 
former Board chair, to investigate the Recreation Commission's finances. The Board voted to 
have Mr. Cappucci "contact the District Attorney's Office to request that they allow the town 
and [the town auditor] to hold a control audit instead of their office getting involved at this 
time." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School 
Commission of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive 
session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. 
c. BOA, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include 
the distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents 
that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id 
For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority of the members 
of the public body. Id. 
The law further requires a public body to post notice of a meeting at least 48 hours in 
advance, including a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics on a notice with 
"sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2014-47.4 We generally consider a topic sufficiently 
specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the 
anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35. 
The complaint alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a meeting to reschedule 
the date for Annual Town Meeting. The special election occurred on January 30. The 
conversations between Mr. Cappucci and the two candidates running for election to the Board 
occurred several weeks prior to the election. Because Mr. Cappucci had conversations with 
3 Mr. Cappucci could not recall the specific dates when those conversations had occurred. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website; 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
individuals who were not yet elected to serve on the Board, we find that no deliberation 
occurred because only one participant in those conversations was a member of the Board. See 
OML 2012-63. Accordingly, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law, 
The complaint also alleges that a topic listed on the Board's February 6 meeting notice 
concerning the Recreation Commission lacked sufficient detail because it failed to indicate 
that the town auditor would be present. Although that additional detail would have been 
useful, we find that the topic listed, "Recreation Commission Request from Auditor/Outside 
Review," provided enough detail to inform the public that a request was submitted to the 
Board by the auditor concerning the Recreation Commission. Based on the information 
included on the notice, it was reasonably inferable that the auditor might be present for the 
discussion on this topic. See OML 2014-112; OML 2014-102. We therefore find no 
violation. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Bryan Dumont 
Shirley Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c), A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 