===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY (6' 7) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
October 16, 2013 
OML 2013 - 150 
Will Sinclair 
Chair 
Carver Redevelopment Authority 
108 Main Street 
Carver, MA 02330 
Dear Mr. Sinclair, 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Robert Belbin (the complainant) dated August 
21, 2013 alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by the Carver 
Redevelopment Authority (the Authority). The complaint was originally filed with the Authority 
on August 7, 2013, and the Authority responded to the original complaint by letter dated August 
19, 2013. The complaint specifically alleges that the Authority violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it deliberated on a matter within its jurisdiction after adjournment of its meeting on July 
22, 2013. 
In resolving this complaint, we reviewed the August 7, 2013 complaint filed with the 
Authority; the Authority's response, dated August 19, 2013; and the request for further review 
filed with this office dated August 21, 2013. We also reviewed audio recordings of the 
Authority's meetings held on July 22, 2013; August 5, 2013; and August 19, 2013.1 Finally, we 
spoke via telephone in September 2013 with counsel for the Authority. 
Following our review, we find that the Authority did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
because there was no communication between or among a quorum of the Authority's members 
after the adjournment of the July 22, 2013 meeting. 
FACTS 
From review of the audio recording of the July 22, 2013 Authority meeting, it is clear that 
the following occurred: 
The Authority is a four member board, thus three members constitute a quorum. On July 
22, 2013, the Authority convened a properly noticed open meeting to approve the minutes of 
1 These materials were included in the request for further review. 
1 
o 
===PAGE 2===
previous meetings and to discuss several ongoing projects. The meeting lasted about eleven 
minutes. The Authority then voted to adjourn. After the adjournment, two members of the 
Authority continued speaking regarding business conducted during the meeting. During this 
conversation, a quorum of the Authority remained in the room. The conversation ceased upon 
notice by the complainant, the secretary of the Authority, that deliberations were not to occur 
outside the posted meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Open Meeting Law defines a "meeting" as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined, in relevant part, as "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. A quorum is generally a simple majority of the 
body. See id. 
The discussion following the July 22, 2013 meeting of the Authority did not rise to the 
level of secret deliberations the legislature intended the Open Meeting Law to combat. The 
discussion occurred immediately following the motion to adjourn between two members of the 
Authority while the two other members discussed an item for inclusion in the next meeting's 
agenda. The participants in the conversation did not intend for the conversation to reach a 
quorum of the public body, and the lack of interaction between the two separate, concurrent 
conversations confirms that the conversation did not occur "among" the quorum. We find 
therefore that no violation of the Open Meeting Law occurred. While the audio showing the 
separate nature of the conversations easily enabled us to rule out any effort to subvert the Open 
Meeting Law, we caution the Authority that discussion of public business within a body's 
jurisdiction while a quorum is present risks deliberation. We commend the Authority for its 
vigilance responding to a member's concerns about a possible violation and encourage it to 
remain vigilant in the future. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Authority did not violate the Open Meeting Law when a conversation 
among two members of the Authority occurred following the adjournment of the July 22, 2013 
meeting because the discussion did not occur among a quorum of members. 
We now consider this matter closed. This determination does not address any other 
complaints which may be pending with our office or the Authority. If you have any questions 
regarding this determination please contact our office at (617) 963-2540. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Sincerely, 
IT Mark M. Higgins J/ 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Kathleen M. O'Donnell, Esq. 
Robert Belbin 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3 