===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
November 21, 2023  
  
OML 2023 – 200  
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
John T. Awdycki, Chair 
Municipal Grounds / Cemetery Commission 
50 Manca Drive 
Gardner MA 01440-2687 
  
jawdycki@msn.com 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Mr. Awdycki:  
 
This office received a complaint from Paul DeMeo on August 7, 2023, alleging that the 
Gardner Cemetery Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint originally was filed with the Commission on June 22.1  The 
Commission did not respond to the complaint until our office inquired on August 8 as to the 
status of the Commission’s response; the Commission’s Chair responded on August 8 by sending 
minutes from a meeting the Commission held on July 6.  The complaint alleges that topics listed 
on the notice for the Commission's June 22 meeting were insufficiently specific.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
because the meeting of June 22 did not go forward.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed 
the original complaint, with attached notice of meeting, the Commission’s response, with 
minutes from meeting held on July 6, the request for further review filed with our office, and the 
meeting calendar available on the City of Gardner municipal website. 
 
  
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2023.  
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
 On June 15, the Commission posted notice of a meeting to take place on June 22.  The 
notice for the June 22 meeting included the following list of topics for discussion: 
 
1. Approve Minutes of Previous Meeting 
2. Ordinances, General Laws and Special Acts 
3. Correspondence 
4. Financial Statement 
5. Status of Facilities 
6. Report from Department Head under Committee’s Jurisdiction 
7. New Business 
 
A casual review of the City of Gardner’s municipal website reveals that the Commission 
posted the identical list of topics on its notices for the preceding five meetings.  Indeed, in the 
three years leading up to the June 22 meeting, only one meeting notice provided greater 
specificity as to the topics anticipated for discussion (the agenda for the meeting on February 10, 
2022, included a discussion of welfare burial fees).   
 
According to the City’s website, the June 22 meeting was cancelled. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's 
discussion.  See OML 2015- 35; OML 2019-134.  We have previously stated that the Open 
Meeting Law requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public 
can make an informed decision whether to attend the meeting in order to observe the discussion 
regarding a topic of interest.  See OML 2023-86, 2023; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22; OML 
2015-74.   
 
Boilerplate placeholders are vague and fail to provide the public with an understanding of 
the anticipated topics to be discussed.  OML 2021- 121.  Generic notice topics, such as 
“Conversations with Board Members” do not satisfy the requirement of specificity.  OML 2022-
179.  We have provided ample guidance on this requirement.  See, e.g., OML 2023-24 (notice 
topic “A favorable Ordinance Committee report: Chapter 7 Ordinance Revisions” insufficient to 
reasonably inform public that City Council Ordinance Committee would discuss salary increases 
for city councilors and other city officials); OML 2022-174 (notice topic “2022- 2023 School 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Year Calendar” insufficient to reasonably inform public that school committee would discuss 
changing Columbus Day to Indigenous Peoples' Day on school calendar); OML 2019-89 (notice 
topics “Host Agreement,” “Land Development,” and “Non- Opposition letter” “did not 
sufficiently alert members of the public that the Selectboard would discuss a marijuana 
establishment - a topic that, no doubt, was the subject of immense public interest”); OML 2019-
117 (notice topics “Discussion of the AIDS Support Group's plans in Falmouth” and “Seeing 
[sic] formal letter of support from the Board of Health” did not sufficiently alert members of 
public that board of health would discuss and vote on a syringe access program).   
 
In this instance, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged in the complaint because the June 22 meeting was cancelled.  If a meeting does not go 
forward, there can be no violation founded on insufficient notice.  When a public body does not 
actually deliberate on a noticed topic, the public body cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with 
respect to that topic, even if it would have been insufficiently detailed had the public body 
proceeded with its deliberation.  See OML 2022-128; OML 2020-149; OML 2020-53; OML 
2015-63.  Although we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law, we note 
that the boilerplate notice posted for the Commission’s June 22 meeting, identical to those posted 
for nearly every meeting held during the prior three years, did not provide the level of specificity 
the Open Meeting Law requires.  
 
Lastly, we note that the Commission’s response to the complaint did not strictly adhere to 
procedural requirements.  Pursuant to the Attorney General’s regulations, a public body must, 
within 14 days of receiving an Open Meeting Law complaint, “meet to review the complaint's 
allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the complainant a response and a 
description of any remedial action taken.  The public body shall simultaneously notify the 
Attorney General that it has sent such materials to the complainant and shall provide the 
Attorney General with a copy of the complaint, the response, and a description of any remedial 
action taken.”  940 CMR 29.05(5).  Although the Commission met and discussed the complaint 
on July 6, which was within 14 days of receipt of the complaint, it did not send the complainant a 
response nor simultaneously provide the Attorney General with a copy of the complaint, a 
response and a description of remedial action taken.  We remind the Commission of its 
obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  As noted above, we decide as we do because the June 22 meeting, which was the subject 
of this complaint, was cancelled.  However, we caution the Commission that future notices must 
contain sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.2 
 
 
2 At its July 6 meeting, the Commission discussed Mr. DeMeo’s complaint and adopted a new format for its notices, 
which distinguishes matters of interest to the Commission from matters of interest to Municipal Grounds.  However, 
of greater importance than this separation is the need to explicitly list “specific items that arise,” as the Commission 
now recognizes it must do.  Only if it includes specific items will the Commission avoid the boilerplate agenda that 
runs afoul of Open Meeting Law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
Sincerel
y,  
  
 Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
  
 
cc: Paul DeMeo (via e-mail )  
 Gardner City Clerk (via e- mail: tsiriphan@gardner-ma.gov ) 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
