===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
May 19, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 62 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Philip Schreffler, Esq. 
Associate General Counsel 
Cannabis Control Commission 
philip.schreffler@cccmass.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Schreffler: 
 
This office received a complaint from Meghan Dube on January 6, 2025, alleging that the 
Cannabis Control Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on December 5, 
2024,
1 and Associate General Counsel Michael Bergquist responded on behalf of the 
Commission by letter dated December 26. The complaint alleges that the Commission convened 
in executive session on November 25 and December 4 for the improper purpose of selecting a 
new finalist for the position of Executive Director. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law on 
November 25 and December 4 by discussing topics in executive session that were not 
appropriate for executive session. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting 
Law complaint, the Commission’s response, and the request for further review. We also 
reviewed, in camera, minutes of the November 25 and December 4 executive sessions,
2 as well 
as minutes of open sessions held on October 28 and December 18. Finally, we also 
communicated by email and Teams call with Kajal Chattopadhyay, General Counsel for the 
Commission; Michael Bergquist, Associate General Counsel for the Commission; and Philip 
Schreffler, Associate General Counsel for the Commission.
3 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The executive session minutes we reviewed included redactions of discussions concerning two unrelated litigation 
matters that were not the subject of the present Open Meeting Law complaint.  
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. In May of 2024, the Commission began a search for a 
new Executive Director. During an October 28 open session meeting, the Commission 
interviewed four finalists for the Executive Director position and ultimately voted to direct the 
Acting Chair and the Chief People Officer to engage in negotiations with the selected finalist, 
David Lakeman. At some point thereafter, Mr. Lakeman withdrew himself from consideration 
for the Executive Director position.  
 
The Commission posted notice for a meeting to be held on November 25. The notice 
included the following executive session topics: 
 
Closed executive session under G. L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) to conduct strategy sessions 
in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel and G. L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(3) to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation 
because the open meeting  may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or 
litigating position of the public body. 
 
 The Commission held its executive session on November 25 as scheduled and during the 
executive session discussed the fact that Mr. Lakeman had withdrawn from consideration, 
whether to proceed with candidates that had already been interviewed, and the salary range for 
the Executive Director position.
4  
 
The Commission posted notice for a meeting to be held on December 4. The notice 
included the following executive session topics: 
 
Closed executive session under G. L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) to conduct strategy sessions 
in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel and G. L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(3) to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation 
because the open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or 
litigating position of the public body. 
 
The Commission held its executive session on December 4 as scheduled and during the 
executive session discussed whether to pursue one of the finalists already interviewed; 
determined a salary range for the Executive Director position; and discussed concerns about the 
negotiation process considering Mr. Lakeman’s withdrawal.  
 
During a December 18 open session meeting, the Acting Chair summarized the history of 
the Executive Director search, including Mr. Lakeman’s withdrawal, and proposed that the 
Commission extend an offer to one of the four finalists interviewed on October 28, Travis Ahern. 
In making this proposal the Acting Chair noted that the Commission had expressed support for 
 
4 Because the minutes of the November 25 and December 4, 2024, executive sessions have not yet been released to 
the public, we do not recount their content in detail here.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Mr. Ahern’s candidacy during the public interview held on October 28. After some discussion 
and a recess, the Commission voted to direct the Acting Chair and the Chief People Officer to 
engage in negotiations with Mr. Ahern. Mr. Ahern has accepted the position and is currently 
Executive Director of the Commission. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). To that end, the Law requires that all meetings of a public 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session 
for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). The ten 
executive session purposes are exceptions to the general rule that meetings of a public body shall 
be open to the public and as such are narrowly construed. See McRea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. 
Ct. 637, 641 (2008).  
 
Among the ten purposes for executive session is “Purpose 2,” which allows a public body 
to convene in executive session “[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations 
with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations 
with nonunion personnel.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2). When convening in executive session under 
Purpose 2, public bodies should identify, both in their notice and in the open session 
announcement, the name of the specific nonunion personnel or bargaining unit that is the subject 
of discussion under Purpose 2, unless disclosure would compromise the public body’s 
negotiating position.
5 See OML 2020-43; OML 2015-193.6 
 
We find that the Commission’s discussions on November 25 and December 4 regarding 
the Executive Director position were not appropriate for executive session under Purpose 2, or 
any other purpose. At the time of these discussions the Commission had not yet chosen a new 
finalist for the Executive Director position and was not engaged in negotiations with a particular 
candidate. Indeed, on November 25 and December 4 the Commission did not discuss strategy 
with respect to a particular negotiation; instead, the Commission discussed fallout from Mr. 
Lakeman’s withdrawal, how to move forward with the search process, and compensation for the 
Executive Director position. Discussions regarding recruitment and search processes, how to 
proceed when a candidate withdraws, and the general compensation range for a position do not 
 
5 We note that the notices for the November 25 and December 4 meetings did not identify any particular nonunion 
employee or position that would be discussed in executive session, nor did they identify the litigation matters to be 
discussed in executive session. We remind the Commission of its obligation to include such detail both on the 
meeting notice and in the announcement prior to convening in executive session, unless doing so would compromise  
the purpose for the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3) (“before the executive session, the chair shall state the 
purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for 
which the executive session was called.”); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 
Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary . . . 
because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the 
only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”) ; OML 2023-120; OML 2020-
43. 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website,  
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
fall within the scope of Purpose 2. See OML 2014-30 (executive session improper where “the 
Committee was not engaged in negotiations or discussing its strategy with respect to upcoming 
negotiation of nonunion employment contracts”); OML 2013-91 (“While a public body may 
discuss the contract of specific non-union personnel or discuss a collective bargaining agreement 
in executive session, general compensation policy must be discussed in open session”); OML 
2012-89 (“[G]eneral discussions of salary ranges and other requirements for a vacant position, 
unrelated to any specific candidate, are not appropriate for executive session.”); OML 2011-34 
(questions of candidates regarding “salary ranges and other requirements” not appropriate for 
executive session under Purpose 2 where they “were asked in the context of choosing a 
president, not negotiating their contract”); see also OML 2024-30 (finding improper for 
executive session under Purpose 8 “the Committee’s discussions regarding the fact that three 
candidates had withdrawn and the discussions regarding how to proceed in the face of this 
development”). Therefore, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing topics in executive session that were not appropriate for executive session. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by discussing topics in executive session on November 25 and December 4, 2024, that were 
not appropriate for executive session. We order the Commission’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that similar future violations could be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. Additionally, we order the Commission to 
release the executive session minutes to the public. The Commission may not redact any portion 
of the minutes related to discussion of the Executive Director position.
7 See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f) 
(providing that executive session minutes may be withheld from the public for so long as 
disclosure may defeat the lawful purpose of the executive session, provided that the executive 
session was held in compliance with section 21).  
 
Finally, in light of the violations found here and the related issues addressed in OML 
2025-61, we order the Commission to review the Attorney General’s training video number 4 
regarding executive sessions as well as our Public Body Checklist regarding executive sessions.
8 
 
  
 
7 The minutes of the November 25 and December 4, 2024, executive sessions also record the Commission’s 
discussions of two unrelated litigation matters. Those discussions were not the subject of the complaint resolved in 
this determination and we do not order the Commission to release the portions of the minutes that record discussions 
related to the litigation matters.  
8 Our training videos can be found on our website at https://www.mass.gov/info -details/open-meeting-law-training-
videos. Our Public Body Checklists can be found at https://www.mass.gov/info-details/open-meeting-law-
educational-materials.  
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Commission 
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
  
  
 
Sincerely,      
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
cc: Bruce Stebbins, Acting Chair, Cannabis Control Commission  
(via email: Bruce.Stebbins@CCCMass.com) 
Kajal Chattopadhyay, General Counsel, Cannabis Control Commission 
(via email: Kajal.Chattopadhyay@cccmass.com)  
 Meghan Dube (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
