===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACI-IUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
September 19, 2011 
OML 2011 - 37 
Mr. Bruce P. Gilmore 
Town Counsel 
Town of Yarmouth 
99 Willow Street 
Yarmouthport, MA 02675 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Gilmore: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Harris Contos on May 16, 2011, alleging that 
Ms. E. Suzanne McAuliffe violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Ms. 
McAuliffe serves on the Yarmouth Board of Selectmen (the "Board") and was a member of the 
ad hoc Removal Policy and Procedure Committee (the "Committee") appointed by the Town 
Moderator. Specifically, the complainant alleges that Ms. McAuliffe "demonstrated a repeated 
practice of intentionally initiating deliberation via e-mails to all members of the committee as 
well as to other individuals to influence wording of a bylaw." The complainant cites two e-mails 
sent by Ms. McAuliffe The complaint was initially filed against the Town Moderator, as the 
appointing authority for the Committee. It was dated February 26, 2011 and received by the 
Town Clerk on March 1, 2011. Your response to the complaint was received by this office on 
March 7, 2011. 
We reviewed the February 26, 2011 complaint filed with the Town Clerk, your March 7, 
2011 response, and the May 16, 2011 complaint separately filed with this office. We also 
reviewed copies of e-mails provided by the complainant. 
After a review of the information provided, we find that Ms. McAuliffe sent 
communications discussing public business within the Committee's jurisdiction to a quorum of 
the Committee, and that Ms. McAuliffe's actions constituted an individual violation of the Open 
Meeting Law. However, because the other Committee members did not respond to the e-mails, 
the Committee as a whole did not violate the law. 
1 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the materials, the facts are as follows. The Removal Policy 
and Procedure Committee was an ad hoc committee created by vote of the 2010 Annual Town 
Meeting. As the appointing authority, the Town Moderator appointed Ms. E. Suzanne 
McAuliffe and the complainant, Harris Contos, who chaired the Committee. According to the 
complaint filed with this office, the Committee "was formed to develop the policy and 
procedures whereby an appointed committee member in town could be removed from office, and 
this would be presented as a bylaw for approval at town meeting." The Committee submitted its 
final recommendation for consideration at the 2011 Annual Town Meeting. 
According to the complaint, Ms. McAuliffe "took to broadcasting e-mails to committee 
members" on multiple occasions dating back to at least November 6, 2010. The e-mails 
concerned the Committee's ongoing consideration and revision of removal policy and procedure. 
The complainant, however, furnished only two such e-mails with his original complaint, both 
from February 2011. 
Specifically, on February 5, 2011 at 12:38 p.m., Ms. McAuliffe received an e-mail from 
Committee Chair Contos containing draft language of the proposed removal policy for the 
Committee's review. The message titled "A Look Over" asked all members of the Committee to 
"[p]lease review and reply to me individually with any comments, corrections, edits you may 
have." Ms. McAuliffe replied by e-mail on February 6, 2011 at 8:47 a.m. to the Chair and every 
other member of the Committee stating that "[the] article language does sound a little disjointed 
and awkward. The original article crafted by Bob Lawton and town counsel seems smoother. I 
still have a concern about the requirement for a public hearing, I would like it [stated] that it is 
optional." 
Then on February 15, 2011 at 11:52 a.m., Ms. McAuliffe sent an e-mail to all members 
of the Committee and the Acting Town Administrator requesting that the Committee meet to 
resolve a conflict with proposed language concerning removal procedure. The e-mail stated that 
"[w]hen we took the language about the opportunity for a public hearing  out of the bylaw, it 
rendered it no longer compatible with the procedure language we approved. I think we need to 
meet to resolve this issue." (Emphasis in original). 
The record does not indicate that any members of the Committee responded to either of 
these e-mails sent by Ms. McAuliffe. Your response to the original complaint states that the 
Acting Town Administrator requested that the complainant schedule a public meeting to discuss 
Ms. McAuliffe's agenda item. 
We note that requests of this nature invite serial communications between members of a public body that may 
result in policy decisions made behind closed doors. A chair of a public body may collect comments and proposals 
from committee members but may only compile those comments and proposals for review at a meeting. Any fmal 
drafting of a policy proposal by the Chair that incorporates comments and opinions from public body members not 
made or reviewed during a meeting may constitute an unlawful deliberation. While we appreciate the aim of 
efficiency and the shortage of administrative support staff for volunteer public bodies, these requests for input may 
violate the Open Meeting Law and the spirit of open deliberation if they result in a final draft created without the 
comments being first aired in a public meeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that "all meetings of a public body shall be open to the 
public," subject to a narrow list of exceptions that can be conducted in executive session. G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(a). The law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding deliberations 
and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge, 
376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). 
A public body is "a multiple-member board, commission, committee or subcommittee 
within the executive or legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, 
however created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public 
purpose." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Committee was a public body appointed by the Town 
Moderator at the direction of Yarmouth Town Meeting. A meeting occurs whenever there is "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." Id. 
The law defines deliberation as "an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business 
within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of 
a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting or the 
distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion 
of a member is expressed." Id. (Emphasis added). 
Ms. McAuliffe's February 6, 2011 and February 15, 2011 e-mails to every member of the 
Committee were, in fact, written communications on public business within the jurisdiction of 
the Committee. Furthermore, the content of the messages expressed policy positions and 
opinions on official matters that were under active consideration by the Committee. 
Ms. McAuliffe's February 6, 2011 e-mail plainly asserted that "I still have a concern 
about the requirement for a public hearing, I would like it [stated] that it is optional." Your 
response to the original complaint states that this message was "a direct response to Mr. Contos' 
email." The record supports this assertion. However, Mr. Contos' message was clear in its 
instructions that recipients were to "review and respond to [him] individually." (Emphasis 
added). Ms. McAuliffe addressed her e-mail to all the members of the Committee. In addition, 
Ms. McAuliffe's February 15, 2011 e-mail advised that "[w]hen we took the language about the 
opportunity for a public hearing  out of the bylaw, it rendered it no longer compatible with the 
procedure language we approved." (Emphasis in original). This e-mail was also addressed to all 
the members of the Committee. 
The Open Meeting Law gives the Attorney General the authority to determine "whether 
the public body, 1 or more of the members, or both, are responsible" for a violation. G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(c). Here, Ms. McAuliffe's communications violated the Open Meeting Law's express 
prohibition on the dissemination of opinions to a quorum of other members outside of a meeting. 
See id. § 18. Although Ms. McAuliffe's communications could have resulted in further 
deliberation between or among members of the Committee outside of a meeting, the other 
members of the Committee demonstrated appropriate restraint in declining to respond. Because 
no other dialogue or exchange of opinions resulted between or among a quorum of the 
Committee, the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. Therefore, we find an 
individual violation only. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION 
Ms. McAuliffe's February 6, 2011 and February 15, 2011 e-mails were communications 
to a quorum of Committee members expressing opinions on issues under the Committee's 
consideration. The dissemination of these e-mails was an unintentional, individual violation of 
the Open Meeting Law, which could have resulted in an unlawful deliberation by the whole 
Committee. 
We remind Ms. McAuliffe of her obligation to comply with the requirements of the Open 
Meeting Law. We encourage all the members of the Committee to review the Attorney 
General's Open Meeting Law Guide to avoid any future violations. 
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this letter, 
please do not hesitate to contact me at the number below. 
nathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
cc: Harris Contos 
4 