===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 8, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 208 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Peter C. Sumners, Esq. 
Murphy, Lamere & Murphy, P.C.  
psumners@mlmlawfirm.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Sumners: 
 
This office received two complaints from David Fitzgerald, alleging that the Medway 
School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The first complaint was filed with the Committee on February 5, 2024, and, after an extension of 
time granted by our office, Committee chair Cindy Sullivan responded on behalf of the 
Committee by letter dated March 1, 2024. The second complaint was filed with the Committee 
on February 21, 2024, and Chair Sullivan responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated 
March 1, 2024. Thereafter, the Complainant filed both complaints with our office for further 
review on April 11, 2024. Together the complaints allege that the Committee deliberated outside 
of a properly posted meeting via serial communications and Facebook regarding a proposed 
change to the Medway Public Schools’ transportation program. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
in the ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaints, the Committee’s responses, the request for further review and documents provided 
therewith, including text messages, an email, and various sets of meeting minutes. We also 
reviewed portions of video recordings of Committee meetings held on October 26, 2023; 
December 7, 2023; January 18, 2024; and February 1, 2024.
1 Finally, we communicated with 
Attorney Sumners via email.2 
 
 
1 Video recordings of Committee meetings may be found at 
https://new.medwaycable.com/CablecastPublicSite/?channel=3. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The complaint concerns the Committee’s decision to 
adopt various changes to the school district’s transportation program, including increasing the 
distance from school at which families qualify for free transportation, instituting a transportation 
fee for families outside of that radius, and limiting the number of unique stops a family may 
request for a child. The Committee is a five-member public body; therefore, three members 
constitute a quorum.  
 
 During several public meetings held between October 19, 2023, and February 1, 2024, 
the Committee, as well as its Budget, Policy, and Transportation Subcommittees, received 
information and extensively discussed proposed changes to the school district’s transportation 
program and policy. The Committee and the school administration also provided many 
opportunities for the public to learn about and provide feedback on the proposed changes, 
including via a webinar and public office hours. 
 
Between January 3 and 29, 2024, various members of the Committee texted each other 
regarding topics related to the transportation program, including the cost of transportation, 
aspects of the current transportation program, feedback and concerns received from the public 
regarding proposed changes to the program, outreach to the public regarding the same, and 
holding office hours. Each of the text messages was between less than a quorum of the 
Committee, and although each may have related to the transportation program and the proposed 
changes thereto, the text messages did not relate to the same issues and none communicated 
information, thoughts, ideas, opinions, or plans between or among a quorum of the Committee. 
Additional text messages were exchanged between one member of the committee and members 
of the public. Finally, Chair Sullivan copied a quorum of the Committee on an email in which 
she responded to questions from a member of the public by providing information from the 
school administration.   
  
 On January 11, 2024, Committee member Melissa Greenfield posted to her “Melissa 
Greenfield – Medway School Committee” Facebook page, which is publicly accessible, as well 
as to her personal Facebook page, regarding budget and funding issues faced by the town and the 
school district and the proposal to charge a transportation fee in some circumstances. In the post 
Ms. Greenfield stated that she was sharing the information and her opinions “to provide some 
context in anticipation of tonight’s transportation webinar and proposed bus fee.” Chair Sullivan 
and Committee member Lauren Nassiff each “liked” Ms. Greenfield’s post, and Ms. Nassiff 
shared the post on her Committee Facebook page.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the s
 ecrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). To that end, the Law requires that notice be posted for 
every meeting of a public body and that meetings be open and accessible to the public, unless a 
lawful executive session has been convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)&(b), 21. A “meeting” is 
defined as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
jurisdiction,” and “deliberation” is defined broadly as any “oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Open Meeting Law does not 
carve out an exception to the definition of “deliberation” for communications that do not result in 
a decision or vote. See OML 2020-93.
3 Additionally, a public body may not engage in serial 
communication whereby a quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of 
a meeting on a matter within the public body’s jurisdiction. See OML 2015-3; OML 2012-84; 
OML 2011-27; McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that private serial 
communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to circumvent 
the intent of the law).   
 
I. The Committee did not improperly deliberate via Fa
 cebook. 
 
The first complaint alleges that Ms. Greenfield, Ms. Sullivan, and Ms. Nassiff improperly 
deliberated via Facebook when Ms. Greenfield posted to the platform regarding the proposed 
changes to the transportation program, Ms. Sullivan and Ms. Nassiff “liked” the post, and Ms. 
Nassiff shared the post on her own Facebook page. The Committee asserts that Ms. Greenfield’s 
intent in posting to Facebook regarding the proposal to implement a transportation fee was to 
provide information to the public and notes that “[t]he post was not directed at the Committee or 
any of its members and did not solicit responses from other Committee members.” The 
Committee further asserts that although “Ms. Sullivan and Ms. Nassiff each ‘liked’ the post, . . . 
they did not ‘react’ to the post or make any other posts/comments related to the post.” The 
Committee additionally asserts that “liking” a post on Facebook is “the default interaction,” and 
that neither Ms. Sullivan nor Ms. Nassiff were aware that the other had also “liked” the post. 
Finally, the Committee asserts that when Ms. Nassiff shared Ms. Greenfield’s post on her own 
publicly available Committee Facebook page she did so “without adding any of her own 
opinions,” and further notes that no other member of the Committee responded to either post.  
  
The Open Meeting Law does not restrict an individual’s right to communicate with the 
gener
al public. See OML 2020-139. Rather, the Open Meeting Law restricts communication 
between or among a quorum of a public body outside of a properly noticed meeting. Therefore, 
the communicator’s intent in communicating is significant and must be examined. See OML 
2021-66 (comments made by a public body member to a member of the public explaining the 
public body member’s reasoning and concerns did not constitute deliberation); OML 2020-139 
(a public body member’s comments regarding public body business that were posted to a large 
Facebook group were clearly directed to members of the public and therefore did not constitute 
deliberation); see also OML 2020-19; OML 2023-151. We find that Ms. Greenfield’s Facebook 
post, and Ms. Nassiff’s sharing of that post, were directed to the general public, and not to fellow 
Committee members, and therefore did not constitute improper deliberation.  
 
With respect to Ms. Sullivan and Ms. Nassiff “liking” Ms. Greenfield’s post, we do not 
agr
ee with the Committee’s assessment that affirmatively liking a post on Facebook is somehow 
a default action or is not a reaction to the post. See OML 2018-118 (finding a violation of the 
Open Meeting Law when public body members responded to a group text message initiated by a 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
constituent but that included a quorum of the public body with a “thumbs up” emoji and the 
stat
ement “I Agree”). Nonetheless, we decline to find a violation of the Open Meeting Law in 
this instance where neither Ms. Sullivan nor Ms. Nassiff knew that the other had “liked” Ms. 
Greenfield’s post and there is no indication that Ms. Greenfield solicited or expected any 
response. Although we do not find a violation, and we reiterate that the Open Meeting Law does 
not prohibit public body members from engaging with the public via social media, we caution 
Committee members about engaging directly with each other on social media platforms and note 
that polling public body members individually outside of a public meeting as to their preferences 
or positions on an issue is prohibited. See OML 2023-176; OML 2020-160; OML 2016-52; 
OML 2013-186. 
 
II. We find no evidence that the Committee improperly deliberated via seri
 al 
communications. 
 
In the second complaint the Complainant explains that after reviewing various records 
provided to him in response to a public records request, which records were shared with our 
office, it had become “evident that the Medway School Committee members were involved in a 
serial deliberation on the topic of the proposed changes to the Transportation Policy.” In support 
of this assertion, the complaint points to the text messages exchanged between various 
Committee members, the fact that some members had offered to have phone calls with one 
another, and that Committee members held office hours together. The complaint additionally 
asserts that the communications reviewed “made it clear that some members had not only made 
up [their] minds . . ., but they were also trying to change the minds of community members, and 
change the public narrative on the topic.” In the request for further review, the Complainant 
further states that the Committee’s office hours are “sub-quorum meetings” that “can easily lead 
to serial deliberation,” and specifically asserts that because Ms. Greenfield attended two different 
office hour sessions with two different Committee members she deliberated in a serial fashion. 
Finally, the request for further review specifically highlights, as evidence of deliberation, a text 
message in which one Committee member states “if I have reservations about voting for the 
transportation fee, what is the best way to approach that? I know we don’t have a choice but I 
think we need to work out a lot of details before it should be approved.”  
 
In response to the complaint, the Committee notes that the communications cited in the 
complaint—the text messages, office hours, phone calls, and emails—all occurred either between 
two Committee members, which is less than a quorum, or between a Committee member and 
members of the public. The Committee specifically asserts that “[t]hese communications were 
not shared with a quorum of the Committee.” Finally, the Committee has clarified that although 
some Committee members offered to have phone calls with other members, these phone calls 
never actually occurred. 
  
We find that the text messages reviewed by our office do not constitute deliberation 
because each was between less than a quorum of the Committee, concerned different issues, and 
did not communicate information, thoughts, ideas, opinions, or plans between or among a 
quorum of the Committee. Additionally, we find that the email from Chair Sullivan to a member 
of the public on which a quorum of the Committee was copied did not constitute deliberation 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
where Chair Sullivan simply responded to questions from a member of the public by sharing 
information from the school administration.   
 
Next, we find no evidence that the Committee otherwise deliberated outside of a properly 
notic
ed meeting. The Complainant asserts that the Committee’s office hours could have led to 
improper deliberation but has provided no evidence that they in fact did. Mere speculation or 
conjecture regarding deliberation outside of a posted meeting, without factual support, is 
insufficient to support a complaint’s allegations. See, e.g., OML 2012-59; OML 2014-114; OML 
2023-242; OML 2024-14; OML 2024-187. The office hours were intended to allow Committee 
members to hear from and communicate with members of the public, and the Committee denies 
that a quorum of members deliberated via the office hours. Absent sufficient evidence to the 
contrary, we credit a public body’s account of the facts. See OML 2023-121; OML 2017-93; 
OML 2016-141; see also LaPointe v. License Board of Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) (“There 
is every presumption in favor of the honesty and sufficiency of the motives actuating public 
officers in actions ostensibly taken for the general welfare.”). Finally, we note that the 
communications the Complainant asserts show that Committee members had made up their 
minds about the proposed changes to the transportation program and therefore must have 
improperly deliberated all occurred after the Committee’s December 7, 2023, meeting during 
which the Committee received an in-depth presentation about the proposed changes and 
discussed the same.
4 Additionally, during the meeting at which the Committee voted to approve 
changes to the transportation program, the Committee first engaged in extensive discussion, 
lasting for over an hour, regarding the proposed changes. Considering the above, we find no 
evidence that a quorum of the Committee deliberated outside of a meeting, and we therefore find 
no violation of the Open Meeting Law.  
 
 Although we do not find a violation here, we caution the Committee that engaging in 
ess
entially the same communications separately but with a quorum of members would constitute 
serial communication and thus deliberation. We further caution the Committee that 
communicating with fellow Committee members by email or text message may, even if 
inadvertently, lead to improper deliberation. See OML 2021-100 (finding improper deliberation 
via text message). Here, we find that the separate text messages, although pertaining to the same 
general subject matter, were of a sufficiently different nature from each other so as not to 
constitute deliberation among a quorum.  
 
Fina
lly, we remind the Committee that its subcommittees are public bodies in their own 
right and are fully subject to the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (defining “public body” 
to include subcommittees). Therefore, communications outside of a meeting between a quorum 
of a subcommittee regarding business within the subcommittee’s jurisdiction would constitute 
improper deliberation in violation of the Open Meeting Law. Because the complaint was filed 
only with the Committee and did not allege improper deliberation between or among a quorum 
of any of the Committee’s subcommittees, we do not make a finding as to whether any of the 
text messages reviewed may have constituted improper deliberation between or among a quorum 
of a subcommittee.  
 
4 We also note that it does not violate the Open Meeting Law for individual public body members to review relevant 
materials, become informed of the issues, and even form opinions outside of a meeting . See OML 2017-93; OML 
2022-231. 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law in the ways alleged. We now consider the complaints addressed by this 
determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may 
be pending with the Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 
963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Cindy Sullivan, Chair, Medway School Committee  
(via email: csullivan@medwayschools.org)  
Ellen Quinn, Executive Assistant to the Superintendent  
(via email: equinn@medwayschools.org) 
Stefany Ohannesian, Town Clerk (via email: sohannesian@townofmedway.org) 
David Fitzgerald (via email: ) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
