===PAGE 1===
E COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
May 23, 2018 
OML 2018-71 
George Hall, Jr., Esq. 
Anderson & Kreiger LLP 
50 Milk Street, 21st Floor 
Boston, MA 02109 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Hall: 
This office received two complaints from Timothy Duncan on September 29 and 
October 31, alleging that the Belmont Planning Board (the "Board") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaints were originally filed with the Board 
on or about August 11 and September 28, and you responded to the complaints, on behalf of 
the Board, by letters dated September 5 and October 18.2 In his complaints, Mr. Duncan 
alleges that the Board created "working groups" that did not comply with the Open Meeting 
Law. Additionally, Mr. Duncan alleges that, leading up to its approval of a site plan on 
August 31, the Board deliberated privately with the applicant about the application and its 
decision.3 
Following our review, we find that Board member Barbara Fiacco violated the Open 
Meeting Law by sending a document expressing her opinion to a quorum of the Board via a 
third party. However, although Ms. Fiacco participated in almost all of the "working group" 
meetings, those meetings did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching a determination, 
we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint 
filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed portions of the video 
recordings and meeting minutes from the following Board meetings: April 6; May 2; May 23; 
June 6; July 10; July 20; August 14; and August 31.4 We reviewed relevant email 
communications provided to our office by the complainant, which he had obtained through a 
public records request to the Board. Finally, in March and April of 2018, we spoke 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise specified. 
2 Our office granted the Board an extension of time to respond to the August 11 complaint until September 7. 
3 Additionally, Mr. Duncan alleges that the Board failed to make documents and information about this decision 
available to the public. The Public Records Law governs the public disclosure of documents other than meeting 
minutes, thus we decline to review this allegation. See G.L. c, 66, § 10. 
4 Recordings are available at http://www.belmontmedia.org/watch/govt-ed-access/planning-board. 
1 HI 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
individually by telephone with current Board members Charles Clark and Karl Haglund; and 
with former Board members Joseph DeStefano, Raffi Manjikian, and Barbara Fiacco.5 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum. Beginning on April 6, the Board held a series of hearings on a 
design and site plan review application submitted by the Belmont Day School seeking 
approval to construct a new building and an additional driveway on its property. The hearing 
began on April 6 and continued to the following dates: May 2; May 23; June 6; July 10; July 
20; August 1; August 14; and August 31. In between the hearing dates, the acting Board 
Chair, Barbara Fiacco,6 worked with Board staff and the applicant to solve certain issues 
regarding the applicant's proposal that arose during the meetings. Ms. Fiacco also facilitated 
meetings she called "working group" meetings with one other Board member on a rotating 
basis who had particular expertise on the subject of that meeting, as well as planning 
department staff and the applicant's representatives. Generally, when an issue arose during a 
Board meeting, Ms. Fiacco would recommend that a particular Board member meet with the 
applicant on that issue. Ms. Fiacco also attended all of the working group meetings about this 
application, with the exception of one. 
For example, following a question that arose during the May 2 hearing regarding fire 
code requirements, Ms. Fiacco, Board member Joseph DeStefano and Office of Community 
Development ("OCD") staff met with the fire chief on May 12. Sometime after the May 2 
meeting, Ms. Fiacco contacted DeStefano, who had expertise on this issue, and invited him to 
attend. Ms. Fiacco and Mr. DeStefano then sent a memorandum to the Board, dated May 21, 
outlining the outcome of this meeting. This memorandum was included in the packet of 
materials for the Board's review at its May 23 meeting. Ms. Fiacco reported on the outcome 
of this meeting to the Board at its May 23 meeting, referring to it as a meeting of the 
"working group." Also during the May 23 meeting, issues arose around storm water 
management. The applicant's representative noted that it had already met with OCD and 
suggested that a "work group" be scheduled in order for the applicant to provide the 
information that the Board sought. Accordingly, Ms. Fiacco and Mr. DeStefano met with 
OCD and the applicant's representatives on June 2 to discuss storm water management. 
During its July 10 meeting, Ms. Fiacco suggested that Board staff meet with the 
applicant to discuss the construction management plan. Flaving expertise on this topic, Board 
member Raffi Manjikian volunteered to participate in this discussion, which occurred on July 
19.7 Also during this meeting, following a discussion about the landscape plan, the applicant 
5 Despite our repeated requests, we were unable to schedule those calls until several months after our initial 
request to the Board. The Open Meeting Law requires that, "[u]pon notification of an investigation, any person, 
public body or any other... official or entity who is the subject of an investigation, shall make all information 
necessary to conduct such investigation available to the attorney general." G.L. c. 30A, § 24(a). We caution the 
Board that we may find a violation of the Open Meeting Law for a future failure to respond to our request for 
information promptly in the course of an investigation. 
6 Former Board Chair Elisabeth Allison recused herself from this hearing. 
7 This was the only working group meeting in which Ms. Fiacco did not participate, although she had initially 
volunteered to participate. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
suggested that a working group meet with the applicant to discuss the plan in more detail. 
Ms. Fiacco agreed and suggested that Board member Karl Haglund attend this discussion. On 
July 17, Ms. Fiacco and Mr. Haglund attended a meeting regarding the landscape plan. At its 
July 20 meeting, Ms. Fiacco reported on the "landscape plan working group progress." Mr. 
Manjikian also reported on "the construction management plan working group progress." 
Several days later, on July 24, Ms. Fiacco and Mr. Haglund responded to an email from Mr. 
Wheeler, who had requested their comments on a summary of the landscape plan "Working 
Group" meeting. That same day, Ms. Fiacco also participated in a conference call with Board 
staff to discuss the landscape plan. 
Then, on August 31, the Board approved the site plan. Leading up to this meeting, 
Ms. Fiacco and Mr. Wheeler worked with the applicant to write a draft decision. The other 
Board members did not see this draft decision until it was provided to them in its packet of 
documents distributed to them on or about August 29 in preparation for the meeting. 
Moments before the meeting began, Ms. Fiacco discussed the application, in particular the 
Dover Amendment aspect, with Mr. Manjikian and possibly Mr. Haglund. Aside from 
scheduling matters relayed to the Board by Mr. Wheeler, a quorum of the Board did not 
otherwise communicate with each other about the application or draft decision outside of a 
meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to a public body, which is defined, in relevant 
part, as "a multiple member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the 
executive or legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however 
created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]" 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "subcommittee" is defined as a multiple-member body created to advise 
or make recommendations to a public body. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
The complainant alleges that the Board created "working groups" that did not comply 
with the Open Meeting Law. We acknowledge that this is a close question and we appreciate 
the complainant's position that Board business was conducted behind closed doors by a few 
select individuals, including the applicant's representatives. However, we find that the 
working groups were not formally created by the Board to act collectively and therefore did 
not constitute public bodies subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2015-83; OML 
2015-46; OML 2013-56; OML 2012-20. To determine whether a multiple-member entity is a 
public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, there are three factors we consider: 
1. The entity must be "within" government and not excluded from the definition of 
"public body"; 
2. The entity must be a "body," empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a "public purpose." 
See OML 2010-1.8 
8 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www. mass. go/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Here, a Board member either volunteered or was asked by Ms. Fiacco to participate, 
either during a meeting or outside a meeting, in a particular meeting with planning department 
staff and the applicant's representatives. Ms. Fiacco participated in all of those meetings with 
the exception of one. While Board members may have implicitly understood that Ms. Fiacco 
would attend the meetings along with another Board member, that process was never 
described publicly. Consequently, we conclude that the Board never formally delegated more 
than one Board member to take any collective action. See OML 2017-111. And each 
working group focused on a different topic, diminishing any concern that the Board was 
discussing and/or making decisions on one topic via a rotating quorum at different meetings. 
See McCrea v. Flaherty. 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637, 648-49 (2008) (holding a public body may 
not engage in a serial deliberation, whereby a quorum communicates in a non-
contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a matter within the public body's 
jurisdiction). Moreover, the working group meetings consisted of planning department staff 
and the applicant's representatives with no fixed membership requiring a quorum to act. 
Because the working groups do not satisfy the second factor in the above analysis, we find 
that they are not subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2017-145; 2015-83; OML 
2012-65. Nevertheless, we discourage the Board from using such an arrangement in the 
future, unless the Board clearly defines the membership of the group and its task. See OML 
2016-79 (in which we concluded that a fixed group tasked with reviewing documents and 
making recommendations is a public body). 
Lhe complainant further alleges that, between August 11 and August 31, the Board 
deliberated privately with the applicant about the Belmont Day School application. The Open 
Meeting Law governs only communications between or among a quorum of the Board. G.L. 
c. 3 OA, § 18 (deliberation is defined as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include 
the distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that 
may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed"). Based 
on our review, we find no evidence that a quorum of the Board deliberated, either directly or 
through a third party, about the school and/or its application outside of a meeting between 
August 11 and August 31. 
Flowever, leading up to the August 31 meeting, Ms. Fiacco worked with Mr. Wheeler 
and the applicant to create a draft decision. Individual Board members may communicate 
with third parties, such as staff or residents, provided those third parties do not facilitate 
communication among a quorum of the Board. See OML 2016-48; OML 2013-186. Neither 
Ms. Fiacco, Mr. Wheeler, nor the applicant sought the other Board members' revisions 
outside of a meeting, or otherwise facilitated communication among the Board. However, 
because Ms. Fiacco participated in the revision of the draft decision, it contained her opinion. 
As such, the distribution of the draft decision to the Board in advance of the meeting was 
improper. See Boelter v. Wayland Board of Selectmen, SJC-12353, slip op. at 15-16 (Mass. 
April 5, 2018), citing Revere v. Massachusetts Gaming Comm'n. 476 Mass. 591, 610 (2017) 
("the Legislature specified that no opinion of a board member could be expressed in any 
documents circulated to a quorum prior to an open meeting"). Accordingly, we find that Ms. 
Fiacco individually violated the Open Meeting Law by sending the draft, via Mr. Wheeler, to 
4 
===PAGE 5===
the Board outside of a meeting. Likewise, we note that, while not within the scope of the 
complaint, a May 21 memorandum from Ms. Fiacco and Mr. DeStefano to the Board 
regarding their "working group" meeting with the Belmont Fire Department should not have 
been sent to the Board outside of a meeting, even as a document to be discussed during the 
meeting. See Boelter. SJC-12353, slip op. at 18 (in which the court held that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by circulating "individual and composite evaluations [that] 
expressed the opinions of the board members to a quorum in advance of the public meeting"). 
We acknowledge that the Board did not have the benefit of the Boelter decision at the time 
and take this opportunity to remind the Board and other public bodies about this recent 
decision. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that Barbara Fiacco violated the Open Meeting 
Law by sending a document expressing her opinion to a quorum of the Board via a third 
party. We order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, 
and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate 
the law. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Timothy Duncan 
Belmont Planning Board 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
5 