===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.govlago 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
July 25, 2011 
OML 2011 - 30 
James Lampke 
115 North Street 
Hingham, MA 02043 
Dear Attorney Lampke, 
Our office has reviewed a complaint filed by Michael Schneider, dated November 
24, 2010, alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by the 
Wareham Fire District Prudential Committee (the "Committee"). The complaint 
specifically alleges that "[o]n August 5, 2010, the Wareham [Fire] District Prudential 
Committee entered in executive session under purpose 3" and that the Committee "did 
not enter into executive session for a permissible purpose." The complaint was originally 
filed with the Committee on August 11, 2010. The Committee responded by letter on 
September 10, 2010. 
We reviewed the August 11, 2010 and November 24, 2010 complaints, and the 
Committee's September 10, 2010 response. We also reviewed the meeting notice and the 
open and executive session minutes for the August 5, 2010 Committee meeting. 
Additionally, we reviewed a February 10, 2011 letter from the Committee's counsel in 
response to a January 18, 2011 interrogatory from this office. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law during its August 5, 2010 meeting by discussing topics during that executive session 
that, while appropriate under other statutory purposes for executive session, were not 
proper under the purpose actually cited by the Committee. 
FACTS 
Because we reviewed executive session minutes that remain confidential, and 
because our interrogatories sought information that has not yet been released to the 
public, we are unable to provide a full recitation of the facts. The publicly available facts 
are as follows. The Committee met on August 5, 2010, and considered ten topics. Topic 
1 
===PAGE 2===
number nine was listed on the meeting notice as "Executive Session to discuss strategy 
with respect [sic] investigation of possible litigation." The minutes of the open session 
reflect the following: 
Voted: To enter into executive session, not to return to open. Purpose to discuss 
strategy re: possible litigation. Members polled individually, each said yes. 
[Michael] Schneider indicated he felt we were in violation of the Open Meeting 
law in citing reason. We utilize directions supplied to town by Kopelman and 
[Paige] . 
According to the executive session minutes, the Committee entered executive 
session at 7:52 p.m. and adjourned at 8:23 p.m. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted 
in an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20-21. Public bodies may 
enter a closed, executive session for one of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting 
Law. Id. One purpose for executive session is, "[t]o discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." Id. at 
§ 21(a)(3). 
Here, the Committee listed in its notice for its August 5, 2010 meeting an 
executive session to "discuss strategy with respect [to] investigation of possible 
litigation." During the actual meeting, according to the minutes, the Committee entered 
executive session "to discuss strategy re: possible litigation." This appears to be a 
reference to executive session Purpose Three, "to discuss strategy with respect 
to...litigation." 
The complainant asserts that Purpose Three was not appropriate for the discussion 
that took place during the August 5, 2010 executive session because, among other things, 
the Committee announced an intention to discuss only an investigation and "possible" 
litigation. See Complaint at 2. The complainant is correct that proposed litigation is not 
an appropriate topic of discussion under Purpose Three unless that litigation is clearly or 
imminently threatened. See Perryman v. School Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. 
Ct. 346, 352 (1983). Here, the executive session minutes and response of the Committee 
make clear that at least a portion of the executive session discussion focused on whether 
the Committee should initiate legal action against a particular individual. Thus, legal 
action was sufficiently "imminent" to make the discussion appropriate'under executive 
session purpose three. 
We note, however, that in reciting Purpose Three, the Chair failed to declare that 
an open meeting would have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the public 
body, as required by the Open Meeting Law. Id. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). This is 
2 
===PAGE 3===
not a mere technical violation. The requirement is meant to engender confidence that the 
secrecy inherent in executive session is truly necessary. It must, therefore, be followed. 
But that is not the end of the matter. The Committee's executive session was not 
limited to the decision whether to initiate legal action. Rather, the Committee's 
discussion covered a range of other topics — all related to the individual being 
investigated—that did not fall within Purpose Three. The Committee could have 
discussed these matters in executive session under several other executive session 
purposes. For example, if a public body seeks to discuss the discipline of an individual, 
the body may enter executive session under Purpose One. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(1).("to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought 
against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual"). However, in invoking 
Purpose One, the public body must also comply with the notice and other requirements 
that are particular to that purpose. A public body may also enter into executive session 
under Purpose Five if it seeks to conduct a criminal investigation or seeks to file criminal 
charges Id. at § 21(a)(5) ("No investigate charges of criminal misconduct or to consider 
the filing of criminal complaints"). Finally, if a public body seeks to discuss a report or 
other document considered confidential by law, the public body may enter executive 
session under Purpose Seven Id. at § 21(a)(7) ("[t]o comply with, or act under the 
authority of, any general or special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements"). 
While all these purposes are proper, a public body may not enter into executive 
session without making clear which one it is invoking. The stated purpose is the public's 
only way of knowing what is being discussed in executive session, at least until the 
executive session minutes are published. And it is the only means the public has to judge 
the propriety of the executive session. Once again, failing to cite to the proper executive 
session purpose is not a mere technical violation of the law. It is simply a violation, and 
it occurred here. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee discussed topics during the August 5, 2010 executive 
session that, while appropriate under other portions of the law, were not proper under the 
purpose actually cited for the executive session. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and remind the Committee of its responsibility 
to follow the required procedures for entering executive session. We caution the 
Committee that a determination by our office of similar violations in the future may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. In addition, we expect 
that as soon as the legal purpose for the August 5, 2010 executive session has expired, the 
Committee will promptly release to the public the executive session minutes and any 
other documents used by the public body that are not exempt under the Public Records 
Law or any other general law. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
We now consider this complaint resolved and this matter closed. Please contact 
me if you have any questions or believe any of the facts presented to be inaccurate. 
Jo  o  •than Sclarsic r  'ssistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Michael Schneider 
cc: Wareham Fire District Prudential Committee 
4 