===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
August 2, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 109 
 
 
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street, 12th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By e-mail only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Corbo:                                                                                                                                                                          
 
This office received a complaint from William Creighton on September 20, 2020, and a 
second complaint on October 27, 2020, alleging that the Abington Conservation Commission 
(the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The first 
complaint was originally filed with the Commission on August 10, the second complaint was 
originally filed with the Commission on September 24, and you responded, on behalf of the 
Commission, to both complaints by separate letters dated September 3 and October 14 
respectively.  The first complaint alleges that the Commission deliberated outside of a properly 
posted meeting when it discussed a property on Hjelm Street in the Town of Abington.  The 
second complaint alleges that the Commission discussed a topic during a meeting held on 
September 22 that was not listed on the notice for the meeting. 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters.  Following 
our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the ways 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Commission’s 
responses to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review.  
We also reviewed the notices and minutes of Commission meetings held on February 24, August 
26, September 22, and October 5.  In addition, we spoke with Michael Noonan, Chair of the 
Commission, by telephone on July 27, 2021.   
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  The Commission is a seven-member public body; thus four 
members constitute a quorum.  Michael Noonan is Chair of the Commission. 
 
During a February 24 meeting, the Commission discussed a request from Mr. Noonan to 
remove trees from his property on Hjelm Street.  The complainant is an abutter to this property.  
Mr. Noonan recused himself as a member of the Commission and appeared before the 
Commission as the Hjelm Street property owner.  Mr. Noonan stated that the trees are outside of 
the wetlands buffer zone and therefore he did not specifically need to request a certificate of 
compliance but “wanted to keep everything above board.”  The Commission approved by 
majority vote a “motion for negative determination.”  
 
On August 3, the complainant sent a letter to the Commission “requesting a Cease and 
Desist order” claiming that Mr. Noonan was dumping a large amount of dirt on his property at 
Hjelm Street, including wetland areas, which is not allowed unless he files a Notice of Intent 
with the Commission.  By letter dated August 4, Russell Forsythe, Vice Chair of the 
Commission, responded to the complainant explaining that he had spoken with Mr. Noonan who 
stated that “the Planning Board has given permission for him to fill in the rest of the designated 
area.”  Mr. Forsythe concluded the letter by stating that “a cease and desist because you 
requested one will not happen.” 
 
On September 10, the Department of Environmental Protection (the “Department”) sent 
an email to Mr. Noonan advising him that an inspection of his property on Hjelm Street would 
take place on September 22 at 10:00 A.M.  A site visit was conducted by the Department on 
September 22 and two members of the Commission, Vice Chair Forsythe and Karen Bowen, 
attended that visit, as well as Mr. Noonan as the property owner. 
 
On September 18 at 11:21 A.M., the Commission posted notice of a meeting to be held 
on September 22 at 7:00 P.M.  The notice listed five main topics, including Old and New 
Business, Building Permits/Site Visits, Correspondence and Minutes.  Two of the topics, New 
Business and Minutes, included more specific topics under these main headings.  No additional 
topics were listed under any of the other three main topics, including Building Permits/Site 
Visits.    
  
The September 22 meeting was held as planned.  During the meeting, Vice Chair 
Forsythe advised that the Department had conducted a site visit at Mr. Noonan’s Hjelm Street 
property.  Mr. Noonan recused himself as a member of the Commission and explained that he 
could not conduct any additional work at the property until a botanist reviews the wetlands area.   
 
On October 1 at 11:29 A.M., the Commission posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
October 5 at 7:00 P.M.  The notice listed two topics - Open Meeting Law complaint filed by 
Willian Creighton on September 24 and Site Visit at 22 Hjelm Street on September 22.  
   
The October 5 meeting was held as planned.  The Commission discussed the Open 
Meeting Law complaint filed by the complainant on September 24 and voted to authorize Town 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Counsel to respond on behalf of the Commission.  The Commission then again discussed the site 
visit that the Department had conducted at Mr. Noonan’s Hjelm Street property on September 
22.  Mr. Noonan reiterated that he could not conduct any additional work at the property until a 
botanist reviews the wetlands area. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened.  G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c 30A, § 18.  The law 
defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction.”  Id.  For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of 
the members of a public body.  Id. 
 
The first complaint alleges that the Commission deliberated outside of a properly posted 
meeting to discuss the complainant’s August 3 letter requesting a cease-and-desist order at Mr. 
Noonan’s Hjelm Street property.  Although Vice Chair Forsythe admits that he spoke with Mr. 
Noonan about the Hjelm Street property prior to responding to the complainant’s letter, Vice 
Chair Forsythe specifically states that he did not speak to any other Commission member about 
this matter outside of an open meeting.  Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit the 
Commission’s account of the facts.  See OML 2014-122.2  Nevertheless, the communication here 
was between Vice Chair Forsythe and Mr. Noonan, as owner of the Hjelm Street property.  Even 
if we view the communication between Mr. Forsythe and Mr. Noonan to have occurred between 
two Commission members, rather than between one Commission member and an individual 
property owner, we find that such communication did not constitute deliberation because the 
communication was between two members of the Commission, which is not a quorum.  See 
OML 2018-132; OML 2017-199; OML 2017-69.  As such, we find that the Commission did not 
deliberate outside of a properly posted meeting, and therefore did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
 
The second complaint alleges that the Commission discussed a topic that was not listed 
on the notice for the Commission’s September 22 meeting.  Except in an emergency, a public 
body must post notice of every meeting “at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays,” and must include a “listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Public bodies are 
required to list topics in a meeting notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(1)(b).  Here, the notice of the 
Commission’s September 22 meeting included only a general heading for Building Permits/Site 
Visits.  During the September 22 meeting, the Commission discussed a site visit that had 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
occurred that day at Mr. Noonan’s Hjelm Street property, which two Commission members 
attended.  Mr. Noonan states that he did not anticipate discussing the site visit during the 
Commission’s September 22 meeting.  In fact, Vice Chair Forsythe raised the topic when he 
advised the Commission that he had attended a site visit at the Hjelm Street property that 
morning.  A public body may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not 
anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting.  See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87.   
We find here that the chair did not reasonably anticipate that the Commission would discuss the 
Hjelm Street property site visit during the September 22 meeting, and therefore he was not 
required to list it in the meeting notice.  See OML 2015-195; OML 2015-4.  As such, we do not 
find a violation of the Open Meeting Law when another Commission member raised the topic 
during the September 22 meeting despite the Hjelm Street property site visit not being 
specifically listed on the notice.   
 
Even though we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law, we 
applaud the Commission’s efforts to take corrective action in response to the second complaint 
by substantively discussed the site visit again during its October 5 meeting.  See Pearson v. 
Board of Selectmen of Longmeadow, 49 Mass. App. Ct. 119, 125 (2000), citing Tolar v. School 
Board of Liberty County, 398 So.2d 427, 429 (Fla. 1981) (In order to cure a violation, the public 
body must take an independent, deliberative action, and not merely engage in a ceremonial 
acceptance or perfunctory ratification of a secret decision). 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Commission or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: William Creighton – By email only:  
Abington Conservation Commission, c/o Administrator Nancy Hurst – By email only: 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
