===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 19, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 161 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Mark Cerel, Esq. 
Franklin Town Attorney 
mcerel@franklinma.gov 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Cerel: 
 
This office received a complaint from Paul Harrington
1 on December 16, 2021,2 alleging 
that the Franklin Conservation Commission (the “Commission”), and specifically its then-chair 
William Batchelor,3 violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Commission on November 1, and you responded on behalf of the 
Commission by letter dated November 9. The complaint alleges that the Chair deliberated via 
email on two occasions.   
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a) and find that Mr. Batchelor improperly deliberated via email on October 7 
and 27. In reaching this determination we reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaint, 
which included the substance of the subject emails; the Commission’s response; and the request 
for further review.  
 
On October 7, Mr. Batchelor sent an email to the full Commission relaying his 
suggestions for the procedure the Commission and its members should follow when a member 
has a conflict of interest related to a matter before the Commission. On October 27, Mr. 
Batchelor sent another email to a quorum of the Commission responding to a statement from Mr. 
Harrington that he would recuse himself from a matter. Mr. Batchelor’s email read as follows: 
“Interests may only be discussed as they concern your specific property. You may not discuss 
any conservation issues. That’s the conflict with State ethics and/or municipal restrictions. If you 
 
1 At the time of the events relevant to this complaint, Mr. Harrington was a member of the Commission. 
2 All dates are in 2021, unless otherwise noted. 
3 Mr. Batchelor still serves on the Commission but is not currently serving as chair. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
do I will ask the audio feed be cut. Thanks Bill.” Later, in response to Mr. Harrington informing 
Mr. Batchelor that he believed the earlier email violated the Open Meeting Law, Mr. Batchelor 
wrote “I am reiterating procedural process which is not subject to any violation. Paul, you need 
to start to respect the duties of the Chair. If not, I will ask for your dismissal from the 
Commission.”  
 
Through the Commission’s response to the Open Meeting Law complaint, Mr. Batchelor 
acknowledged that he sent the emails included in the complaint but denied that they constituted 
improper deliberation because they “described procedures to be followed by an individual 
member with a conflict of interest . . . .” Although Mr. Batchelor denied any violation of the 
Open Meeting Law, he did commit to avoiding such communications with a quorum of the 
Commission in the future.  
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). To that end, the Law requires that meetings of a public 
body be noticed and that they be open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a 
public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The 
Law defines “deliberation” broadly as “an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business 
within its jurisdiction.” Id. The definition of “deliberation” includes an exception for “the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.” Id. For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, 
a quorum is “a simple majority of the members of the public body.” Id. A one-way 
communication from one public body member to a quorum on business within a body’s 
jurisdiction is deliberation, even if no other members respond. See OML 2020-136.4  
 
We have found that discussion of a public body’s operation is a matter within the body’s 
jurisdiction and that such discussions must therefore take place during an open meeting that has 
been properly noticed. See OML 2021-130 (finding that memoranda circulated to a quorum of a 
board constituted improper deliberation where the memoranda concerned, among other things, 
the chair’s proposed communication policy); OML 2022-129 (finding that emails sent to a 
quorum of a committee that expressed its chair’s opinions on the committee’s operation, 
including meeting and voting procedures, constituted improper deliberation). Here, we find that 
Mr. Batchelor’s emails sent on October 7 and 27 to a quorum of the Commission concerned the 
Commission’s operation including how it would handle conflicts of interest and Mr. Batchelor’s 
plan to request dismissal of Mr. Harrington if he did not follow the proposed procedures. This 
was public business within the Commission’s jurisdiction and therefore the October 7 and 27 
emails discussing such business violated the Open Meeting Law.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that Mr. Batchelor violated the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged. We order the Commission’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Law, and caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate 
the Law. Additionally, we order the Commission to release to the public the October 7 and 27 
emails, either by reading them aloud at an open meeting, or by attaching the emails to the 
minutes of an open meeting. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: P atrick Gallagher, Chair, Franklin Conservation Commission c/o Bryan Taberner, 
Director of Planning and Community Development (via e-mail: 
btaberner@franklinma.gov) 
 
William Batchelor, Member, Franklin Conservation Commission (via e-mail: 
) 
 
Paul Harrington (via email: )  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
