===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 17,2014 
OML 2014 - 25 
Richard A. Gelerman, Esq. 
Gelerman and Cabral, LLC 
30 Walpole St. 
Norwood, MA 02062 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Gelerman: 
This office received a complaint from Heather Harding (the complainant), dated February 
20, 2014, alleging that the Foxborough Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint alleges that the Board deliberated on a 
matter of public business via email on October 25, 2013. The complaint was originally filed 
with the Board on January 15, 2014. You responded to the complaint by letter dated January 27, 
2014.1 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the January 15, 2014 complaint filed with the 
Board; the Board's January 27, 2014 response; and the February 20, 2014 complaint filed with 
our office. Additionally, we reviewed an email sent by Selectwoman Lorraine Brue on October 
25, 2013. Following our review, we have decided to resolve this complaint by informal action, 
in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a). We find that the email at issue here contained 
language that reasonably could have been interpreted as an expression of opinion from one 
member of the Board to a quorum in violation of the Law. The Board, however, took 
appropriate remedial action in response to the complaint. 
At issue in this complaint is the content of the email sent by Selectwoman Brue on 
October 25, 2013. Following a meeting with special counsel regarding licensing issues for a 
local establishment, Brue sent an email to all members of the Board as well as other interested 
parties with the subject heading, "Notes from special counsel information for discussion at 
Tuesday's meeting - No response please For Selectmen Information ONLY." The body of the 
1 For the purpose of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 2===
email discussed two points, entitled "Alteration of Premises" and "Transfer of Licenses," and 
listed the "pros" and "cons" of each. 
The complaint alleges that the "pros" and "cons" listed amount to expressions of opinion 
b)' one member of the Board (Selectwoman Brae) to a quorum of the Board, and constitute 
impermissible deliberation outside of a properly posted meeting. Counsel responded on behalf 
of the Board and, while denying the email constituted deliberation, acknowledged that parts ofk 
the email could be interpreted as an impermissible expression of opinion. In response, the Board 
fully disclosed the existence of the email and attached it as part of the record on the application 
before the Board to which the subject manner applies. Additionally, the Board publicly read the 
email into the record as well during an open session on February 4, 2014. 
We agree with Counsel's assessment of the email. "[E]mail communication between a 
quorum of public members—however innocent—easily may create the appearance of secret 
deliberation." OML 2014-2.2 Here, a reasonable interpretation of the email could lead to the 
conclusion that the opinions expressed therein were those of Selectwoman Brae. Going forward, 
we continue to recommend that, should members of public bodies wish to communicate via 
email, they restrict their communications to distributing meeting agendas, scheduling meetings, 
and distributing documents to be discussed at meetings in an effort to avoid even the appearance 
of impropriety. 
While we find that Selectwoman Brae's email violated the Open Meeting Law, the Board 
took appropriate remedial action in response to the complaint. We therefore order no additional 
relief. 
We now consider this matter closed. This determination does not address any other 
complaints that may be pending before this office or the Board. Please feel free to contact this 
office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Mark M. Higgins 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Foxborough Board of Selectmen 
Heather Harding 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 