===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 12,2017 
OML 2017-58 
Katherine Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
This office received two complaints from Stephen Morgan on January 25, 2017 
alleging that the Ashland Board of Health (the "Board of Health") and the Ashland Board of 
Selectmen (the "Board of Selectmen") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L, c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaints were originally filed with the Board on or about December 1 and 
December 18, 2016 respectively, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated 
February 14, 2017. In both complaints, Mr. Morgan alleges that a quorum of the boards each 
deliberated outside of a meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We reviewed 
the notice and minutes of the Board of Selectmen's November 16, 2016 meeting. We also 
reviewed a video-recording of the Board of Health's December 6, 2016 meeting.1 Finally, we 
spoke with Board of Health Chair Jon Fetherston by telephone on March 22, 2017. 
We find the facts as follows. Both the Board of Health and the Board of Selectmen 
are five-member public bodies, thus three members constitute a quorum. The Board of 
Selectmen held a meeting at Town Hall on the evening of November 16, 2016. During the 
citizen's participation portion of the meeting, Board of Health member K.G. Narayana 
presented a report that he had submitted to the Board of Selectmen concerning the Board of 
Health. The Board of Selectmen did not discuss the report. Chair Fetherston was also at 
1 Available at https://www.youtube,com/watch?v=7cqRhffFUsc. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
Town Hall for a meeting of another public body that evening. As he was leaving the building 
to go home, a reporter approached him in the parking lot and asked what he thought about Mr. 
Narayana's report to the Board of Selectmen. Chair Fetherston responded that he was 
unaware of the report. Just then, Yolanda Greaves, a member of the Board of Selectmen, 
joined the conversation. Ms. Greaves informed Mr. Fetherston about Mr. Narayana's 
presentation to the Board of Selectmen. The reporter walked away and then Ms. Greaves 
walked to her car. Two other members of the Board of Selectmen, Robert Scherer and Steven 
Mitchell, then walked out of the building together and approached Chair Fetherston. A 
discussion ensued about the report during which Mr. Scherer and Mr. Mitchell shared their 
opinions about the report to Chair Fetherston. The next morning, a reporter called Chair 
Fetherston about the report. 
In a newspaper article published a week later, on November 22, 2016, Chair 
Fetherston is quoted as stating, "I've spoken with other members, and the board does not 
agree with this stunt." During a December 6, 2016 Board of Health meeting, Chair Fetherston 
clarified that the "other members" he spoke with were members of the Board of Selectmen, 
not the Board of Health. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School 
Commission of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive 
session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include 
the distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that 
may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id For 
the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority of the member of the 
public body. Id. 
The complainant alleges that a quorum of the Board of Health and the Board of 
Selectmen each deliberated outside of a meeting about Mr. Narayana's report to the Board of 
Selectmen. As evidence, the complainant points to Chair Fetherston's statement that he had 
spoken with "other members," as quoted in a local newspaper article. The complainant filed 
the complaint with the Board of Health on December 1, 2016. In the Board of Health's 
December 6, 2016 meeting. Chair Fetherston clarified that he was referring to the Board of 
Selectmen, not the Board of Health, when he made the statement to the reporter that he had 
spoken with "other members." Based on this clarification, the complainant filed a complaint 
with the Board of Selectmen as well. Although we agree with the complainant that Chair 
Fetherston's statement reasonably implied that he'd had a discussion with other members of 
the board on which he serves (ie., the Board of Health), we find that neither Board deliberated 
2 
===PAGE 3===
outside of a meeting regarding Mr, Narayana's report. Rather, Chair Fetherston had two 
separate conversations with less than a quorum of the Board of Selectmen and did not 
otherwise share the content of those conversations with other members of that Board. See 
OML 2016-55, citing McCrea v. Flaherty. 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that private 
serial communications may not be used to circumvent the intent of the Open Meeting Law).2 
Accordingly, we find that neither Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board of Selectmen and the Board of 
Health did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by 
this determination to be resolved. Lhis determination does not address any other complaints 
that may be pending with our office or the Boards. Please feel free to contact our office at 
(617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Stephen Morgan 
Ashland Board of Selectmen 
Ashland Board of Health 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 