===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 3, 2015 
OML 2015 - 166 
Duane Pease 
Administrative Assistant 
Board of Selectmen 
Town of Middlefield 
PO Box 238 
Middlefield, MA 01243 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Pease: 
This office received a complaint from Janine Savoy on July 10, 2015, alleging that 
the Middlefield Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 6, 
2015, and you responded,1 on behalf of the Board, by letter dated June 2, 2015. In her 
complaint, Ms. Savoy alleges that the Board failed to properly respond to her request for 
executive session minutes and failed to conduct a periodic review of its executive session 
minutes "at reasonable intervals." 
We decline to review the complainant's first allegation because we find it untimely, 
as discussed below. Following our review of the second allegation, we find that the Board 
conducted periodic reviews of its executive session minutes in accordance with the Open 
Meeting Law. In reaching our determination, we reviewed the initial complaint, the 
Board's response, and the complaint filed with our office, requesting further review. In 
addition, we reviewed Ms. Savoy's request, the Board's response, as well as the minutes 
from the Board meetings held in October and November 2014 and in April, May and June 
2015. Finally, we spoke with Board Administrative Assistant Duane Pease on July 30, 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
' For the purpose of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
We remind the Board that, while a public body may authorize an individual such as the Town 
Administrator or Town Counsel to respond on the public body's behalf, the Open Meeting Law and the 
Attorney General's regulations require that the entire Board first review the Open Meeting Law complaint. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). Based upon a review of the relevant meeting minutes, it does 
not appear the Board discussed this complaint prior to its response. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
2015 and August 12, 2015, as well as with Chair Alan Vint and Board counsel Jonathan 
Silverstein on October 15, 2015. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On January 30, 2015, Ms. Savoy submitted a letter to 
the Board, requesting certain executive session minutes and materials from meetings held 
in 2011, 2012 and 2013. On February 17, 2015, the Board's Administrative Assistant 
responded to the request by letter, noting that the requested minutes concern the "alleged 
Harry Pease Way," which was the subject of litigation in which Ms. Savoy and the Town 
were named among the defendants. In his letter, the Board's Administrative Assistant 
stated, "[b]e advised we sent this request to our Town counsel for review and advice, Town 
Counsel had advised we deny your request for this information." All of the executive 
sessions minutes that the Board continues to withhold from public disclosure concern the 
same litigation matter. As of the date of this decision, the litigation at issue remains 
pending; however the Town was dismissed as a party in 2013. Although no longer a party 
to the case, the Board's position is that release of these executive sessions minutes during 
the pendency of the case could result in it being pulled back into the case as a third-party 
defendant. 
Per the Board's usual protocol, the Board's Administrative Assistant and counsel 
conducted a periodic review of the Board's executive session minutes in or around 
November 2014. The Board's Administrative Assistant recalls announcing the results of 
this review during a Board meeting around that time, although the meeting minutes from 
that time period do not reflect that discussion.3 Subsequently, upon receiving Ms. Savoy's 
request, the Board's Administrative Assistant consulted with counsel, who determined that 
the status of the litigation had not changed since its last periodic review and therefore the 
minutes would remain withheld from disclosure. This determination was not included in 
any meeting minutes from the relevant timeframe. Upon the filing of this complaint, the 
Board's Administrative Assistant and counsel conducted another periodic review of all 
unreleased minutes, which they reported to the Board during its June 1, 2015 meeting. 
Again, a discussion of this review was not recorded in the meeting minutes. 
DISCUSSION 
The minutes of an executive session, the notes, recordings or other material used in 
the preparation of such minutes and all documents and exhibits used at the session, may be 
3 We take this opportunity to remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies 
"create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, 
time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). An audio or video recording of the meeting does not 
constitute minutes, for puiposes of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-4. Accordingly, while we credit 
the Board Administrative Assistant's recollection that he discussed these periodic reviews with the Board 
during its meetings, these discussions should have been included in the minutes. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety, as long as publication may defeat 
the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer. G.L. c. 3 OA, § 22(f). A public 
body, or its chair or designee, must, at reasonable intervals, review the minutes of 
executive sessions to determine if continued nondisclosure of those minutes is warranted. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). When the purpose for which an executive session was held has 
been served, the minutes must be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or one or 
more of the exemptions under the Public Records Law apply to withhold the minutes, or 
any portion thereof, from disclosure. Id. The burden of justifying continued nondisclosure 
of executive session minutes lies with the public body. Foudv v. Amherst-Pelham 
Regional School Committee. 402 Mass. 179, 184 (1988); OML 2014-138. 
First, we find Ms. Savoy's allegation concerning the Board's response to a request 
for executive session minutes untimely. Complaints alleging violations of the Open 
Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the alleged violation. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). A public body must respond to a request for executive session 
minutes within ten days. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). Accordingly, an allegation of this 
nature must be filed within thirty days after a public body fails to properly respond within 
10 days of the request. See id. Here, therefore, a complaint alleging a failure to properly 
respond to Ms. Savoy's January 30, 2015 request should have been filed with the Board no 
later than March 11, 2015. Because the complaint was filed with the Board on April 6, 
2015 - almost a month later- we find this allegation untimely and decline to review it.4 
Second, Ms. Savoy alleges that the Board failed to conduct a periodic review of its 
executive session minutes "at reasonable intervals." The executive sessions at issue were 
held pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3), and concerned a litigation matter. Just two 
months before Ms. Savoy's request, in November 2014, the Board conducted a periodic 
review of its executive session minutes. The Board's Administrative Assistant consulted 
counsel about the minutes that Ms. Savoy sought, since they were withheld following that 
earlier review, and counsel advised that nothing had changed since the last periodic review 
and thus the minutes should remain withheld from disclosure. This consultation sufficed 
as a fresh review of the executive session minutes, as is required when a public body 
receives a request for executive session minutes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). The Board 
then conducted another periodic review in May 2015. We find this to be a reasonable 
period of time between periodic reviews and therefore find no violation of the Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending 
4 We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that a public body respond within 10 days to a 
request for executive session minutes. See G.L, c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). Additionally, following a review of 
executive session minutes, a public body shall announce its determination at its next meeting and such 
announcement shall be included in the minutes. See G.L. c. BOA, §§ 22(g)(1) & (2). 
3 
===PAGE 4===
with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Janine Savoy 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c), A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 