===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 7, 2017 
OML 2017-91 
Richard Nazzaro, Chair 
Middleton Zoning Board of Appeals 
195 North Main Street 
Middleton, MA 01949 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Nazzaro: 
This office received a complaint from Teresa Buono on January 12, 2017, 
alleging that the Middleton Zoning Board of Appeals (the "Board") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Board 
on December 12, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated December 
19. The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board improperly deliberated while on 
recess during a November 17 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in 
the manner alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, 
the Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the notice of and open session minutes from the 
Board's November 17 meeting, as well as a video-recording of that meeting, which the 
complainant provided to our office. Finally, we spoke by telephone with Town Planner 
Katrina O'Leary on April 10, 2017; Chair Richard Nazzaro on April 11, 2017; and Board 
member Barbara Piselli on April 28, 2017 and May 5, 2017.2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body with two 
alternates. The Board held a meeting on November 17. The first order of business that 
evening was reorganization of the Board. Richard Nazzaro was elected chair; Board 
member Barbara Piselli had been the previous chair. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNRY GENERAL 
Cs 
===PAGE 2===
The Board then held four hearings: a site plan modification at 195 South Main 
Street, a common driveway special permit at 17 Old Essex Street, an appeal of a decision 
by the Building Inspector that a dwelling unit above the garage needed to be removed at 1 
School Street, and a variance at 9 Pine Avenue. 
During the Board's discussion of the special permit at 17 Old Essex Street, Ms. 
Piselli can be seen on the video speaking to Mr. Nazzaro in a hushed voice. However, 
although speaking softly, it is clear from the video that Ms. Piselli was simply reminding 
Mr. Nazzaro to clarify who the voting members would be for this hearing. Mr. Nazzaro 
then immediately clarified on the record who the voting members were for this matter. 
The Board then discussed the 1 School Street appeal. Once again, Ms. Piselli can 
be seen on the video speaking to Mr. Nazzaro in a hushed voice. However, it is clear 
from the video that Ms. Piselli was simply reminding Mr. Nazzaro to clarify who the 
voting members would be for this hearing. Mr. Nazzaro then immediately clarified on 
the record who the voting members were - himself. Board members James Fox, Anne 
Cote, and Nicholas Yebba, as well as alternate member Anne LeBlanc-Snyder. 
During the Board's discussion, Ms. Piselli whispered to Mr. Nazzaro several 
times in order to provide procedural advice, including when the applicant should address 
the Board and the order in which the Board should discuss and/or decide each matter 
before it. The first matter before the Board was a letter of late submission from the 
attorney representing the owners of 1 School Street; this late submission requested a 
continuance of the hearing. Member Anne Cote asked whether the Board should read the 
letter of late submission into the record. Mr. Nazzaro looked to Ms. Piselli for 
clarification and asked her whether the Board could call for a vote to accept the late 
submission. Ms. Piselli told Mr. Nazzaro to take a recess. He then called a ten-minute 
recess. 
During the recess. Town Planner Katrina O'Leary, Board member Nicolas Yebba 
and Ms. Piselli met with Mr. Nazzaro. Ms. Piselli explained to Mr. Nazzaro the 
procedural steps in which the Board should address the matter; that is, the Board must 
decide whether to allow or deny the request for continuance, if the Board denies the 
continuance, then it would discuss whether or not to uphold the decision of the Building 
Commissioner. Mr. Yebba provided similar guidance. 
After returning from the recess, Ms. Cote read the letter of late submission into 
the record; the letter requested that the Board continue the hearing either to the Board's 
December meeting or six months later to May 2017. Mr. Nazzaro requested a motion by 
the Board to accept the late submission, and the Board approved a unanimous vote to 
accept the late submission. Mr. Nazzaro then asked the petitioner to "summarize the 
situation." Ms. Piselli interrupted and whispered to Mr. Nazzaro that the Board first had 
to vote on whether to allow the continuance before hearing from the petitioner. Mr. 
Nazzaro then asked for a motion to allow the continuance. After some discussion, Ms. 
Piselli addressed the Board on the procedural issues before it. She explained that the first 
issue was whether the Board would allow the request to continue the hearing, if the Board 
2 
===PAGE 3===
allowed the continuance, it could then choose a date at which to continue the hearing; if 
the Board denied the continuance, then it would proceed to the merits of the hearing, 
which was an appeal of the Building Inspector's decision that an apartment unit above the 
garage must be removed. 
The Board voted to not continue the hearing. Building Inspector Scott Fitzpatrick 
stated that the house at 1 School Street was a single family dwelling with an illegal 
apartment above the garage. Mr. Nazzaro explained that the issue before the Board was 
whether to accept the decision by the Building Inspector that the garage unit should be 
removed. The Board then heard from the petitioner, after which the Board voted to 
uphold the decision by the Building Inspector that the unit above the garage needed to be 
removed. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy 
surrounding deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. 
School Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that 
meetings of a public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless 
an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A "meeting" is 
defined, in relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter 
within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an 
oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between 
or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; 
provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of a meeting 
agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the 
distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no 
opinion of a member is expressed." Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a 
"quorum" is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id 
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board deliberated while on recess 
during the November 17 meeting. The Board argues that there was no deliberation 
because the discussion during the ten-minute recess related only to procedure and a 
quorum was not present because Ms. Piselli was not a voting member for purposes of the 
1 School Street hearing. 
Here, the Board is a five-member public body with two alternates. Ms. Piselli is a 
voting member of the five-member Board, not a non-voting alternate member. See OML 
2013-32 (concluding that a non-voting alternate member was not subject to the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law). As a full voting member of the Board, Ms. 
Piselli remains a part of the quorum, even though she did not vote or participate in the 
School Street hearing portion of the meeting because she had missed more than one 
meeting that involved this matter. See G.L. c. 39, § 23D (when participating in an 
adjudicatory hearing, a municipal board member shall not be disqualified from voting in 
a matter solely due to that member's absence from no more than a single session of the 
hearing at which testimony or other evidence is received). While Ms. Piselli could not 
3 
===PAGE 4===
vote on this matter because of her absence from more than one meeting, a quorum of the 
Board remains a simple majority of its members, of which she was still a member. See 
G.L. c. 3OA, § 18. 
Discussions regarding procedural or administrative matters may relate to public 
business within a body's jurisdiction, including whether the body should consider or take 
action on specific topics during a meeting. See OML 2013-27; OML 2011-38. The 
Open Meeting Law does not carve out an exception to the definition of "deliberation" for 
procedural discussions among public body members about how its meetings should be 
run. See OML 2015-3; OML 2014-108 (concluding that a discussion concerning the 
leadership of a public body to be a matter of public business that should be reserved for 
an open meeting). Discussion of a public body's operation is public business within the 
body's jurisdiction. The discussions here during the recess concerned the order in which 
the Board should decide the issues before it and therefore should have occurred during an 
open session. See OML 2016-63. 
We find that a quorum of the Board discussed a matter within the Board's 
jurisdiction outside of a meeting and therefore violated the Open Meeting Law. We do 
not find an intentional violation where Ms. Piselli and Mr. Yebba were simply trying to 
support and guide Mr. Nazzaro, as the newly appointed chair, through the steps that the 
Board must consider in order to reach a decision. We have been assured that there was 
no discussion regarding the merits of reaching a specific resolution. Moreover, we find 
that any harm to the public was minimal where the discussion that took place during the 
recess was later repeated during the open portion of the meeting when Ms. Piselli 
addressed the Board on the procedural matters before it. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by deliberating privately outside of the public's view. We order immediate and 
future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar future 
violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
4 
===PAGE 5===
cc: Teresa Buono 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt 
of a final order. 
5 