===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
November 7, 2025 
 
OML 2025 – 177 
 
  
BY EMAIL ONLY 
 
Mark Ullucci 
Somerset Town Administrator  
mullucci@town.somerset.ma.us 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Ullucci: 
 
This office received two complaints from Patrick Higgins on October 21, 2025, alleging 
that the Somerset Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1  Both complaints were originally filed with the Board on or around September 21, and 
you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated October 9.  The first 
complaint alleges that the Board’s chair failed to announce that the meeting held on September 
10 was being recorded.  The second complaint alleges that the Board’s chair failed to announce 
that the meeting held on September 17 was being recorded and that the Board failed to vote by 
roll call the second time that it entered executive session during the September 17 meeting. 
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaints, the Board’s response to the complaints, the 
complainant’s request for further review of the complaints, and the notice, minutes and video 
recording of the Board meeting held on June 27.
2  The Board acknowledges, and we find, that 
the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged.     
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “[a]fter notifying the chair of the public body, any 
person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a public body, or 
may transmit the meeting through any medium, subject to reasonable requirements of the chair 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2025. 
2 A video recording of the Board’s June 27 meeting is available at 
https://www.facebook.com/swanseacommunitynetwork/videos/1419421548855930.  
 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
as to the number, placement and operation of equipment used so as not to interfere with the 
conduct of the meeting.  At the beginning of the meeting, the chair shall inform other attendees 
of any recordings.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f).  The requirement that the chair inform attendees of any 
recording includes any recording made by members of the public body itself, including those 
made for public broadcasting or administrative purposes, such as assisting in the drafting of 
meeting minutes.  See OML 2019-129; OML 2016-155; OML 2013-136.
3  The Board 
acknowledges that the September 10 and 17 meetings were recorded and that the Chair neglected 
to make the required announcement; therefore, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.  
 
Next, the Open Meeting Law permits a public body to convene in executive session for 
certain prescribed purposes provided that it has first convened in open session; that the chair has 
stated the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called; and that a majority of the 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session and the vote of each member is 
recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b); OML 2014-94.  The 
Board acknowledges that it did not vote by roll call when it convened in executive session for a 
second time during its September 17 meeting. 
 
In response to the complaints, the Board committed to take action to ensure future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  Specifically, the Board represented that it will now 
include a reminder to the chair on each meeting notice to announce that the meeting is being 
recorded.  In addition, the Board’s chair now utilizes this office’s Public Body Checklist for 
Entering Executive Session
4 to ensure future compliance with the procedural requirements for 
entering executive session.  We commend the Board for implementing these measures and 
acknowledge the complainant’s role in bringing the issues to the Board’s attention.  Nonetheless, 
we advise the complainant that filing Open Meeting Law complaints for further review by this 
office after a public body has acknowledged its violations and pledged to take steps so that they 
won’t be repeated takes up scarce state and local resources without advancing the Open Meeting 
Law’s goal of improved governmental transparency. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to announce that the meetings held on September 10 and 17 were being recorded and by 
failing to vote by roll call before entering executive session on September 17.  We order the 
Board’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that 
similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
  
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 The checklist is available at https://www.mass.gov/info-details/open-meeting-law-educational-materials. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (by email: ) 
Paula Ramos, Assistant to the Town Administrator (by email: 
pramos@town.somerset.ma.us) 
Somerset Town Clerk (by email: chadala@town.somerset.ma.us) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
