===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www. mass .gov/ago 
October 16, 2017 
OML 2017-161 
Carolyn M. Murray, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Murray: 
This office received a complaint from Tom Robinson, dated October 3, alleging that the 
Hubbardston Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 5, and the Board responded 
by letter dated July 20.2 In his complaint, Mr. Robinson alleges that the Board failed to indicate 
on a meeting notice that it would convene in open session before entering executive session.3 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
and we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. The complaint concerns 
the Board's July 5 meeting. The meeting notice stated that the Board would enter executive 
session pursuant to G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(a)(2), but it did not state that the Board would first convene 
in open session. When the only business to be discussed during an open session is the procedural 
requirements for entering executive session, public bodies must like "open session" or some 
other appropriate placeholder on the meetings in order to inform members of the public that the 
body will, in fact, hold an open meeting that they are permitted to attend. See OML 2017-80.4 
Without such notice, members of the public are essentially denied the opportunity to attend and 
learn the purpose for the executive session. See OML 2013-195. Here, because the July 5 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 We note that the original complaint filed with the Board does not contain the complainant's signature. We remind 
the complainant that Open Meeting Law complaint forms must be signed. 
3 The request for further review contains allegations that were not part of the original complaint—specifically, that 
the Board failed to make meeting minutes available. Because these allegations were not part of the original 
complaint, we do not review them now. See OML 2017-134, Fn, 3. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
meeting notice listed solely the executive session, we find that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution 
that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. We now 
consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does 
not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel 
free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Tom Robinson 
Hubbardston Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
2 