===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
May 13, 2013 
OML 2013 - 62 
Lauren F. Goldberg 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint — Nantucket Energy Study Committee 
Dear Attorney Goldberg: 
This office received a complaint filed by Mary Wawro on May 21, 2012, alleging that the 
Nantucket Energy Study Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint specifically alleges that the Committee engaged in 
"impermissible private 'deliberations' regarding the Wind Turbine at the Madaket Landfill, a 
matter under their jurisdiction," and that the Committee Chair "established a 'closed group' 
Facebook page named 'Renewable Nantucket-Cut the cord to the Mainland' to facilitate these 
deliberations. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about March 13, 
2012, and the Committee responded to the complaint by letter through its Counsel, dated April 6, 
2012. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
because a quorum of the Committee did not deliberate via the Facebook Group. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the March 13, 2012 complaint filed with the Committee; the 
Committee's April 6, 2012 response to the complaint; and the May 21, 2012 complaint filed with 
our office. Additionally, we reviewed screenshots of the webpage hosted by 
www.Facebook.com  titled "Renewable Nantucket — Cut the Cord to the Mainland" ("Facebook 
Group"), provided by both the complainant and the Committee. We also reviewed screenshots 
of the www.Yackon.com  discussion page regarding the Final Risk Assessment on the Madaket 
Turbine, provided to our office by the complainant. Finally, we reviewed the minutes of the 
Committee's April 2, 2012 meeting. 
1 
0 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
The Nantucket Energy Study Committee is a nine-member public body charged with 
reporting to the Board of Selectmen on energy-related issues that may affect Nantucket's 
residential, commercial and municipal electric users. The Committee also recommends policy or 
code amendments, evaluates and explores potential energy production for Nantucket, and serves 
as a resource for information on renewable and sustainable energy technologies, energy 
conservation and any energy related issues relevant to Nantucket. The Committee Chair is Anne 
Kuszpa. 
Ms. Kuszpa is also a strong proponent of the wind turbine project proposed for the 
Madaket Landfill. Ms. Kuszpa, acting in her private capacity and not as a member of the 
Committee, formed a members-only group on the website www.Facebook.com  for the stated 
purposes of organizing the proponents of the wind turbine project to promote passage of an 
article at the March 31, 2012 Annual Town Meeting. The Facebook Group is not open to the 
public, and its members are invited to participate by Ms. Kuszpa. On the Facebook Group 
webpage, members discuss their support for the wind turbine project. The Facebook Group grew 
to include members of the Nantucket community and, for some period of time, included four 
members of the Committee. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)—(b), 21. A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is 
defined, in relevant part, as "any oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id. Finally, a "quorum" is defined as "a simple majority of the members of the 
public body, unless otherwise provided in a general or special law, executive order or other 
authorizing provision." Id. 
Here, four members of the nine-member Committee participated in communications via 
the closed Facebook Group. We find no evidence that a fifth member of the Committee was ever 
a member of the Facebook Group or communicated via the Facebook Group. Because a quorum 
of the Committee is five members, and at most four members participated in the Facebook 
Group, no deliberation occurred. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. As we find that there were no 
communications between and among a quorum of the Committee via the Facebook Group, we 
need not address the Committee's argument in its April 6, 2012 letter that the members' 
communications via the Facebook Group consisted of political speech, and therefore were not 
matters within the Committee's jurisdiction. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this 
letter, please do not hesitate to contact our office at (617) 963-2540. 
Sincere 
'Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Mary Wawro 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3 