===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 18, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 249 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Karen L. Nober, Esq. 
Town Attorney  
Town of Barnstable 
367 Main Street 
Hyannis, MA 02601-3907 
 
karen.nober@town.barnstable.ma.us 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Nober: 
 
This office received one complaint from Sandra Jones on behalf of Barnstable Speaks on 
September 18, 2024, and four complaints from Maria Gerdy and Greg Gerdy on September 19, 
2024,
1 alleging that the Barnstable Town Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  Sandra Jones originally filed her complaint with the Council on 
July 2, and you responded on behalf of the Council by letter dated July 23.  Maria Gerdy and 
Greg Gerdy originally filed two of their complaints with the Council on July 22, and the other 
two complaints on July 25 and July 27.  You responded to these complaints on behalf of the 
Council by letter dated August 20, in conformance with an extension to respond granted by our 
office.  The complaints allege that the Council met in executive session on April 4, June 6, and 
June 13, without a valid purpose to do so and that notice of the executive sessions did not satisfy 
the Open Meeting Law.
2       
 
  
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The complaints filed on July 25 and July 27 list the date of alleged violation as June 27.  However, the descriptions 
of the alleged violations reference the executive sessions held on April 4, June 6, and June 13, not any action on 
June 27.  As explained below, it was on June 27 that town counsel and outside counsel provided information at an 
open meeting of the Council regarding the executive sessions held on those three dates. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the 
Council’s responses, and the requests for further review.   We also reviewed the notices and 
redacted executive session minutes of the Council’s meetings of April 4, June 6, and June 13, as 
well as minutes of the Council’s meetings of October 5, 2023, and June 27, 2024.3  We read the 
statement of Councilor John Crow, dated November 21.  Finally, we viewed a portion of a 
recording of the Council’s June 27 meeting.4   
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  In 2022, t
 he Town of Barnstable entered a Host Community 
Agreement (“HCA”) with Park City Wind (“PCW”) regarding development of an offshore 
renewable wind project (“the Project”).  The next year, PCW announced that due to changed 
market conditions, it was withdrawing from a power purchase agreement with Connecticut utility 
companies.  In response to this announcement, the Council on October 5, 2023, approved a delay 
in granting easements that PCW required for the Project.  Around this time, some residents and 
businesses also voiced concerns about the Project.  In November 2023, the Town retained the 
law firm of Anderson Krieger to assist the Town with legal issues stemming from the Project.  
PCW demanded that the Town grant the easements.  On February 9, 2024, PCW advised that if 
the disagreement were not resolved, it would initiate the dispute resolution procedure under the 
HCA, a precondition for filing litigation.   
 
 The Council met in executive session during meetings that it held on April 4, June 6, and 
June 13.  Included on the notice for each of these meetings was the following topic: 
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION 
The Town Council will enter executive session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, sec. 21(a)(3) to 
discuss strategy with respect to litigation since a discussion in open session may have a 
detrimental effect on the litigating position of the Town and Town Council. Specifically, 
the Council will discuss litigation strategy with respect to Park City Wind LLC’s 
proposed offshore renewable wind project in the Town.
5 
 
 During the executive sessions on April 4 and June 13, counsel from Anderson Krieger 
explained to the Council its legal options, including litigation, relative to the dispute with PCW 
regarding the Project.  Town counsel also attended these meetings.  The Council took votes at the 
June 4 and June 13 meetings relative to the PCW project.  At the April 4 meeting, the Council 
voted to authorize negotiations with PCW to obtain additional benefits and protections for the 
Town.  On June 6, the Council met in executive session to discuss with counsel actions taken in 
 
3 The redacted executive session minutes have been released to the public. 
4We accessed a recording of the meeting at 
https://streaming85.townofbarnstable.us/CablecastPublicSite/show/11183?seekto=265&site=1.   
5The listing of the executive sessions differed only in that notice of the April 4 meeting did not indicate whether the 
Council would return to open session following the executive session; notice of the June 6 meeting stated that the 
Council would return to open session; and notice of the June 13 meeting stated that the Council would not return to 
open session. 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
furtherance of the April 4 vote.  At the executive session held on June 13, counsel presented the 
essential terms of a tentative side agreement with PCW to the Council.  By vote on June 13, the 
Council directed the Town Manager to finalize the side agreement, which the Council has 
described as a settlement agreement with PCW to resolve threatened litigation.  The side 
agreement was finalized and executed on June 25.  During the Council’s open meeting of June 
27, Attorney Colin Van Dyke of Anderson Krieger outlined the terms of the side agreement, 
including re-affirmation of the CHA, additional financial compensation and guarantees provided 
to the Town and further details regarding the easements, as well as additional terms on issues 
that had been raised as concerns by residents. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Counc il permissibly convened in executive session to discuss its legal options 
relative to the Project. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secr
 ecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when meeting in executive session, “all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A public body may enter an 
executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21.  One such purpose is “[t]o discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or 
litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) 
(“Purpose 3”). 
 
 Discussions of litigation strategy, including discussions of settlement, are permitted in 
executive session under Purpose 3.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3); OML 2023-191; OML 2021-
27.6  Additionally, although the mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 
3, Purpose 3 may be used to discuss strategy with respect to litigation that is clearly and 
imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely.  See Doherty v. School Committee of 
Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Perryman v. School Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. 
Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2024-3; OML 2020-76; OML 2012-5.  Based upon the totality of 
circumstances present here, we find that the Council properly met in executive session under 
Purpose 3 to discuss litigation that it reasonably believed was imminently threatened or 
demonstrably likely.  See OML 2024-3.  PCW had demanded the easements and voiced its intent 
to invoke the dispute resolution procedure under the HCA, a precondition to initiating litigation.  
The Council had the option under the Open Meeting Law to discuss PCW’s actions in a closed 
session with its counsel.      
 
  
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
II. Notice of the executive sessions satisfied the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in the 
announce
ment during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); OML 2023-
207; OML 2019-85; see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 
Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“A precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is 
necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public 
that the [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would 
know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper.”).  When convening in executive session 
under Purpose 3 to discuss litigation strategy, both the meeting notice and the announcement 
before entering the executive session must identify the litigation matter to be discussed, if doing 
so will not compromise the executive session purpose.  See OML 2024-111; OML 2020-47; 
OML 2014-50.  Here, the notice did not reference a specific lawsuit because none had yet been 
filed.  However, the notice did reference both PCH and the Project.  Therefore, we find that 
notices of the executive sessions held on April 4, June 6, and June 13 were compliant with the 
Open Meeting Law. 
 
 We decline to review the remaining allegations of the complaints.  The Division of Open 
Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  To the extent the 
complainants challenge the redactions of executive session minutes,7 or allege that a councilor 
voted in executive session under duress, or that agreements were executed without proper 
authorization, these allegations fall outside the Open Meeting Law.   
 
   
7 Executive session minutes may be withheld from the public for “as long as publication may defeat the lawful 
purposes of the executive session, but no longer.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f).  Specifically, with respect to executive 
sessions held under Purpose 3, minutes may be withheld “until such time as a litigating, negotiating or bargaining 
position is no longer jeopardized by such disclosure.”  Id.  Although executive session minutes must be released 
once the executive session purpose has been served, such minutes may be redacted under a claim of attorney-client 
privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f).  We do not review a challenge to 
redactions made pursuant to the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law, as such 
redactions do not implicate the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2024-219.  Questions or concerns regarding 
redactions made pursuant to the attorney-client privilege or the Public Records Law should be directed to the 
Supervisor of Records within the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s office. See OML 2024-219; OML 2024-119. 
 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 it you have any
questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Matt gon
Matthew Lindberg
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC.
Sandra Jones (via email:
Maria Gerdy and Greg Gerdy (via email:
Barnstable Town Clerk: ann.quirk@town.barnstable.ma.us)
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.