===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
 
       October 6, 2026 
       
       OML 2026 – 127 
 
 
Janelle M. Austin, Esq.  
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By email only: jaustin@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Austin: 
 
This office received a complaint from Amy Sonia and a complaint from Nicholas Masse 
on March 11, 2026, alleging that the North Reading Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  Ms. Sonia’s complaint was originally filed with the 
Board on February 27, 2026, while Mr. Masse’s complaint was originally filed with the Board on 
February 28, 2026.  You responded to both complaints, on behalf of the Board, by separate 
letters dated March 10, 2026.  The complaints allege that the Board did not include sufficient 
specificity in the notice for a meeting held on February 26, 2026. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the 
Board’s responses to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further 
review.  In addition, we reviewed the notices and minutes of Board meetings held between May 
20, 2025, and February 26, 2026. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  During a meeting held on May 20, 2025, the Health 
Director advised the Board that legislation prohibiting the sale of tobacco products to individuals 
born on or after January 1, 2006 (“An Act to create a nicotine free generation”) had stalled.  The 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Board discussed whether to support a Town Meeting warrant article prohibiting the sale of 
tobacco products or whether the Board itself should implement regulations on the sale of nicotine 
products in Town. 
 
Over the next seven months, the Board included in its meeting notices a topic regarding a 
“Nicotine Free Generation.”  During the meetings,
1 the Board continued its discussions about 
whether to support a Town Meeting warrant article or implement regulations itself prohibiting 
the sale of nicotine.  The Board suggested researching whether other communities supported or 
adopted nicotine free generation regulations, working with the Community Impact Team
2 and 
holding public hearings or informational sessions to receive input from the community.  
Ultimately, three informational sessions were held to inform and hear from the public on 
regulations to support a Nicotine Free Generation.
3  During a meeting held on January 20, 2026, 
the Board agreed to review all the information received from the informational sessions. 
 
On February 5, 2026, the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on February 10, 
2026, at 7:00 P.M.  One topic listed on the notice was “Nicotine Free Generation (NFG) BOH 
Discussion Session(s).” 
 
The February 10, 2026, meeting was held as planned.  During the meeting, the Board 
acknowledged the support from the Community Impact Team and all the correspondence 
gathered during the three informational sessions.  The Board discussed other communities that 
adopted Nicotine Free Generation regulations and whether there would be loss of tax revenue if 
the Town pursued a Nicotine Free Generation initiative.  The Board then heard from members of 
the public.  Finally, the Board decided that members would draft “some conditions for approval 
of the [Nicotine Free Generation] initiative” to discuss at the next meeting.  
 
On February 24, 2026, the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on February 26, 
2026, at 7:00 P.M.  The notice listed the following topics: “Call to Order,” “Approval of Board 
of Health minutes,” and “Nicotine Free Generation (NFG) “Workshop” Note: no other agenda 
items and no public comment” (emphasis in original).  
 
The February 26, 2026, meeting was held as planned.  During the meeting, the Board 
continued its discussion of whether to implement Nicotine Free Generation regulations or 
support a Town Meeting warrant article.  Specifically, the Board discussed communities that 
have adopted regulations, those that have opposed such regulations, and those that have tabled or 
suspended discussions about Nicotine Free Generation regulations.  The Board then discussed 
whether to “accept” regulations for a Nicotine Free Generation, deny Nicotine Free Generation 
regulations, pass regulations with conditions, or revisit the issue in the future.  Board Chair Gary 
Hunt made a motion, which was seconded by Board Member Pam Vath, “to delay making a 
 
1 The Board posted notices of and held meetings on June 17, July 15, August 5, September 4, October 6, and 
December 11, 2025. 
2 The Community Impact Team is a partnership between the North Reading Police Department, Youth Services, 
Elder Services, School Department, Parks and Recreation, Fire Department, Board of Health, and the Select Board.  
The Community Impact Team works to identify factors that hurt the quality of life for all community members, from 
young children to senior citizens, and to implement solutions that solve the underlying problems. 
3 The three informational sessions were held on September 30 and October 23, 2025, at 7:00 P.M., and November 
20, 2025, at 10:00 A.M.   
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
decision on the Nicotine Free Generation initiative until July 1, 2027.”  The motion was 
approved by a majority vote.   
 
After the Board voted, a member of the public asked Chair Hunt if the Board would hear 
public comments.  Chair Hunt responded, “yes, we will take comments now . . . .”  The Board 
then heard from a few individuals.  After being advised that public comment was not listed on 
the notice, the Board ceased public participation and adjourned the meeting. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  
The notice must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, 
time and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed.  Id.  The list of topics shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally 
consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read 
the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-
35.4    
 
The complaints allege that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it took a vote 
on the Nicotine Free Generation regulations without the notice indicating that the Board would 
vote on that topic.  Here, the notice of the February 26, 2026, meeting included the topic 
“Nicotine Free Generation (NFG) Workshop.”  During the meeting, the Board continued its 
discussion of whether to implement Nicotine Free Generation regulations or support a Town 
Meeting warrant article.  Ultimately, the Board voted to delay making a decision on Nicotine 
Free Generation regulations until July 2027. 
 
The Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to anticipate the course of 
deliberation or the outcome of a discussion, only that it identify the discussion topic with 
sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  
See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38.  
We have previously said that it is reasonably foreseeable that a public body may take action and 
hold a vote following discussion of a topic listed on a meeting notice, even where the notice 
topic does not specifically indicate the possibility of a vote.  See OML 2015-66; OML 2012-75.  
However, we have also explained that there may be a context in which a public body has 
repeatedly discussed a posted topic over the course of several meetings without ever taking 
action on the topic.  In such circumstances, the public may not reasonably foresee a vote by the 
public body on the posted topic at any given meeting without additional detail.  In that context, it 
may be necessary for a public body to specifically indicate on its notice that it plans to take 
action and vote on a particular topic.  See OML 2017-186. 
 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law.  
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Here, the Board had been discussing “Nicotine Free Generation” since May 2025.  For 
almost every month between May 2025 and February 2026, the Board posted notices that 
included a topic related to “Nicotine Free Generation.”  Prior to the February 26, 2026, meeting, 
the Board had not made any decisions or taken any votes regarding regulations to prohibit the 
sale of nicotine.  While we acknowledge that the Board took a vote during the February 26, 
2026, meeting, the vote was “to delay making a decision.”  Therefore, because the Board 
essentially did not take any specific action to implement or decline to implement regulations 
prohibiting the sale of nicotine, we find, in this instance, that the notice was sufficiently specific 
and the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  But cf. OML 2026-34 (finding that public 
body should have indicated on its notice that it planned to vote for a school redistricting scenario 
where it anticipated voting for a redistricting scenario and had discussed scenarios over 
numerous meetings without ever taking action); OML 2019-111 (finding that public body should 
have indicated on its notice that it planned to vote to enter a contract with one of two internet 
providers where it had discussed the topic over numerous meetings and had not previously made 
any decisions or taken any votes regarding the selection of a high speed internet provider).   
 
The complaints also allege that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by allowing 
public comment where the notice indicated that there would be “no public comment.”  The Open 
Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow public participation but rather gives the 
chair of the public body discretion to decide whether to permit public comment during a meeting.  
See G.L. c. 30A § 20(g) (“[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body without 
permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.”); see also 
OML 2026-97; OML 2020-77; OML 2017-189.  If public participation will be permitted, the 
chair may determine the method for receiving public comment, who may speak or otherwise 
participate during a meeting, and may set limitations on participation.
5  See OML 2020-114; 
OML 2017-189.  A public body does not violate the Open Meeting Law by allowing public 
comment on an item that was included on a meeting notice.  See OML 2011-6.  While the Open 
Meeting Law requires that the Chair list on the meeting notice all topics anticipated for 
discussion 48 hours before the meeting, there is no requirement that the Chair include a specific 
notice for public comment on those topics.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); see also OML 2024-198 
(“Public comment is not itself a topic for the public body's discussion that needs to be listed on 
the meeting notice.”); OML 2020-167; OML 2016-113; OML 2014-31.  We therefore find that 
the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when the Chair allowed members of the public 
to participate even though the notice indicated that there would be no public comment.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
 
5 We note that the Supreme Judicial Court recently explained that content-based restrictions on public comment may 
violate the portion of the Massachusetts Declaration of Rights protecting the right to assemble and the right to free 
speech.  See Barron v. Kolenda, 491 Mass. 408 (2023).  The Division of Open Government’s review concerns 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law; we do not review allegations concerning restrictions on public comment. 
 
===PAGE 5===
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Keny lume Kilague
KerryAnne Kilcoyne
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Amy Sonia - By email only:
Nicholas Masse - By email onlys
North Reading Board of Health c/o Chair Gary Hunt - By email only:
ghunt@trccompanies.com
North Reading Town Clerk Susan Duplin - By email only: sduplin@northreadingma.gov
This determination was issued pursuant to G.u. C. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.