===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 20, 2013 
OML 2013-187 
James Comwell 
Chairman 
Orange Cemetery Commission 
6 Prospect St. 
Orange, MA 01364 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Comwell, 
This office received two complaints from Mr. David Shepardson, dated July 25, 2013, 
alleging that the Orange Cemetery Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaints allege that the Commission failed to 
notice a May 14, 2013 public hearing and that the Commission members deliberated as the 
Veterans Memorial Committee (the "Committee") without posting notice for a meeting. The 
complaints were filed with the Commission on or about June 11, 2013 and June 12, 2013, 
respectively. The Commission responded to both complaints by letter dated July 18, 2013. 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to specify in its meeting notice that it would conduct a public hearing. However, we do 
not find this to be an intentional violation. Furthermore, we find that there was no improper 
meeting of the Commission on the date alleged. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the June 11, 2013 and June 12, 2013 
complaints; the Commission's July 18, 2013 response; and the July 25, 2013 complaint filed 
with our office. Additionally, we reviewed a June 20, 2013 letter from the Commission to Mr. 
Shepardson, and a letter from Commission Chair James Comwell1 to our office, dated September 
3, 2013. We reviewed the notice and minutes of the Commission's May 14, 2013 meeting, and 
the notice for the Commission's June 20, 2013 meeting. Finally, we reviewed a video recording 
of the May 14, 2013 meeting, provided to our office by the complainant. 
1 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Commission posted notice for a May 14, 2013 
meeting, listing one topic for discussion: "Rules and Regulations." After the Commission 
opened its May 14, 2013 meeting, Michael Shepardson, an attendee at the meeting, objected to 
the discussion because the notice did not specify that there would be a public hearing component 
of the discussion. The Chair read aloud the hearing notice that had been published in a local 
newspaper. The minutes states that a "short discussion followed, and trying to avoid a lengthy 
discussion that may not have been productive, Mr. Willard moved to adjourn the Cemetery 
Commission meeting." The meeting was then adjourned seven minutes after it had started. 
Following the adjournment, the Commission conducted the public hearing and accepted 
public comment. The Commission members listened to testimony, and discussed and responded 
to suggestions made by members of the public. 
In Chair Comwell's September 3, 2013 letter to our office, he explains that the meeting 
was scheduled to discuss "Orange Cemetery Rules and regulations changes, and the Orange 
Trustees of the Soldier's Memorial [CJommittee was not involved." The Committee did not hold 
any meeting of its own on that date. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body may only deliberate during a properly noticed meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
A "deliberation" is defined, in relevant part, as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction." Id. The Open Meeting Law requires that the chair list in the 
meeting notice all topics the chair reasonably anticipates for discussion 48 hours before the 
meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Here, the Commission's notice listed the topic for discussion at its May 14, 2013 meeting 
as "Rules & Regulations." The Commission did, in fact, convene to consider the Cemetery 
Rules and Regulations, as well as to conduct a public hearing that had been noticed in a 
newspaper.1 The Commission's meeting notice was sufficiently specific to inform the public 
that it would be discussing Cemetery rules and regulations, but it was not sufficient to inform the 
public that there would be a hearing on that topic. This is significant because a public hearing 
offers members of the public certain rights that they may not otherwise be afforded during a 
meeting of a public body. The Commission should, therefore, have specified in its notice that a 
1 This determination concerns only the Board's compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
Open Meeting Law does not govern a public body's requirements for holding a public hearing; therefore we do not 
review, and offer no opinion on, whether there was any violation of any public hearing law. See OML Declination 
11-12-13 (Ashfield Board of Health). Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's 
website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
hearing would occur. 
Furthermore, while the Commission adjourned its meeting, the Commission then held the 
public hearing and deliberated as it responded to comments made by members of the public. It is 
clear, therefore, that either the Commission did not really adjourn its meeting or the Commission 
in fact ended its meeting and deliberated outside of a meeting by discussing comments made by 
members of the public during the hearing. In either event, while we find that the meeting notice 
was not sufficiently specific, we note that there was a published hearing notice, and it appears to 
have been clear to everyone in the room that the Commission was continuing its business, so that 
no one left the room even after the meeting was "adjourned." We therefore find the violation 
was de minimis, but remind the Commission of the law's requirements. 
Finally, because the Veterans Memorial Committee did not meet on May 14, 2013, we 
find that it did not violate the law as alleged. To the extent that a quorum of the Veterans 
Memorial Committee was present during the Commission's May 14, 2013 meeting, no 
deliberation occurred that would necessitate a meeting of that Committee. 
We find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include 
specific information in its meeting notice, namely that it would hold a public hearing. We do not 
find this to be an intentional violation. We find that the Veterans Memorial Committee did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law because it did not deliberate during the Commission's May 14, 
2013 meeting, and did not hold a meeting of its own on that date. We order the Commission's 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution the Commission that 
a similar future violation may be considered evidence of an intentional violation of the Law. 
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this 
determination, please do not hesitate to contact our office at (617) 963-2540. 
cc: David Shepardson 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 