===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
August 3, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 122 
 
 
Thomas Millias 
Chair, Halifax Planning Board 
499 Plymouth Street 
Halifax, MA 02338 
 
By email only: Thomas.Millias@halifax-ma.org 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaints 
Dear Mr. Millias: 
 
This office received a complaint from Alan Dias on March 1, 2023, alleging that the 
Halifax Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about February 1.  The Board did not 
respond to the complaint.
2  The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by posting an insufficiently specific notice for and failing to conduct a roll call vote prior to 
convening in executive session during a meeting held on January 19.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the notice and minutes of the 
Board meeting held on January 19, as well as a video recording of that meeting.
3   
 
 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2023. 
2 We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, 
the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the 
complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of 
the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).    
3 A video recording of the Board’s January 19 meeting can be found at http://www halifax-
ma.org/home/events/50551. 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On January 17 at 2:49 PM, the Board posted notice of a 
meeting to be held on January 19 at 7:00 PM.  The notice listed five main topic headings, each of 
which included specific item descriptions that further advised the public of the topics to be 
discussed.  One main heading was “Possible Executive Session” followed by additional detail: 
“Possible Executive Session for 314 Plymouth Street in Halifax Petition 983 Notice of Action 
appealing the decision of the Planning Board of the Town of Halifax, which was recorded in 
your offices on December 19, 2022.  A Copy of the complaint was filed at Plymouth Superior 
Court (Docket No. 2383CV00012).  A copy is at the town clerks [sic] office as of January 5, 
2023.  As discussing strategy with respect to litigation in an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the litigating position of the Town.” 
 
The January 19 meeting was held as planned.  At the beginning of the meeting, Board 
member Amy Troup, who was acting as Vice Chair, announced that the meeting was being 
recorded and then read the entire notice into the record, including the “possible executive 
session” for 314 Plymouth Street. 
 
After discussing the noticed open session topics, Ms. Troup asked for a motion to 
convene in executive session.  Member Gaynor made a motion to convene in executive session 
but did not read the language from the notice or otherwise state a purpose for the executive 
session.  The Board did state that it would not return to open session and unanimously voted by 
roll call to convene in executive session.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.  
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for 
any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened 
in an open session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive 
session, that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and 
the chair has publicly announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of 
the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.
4  One such purpose is 
Purpose 3, which allows a public body to convene in executive session to “discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.”  G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a)(3). 
 
Exec
utive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
purpose for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see als o 
District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] 
precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is 
the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and 
the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”). 
 
The complaint alleges that the Board posted an
  insufficiently specific notice with respect 
to the executive session topic for the meeting held on January 19 and did not state why the 
executive session was required.  Here, the notice listed a “Possible Executive Session” regarding 
an appeal of a decision made by the Board with respect to 314 Plymouth Street.  Although the 
notice did not describe the specific decision that the Board planned to discuss in executive 
session, the notice identified the address that was the subject of the decision, described the 
discussion as involving litigation strategy, and listed the docket number of the litigation matter.  
A public body need not list each and every detail about a topic in order to comply with the law’s 
requirements.  See OML 2018-7.  In addition, a public body is not required to publicly establish 
that holding a meeting in open session would have a detrimental effect on its litigating position; 
rather, the chair is merely required to make the statement that meeting in open session may have 
a detrimental effect on the public body’s litigating position.  See OML 2012-118; G.L. c. 30A,   
§ 21(a)(3).  We find that the notice included sufficient information from which the public could 
conclude that the topic was appropriate for executive session and sufficiently advised the public 
of the anticipated discussion.  As such, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
 
The c
omplaint further alleges that the Board did not conduct a roll call vote prior to 
convening in executive session.  After reviewing a video recording of the January 19 meeting, 
we find that the Board conducted a roll call vote prior to convening in executive session.  
Therefore, we do not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Although not specifically raised in the complaint, we note that Board did not announce 
the pur
pose for the executive session prior to convening in executive session.  After the Board 
discussed the open session topics, Ms. Troup asked for a motion to convene in executive session, 
Mr. Gaynor “so moved” and the Board unanimously voted by roll call to convene in executive 
session.  The chair of the public body must announce in open session the purpose for the 
executive session, “stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose 
for which the executive session was called.”  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b)(3).  While we 
acknowledge that Ms. Troup announced the purpose for the “possible” executive session at the 
beginning of the meeting, at that point she was simply reading the notice into the record.  Once 
the Board decided that it would actually convene in executive session, Ms. Troup should have 
then “stated the purpose for the executive session.”  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3).  We remind the 
Board of its obligations under the law. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
  
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Alan Dias – By email only:  
 Halifax Town Clerk – By email only: susan.lawless@halifax-ma.org 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
 
 
