===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass .go v/ago 
October 13, 2015 
OML 2015-152 
Ruth J. Weil, Esq. 
Barnstable Town Attorney 
367 Main Street 
Hyannis, MA 02601 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Weil: 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty, dated September 8, alleging that the 
Barnstable Comprehensive Financial Advisory Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee 
on July 28, and, after an extension of time was granted, the Committee responded by letter dated 
September 4. In his complaint, Mr. Beaty alleges that the Committee posted an insufficiently 
specific meeting notice. 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. The 
complaint first alleges that the use of the acronym "CFAC" is insufficiently specific. The agenda 
item where the acronym is used was not discussed during the meeting at issue.2 When a public 
body does not actually discuss the noticed topic, the Open Meeting Law is not violated with 
respect to the sufficiency of the meeting notice. See OML 2015-111; OML 2015-63.3 We note, 
however, that "CFAC" is an abbreviation of the Committee's full title. Since the Committee's 
full title was listed separately on the meeting notice, it is unlikely that any interested members of 
the public were confused by the use of this acronym. 
The complaint also alleges that the agenda topic "Review Financial Overview report by 
Subcommittee" is insufficiently specific. During the meeting at issue, the Committee received a 
report by the Financial Overview Subcommittee. We find that the topic listed on the meeting 
notice is an accurate description of the discussion that took place during the meeting at issue. 
We therefore find that the agenda item at issue satisfied the Open Meeting Law's requirements. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 The agenda item states, "CFAC to continue discussion on assigned project." 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
See OML 2014-136. While it was reasonably inferable here, to avoid any risk of confusion, we 
recommend as a best practice that the Committee explicitly state in its notice the name of any 
subcommittee making a report in the future. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ronald Beaty 
Barnstable Comprehensive Financial Advisory Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
2 