===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August i 8, 2016 
OML 2016-113 
Alec MacLeod, Chair 
Orange Conservation Commission 
Lown Hall 
6 Prospect Street 
Orange, MA 01364 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. McLeod: 
This office received a complaint from Daniel Sheehan on July 11 alleging that the Orange 
Conservation Commission (the "Commission") and the Orange Board of Selectmen (the 
"Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' Specifically, the complaint 
alleges that the Commission and the Board failed to include anticipated topics in their respective 
notices for a joint meeting held on April 28. The complaint was originally filed with the public 
bodies on May 4. The Commission responded by letter dated May 13. The Board did not 
respond to the complaint.2 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the two public bodies, the Commission's 
response, and the request for further review filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed the 
Commission's notice for the April 28 joint meeting, and the Board's notice for the April 28 joint 
meeting. Finally, we spoke with Mr. Sheehan by telephone on August 8. 
1 All dates refer to the year 2016. 
2 Although the Commission's May 4 letter addresses the allegations against both public bodies, we remind the Board 
that unless an extension of time has been granted, a public body must, within 14 business days of receipt of an Open 
Meeting Law complaint, review the complaint, send a copy of the complaint to the Attorney General's Office, and 
notify the Attorney General's Office of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
Cf 
===PAGE 2===
The Commission posted notice for its April 28 meeting with an agenda that included 
eight topics.3 The notice listed one topic as "Visitors."4 Under "New Business," the notice 
included the topic, "Joint Meeting with Board of Selectmen, Re: Complaint Received in regards 
to Action by the Commission during the period of March 28 - April 1, 2016 in relation to Tire 
Barn Realty Trust." The Board posted a separate notice for the joint meeting, which included 
only three topics and did not include the topic of "Visitors." The Board's notice listed a topic as 
"Joint meeting with Conservation Commission re: Complaint Received in regards to Action by 
the Commission during the period of March 28 - April 1, 2016 in relation to Tire Barn Realty 
The complaint alleges that the two public bodies revised their notices to remove the topic 
of "Visitors" to prevent any public comment at the joint meeting. Even if taken as true, this 
allegation would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law. A public body must 
include in a meeting notice a listing of all topics reasonably anticipated by the chair 48 hours 
prior to a meeting, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
While a public body may not add anticipated topics to a notice within 48 hours of a meeting, the 
law does not prohibit a public body from removing, postponing, or declining to discuss a topic 
listed on a meeting notice. See OML 2015-174; OML 2012-23.5 Additionally, whether a public 
body permits public comment is entirely at the discretion of the chair, and does not need to be 
separately listed in a meeting notice. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g); OML 2015-36; OML 2015-12; OML 
2012-23. Therefore, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law by either body. 
We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve 
any other complaints that may be pending with this office, the Commission, or with the Board. 
Please feel free to contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this 
letter. 
cc: Daniel Sheehan 
Orange Board of Selectmen 
3 We understand from the Commission's May 4 letter that the two public bodies posted their notices more than 48 
hours prior to the April 28 meeting, though the notices were not stamped with any posting times. We remind both 
the Commission and the Board that the Attorney General's regulations require that "the date and time that the notice 
is posted shall be conspicuously recorded thereon or therewith." 940 CMR 29.03(1 )(b). 
4 We note that topic of "Visitors" does not provide sufficient detail to properly inform the public as to the nature of 
the Commission's anticipated discussion. In its May 4 letter, the Commission explains that the topic refers to 
"persons who would like to discuss something unrelated to items specifically listed as agenda topics." In response 
to the complaint, the Commission has pledged to clarify this topic in future meeting notices. We agree that the 
Commission should clarify this topic in future meeting notices. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
Trust." 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
2 
===PAGE 3===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 