===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 25, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 117 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Joseph R. Posner, Esq. 
Assistant City Solicitor  
City of Cambridge 
jposner@Cambridgema.gov 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Posner: 
 
This office received a complaint from Charles Teague on August 27, 2025,
1 alleging that 
the Cambridge City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about June 25, and, after an 
extension of time granted by this office, you responded on behalf of the Council by letter dated 
August 4. We understand the complaint to allege that two members of the Council deliberated 
outside of a noticed meeting regarding an amendment to a policy order. 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Council’s response, the 
request for further review. We also reviewed the meeting notices and packets for the Council’s 
June 2 and June 9 meetings. Finally, we reviewed video recordings of the Council’s June 2 and 
June 9 meetings.
2 
 
 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A recording of the June 2 meeting was accessed at 
https://cambridgema.granicus.com/player/clip/1038?view_id=1&redirect=true. A video recording of the June 9 
meeting was accessed at https://cambridgema.granicus.com/player/clip/1039?view_id=1&redirect=true.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Council is a nine-member body; therefore, five 
members constitute a quorum. The complaint relates to a policy order regarding the Westley 
Avenue entrance to Linear Park in Cambridge. The Council posted notice for a meeting to be 
held on June 2 at 5:30 p.m. Included on the notice under the heading “Policy Order and 
Resolution List” was the topic “That the City Manager is requested to work with relevant City 
departments to ensure that there is full open access for all users to Linear Park from Westley 
Avenue as an additional community access point. Councillor Nolan, Councillor Sobrinho-
Wheeler, Councillor Azeem, Vice Mayor McGovern POR 2025 #82” (the “Westley Avenue 
Policy Order”). As noted in the notice topic, the Westley Avenue Policy Order was sponsored by 
Councilors Patricia Nolan, Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler, Burhan Azeem, and Marc McGovern. The 
Westley Avenue Policy Order was included in the packet for the June 2 meeting.  
 
During the June 2 meeting, Councilor Nolan introduced the Westley Avenue Policy 
Order, providing background and history regarding access to Linear Park at Westley Avenue and 
summarizing what the Westley Avenue Policy Order proposed to do. After Councilor Nolan 
finished speaking, Councilor Paul Toner exercised his charter right which ended discussion of 
the Westley Avenue Policy Order. The Council then turned to the next topic of discussion.  
 
The Council posted notice for a meeting to be held on June 9 at 5:30 p.m. The notice 
included under the heading “Charter Right” the following topic: “That the City Manager is 
requested to work with relevant City departments to ensure that there is full open access for all 
users to Linear Park from Westley Avenue as an additional community access point. CHARTER 
RIGHT EXERCISED BY COUNCILLOR TONER IN COUNCIL JUNE 2, 2025.”  
 
During the June 9 meeting, at 10:34 p.m., Councilor McGovern emailed a proposed 
amendment to the Westley Avenue Policy Order to six individuals, none of whom were 
Councilors.
3 That proposed amendment read as follows: 
 
That the City Manager direct the relative city departments, including the CDD and 
the Police Department, to work with the Westley Avenue community on ways to 
improve neighborhood safety, including, but not limited to, possibly adding 
improved lighting and a gate that can be locked by the city at night and unlocked 
in the morning.   
 
Discussion of the Westley Avenue Policy Order began at approximately 10:47 p.m. Four 
Councilors spoke on the matter, followed by Councilor McGovern who introduced his proposed 
amendment. Councilor McGovern read the proposed amendment aloud and the language was 
also displayed. After reading the proposed amendment, Councilor McGovern noted that one 
safety measure the City could consider would be using timed gates that lock and unlock at 
prescribed times. Councilor McGovern noted that he had spoken with Councilor Sumbul 
Siddiqui who had suggested timed gates. Mayor E. Denise Simmons, who served as Council 
 
3 The email circulating the proposed amendment was sent to individuals identified in the “to” line as Crane, Paula, 
Stephen, Naomie, Erwin, and Nicole. None of these names is associated with a Councilor.  
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
President at the time, asked for discussion on the amendment. Councilor Siddiqui spoke, 
explaining that, among other things, she thought timed gates would be difficult to implement and 
that she felt torn about whether to open the Westley Avenue entrance to the park. After 
additional discussion, the Council voted in favor of adopting Councilor McGovern’s amendment 
and there after voted in favor of the Westley Avenue Policy Order, as amended.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). To that end, the Law requires that notice be posted for 
every meeting of a public body and that meetings be open and accessible to the public, unless a 
lawful executive session has been convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)&(b), 21. A “meeting” is 
defined as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s 
jurisdiction,” and “deliberation” is defined broadly as any “oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Open Meeting Law does not 
carve out an exception to the definition of “deliberation” for communications that do not result in 
a decision or vote. See OML 2020-93.
4 Additionally, a public body may not engage in serial 
communication whereby a quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of 
a meeting on a matter within the public body’s jurisdiction. See OML 2015-3; OML 2012-84; 
OML 2011-27; McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that private serial 
communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to circumvent 
the intent of the law).  
 
Based on review of the complaint and the request for further review, we understand the 
complainant to allege that Councilors McGovern and Siddiqui violated the Open Meeting Law 
when they discussed an amendment to the Westley Avenue Policy Order between the June 2 and 
June 9 meetings. The complaint asserts that Councilor McGovern “admitted to a private 
discussion” with Councilor Siddiqui, citing to Councilor McGovern’s comment during the June 
9 meeting that he and Councilor Siddiqui had spoken and that Councilor Siddiqui had suggested 
timed gates. The request for further review notes that four councilors communicated outside of a 
meeting to sponsor the Westley Avenue Policy Order and then asserts that “[o]ne of the four 
sponsors admits to discussing [the Westley Avenue Policy Order] with a fifth councillor (i.e. not 
a sponsor) after the Mayor declared the Charter Right ‘ceases discussion’ on June 2 and before 
discussion resumed on June 9.” Finally, the request for further review asserts that “[m]ore 
egregiously, an amendment to [the Westley Avenue Policy Order] was negotiated by those two 
councillors, off-the-record, which is exactly what the Open Meeting Law prohibits.” We 
understand the Council’s response to assert that the discussion between Councilor McGovern 
and Councilor Siddiqui was limited to issues related to the proposed amendment, and that the 
amendment was a separate topic from the original Westley Avenue Policy Order. 
 
To begin, we do not agree with the Complainant’s characterization of the discussion 
during the June 9 meeting as showing that Councilor McGovern and Councilor Siddiqui 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
“negotiated” an amendment to the Westley Avenue Policy Order. Instead, the video recording of 
the June 9 meeting shows that Councilor McGovern and Councilor Siddiqui had some discussion 
regarding opening the Westley Avenue entrance to Linear Park during which Councilor Siddiqui 
mentioned timed gates. Indeed, during the June 9 meeting Councilor Siddiqui expressed doubt 
that timed gates would be feasible and noted feeling torn about whether to vote in favor of 
opening the Westley Avenue entrance to Linear Park. Regardless, the discussion that forms the 
basis of the complaint was between two councilors, which is less than a quorum of the Council 
and therefore did not constitute deliberation. To the extent the complainant alleges that because 
Councilor McGovern was a sponsor of the original Westley Avenue Policy Order and Councilor 
Siddiqui was not, their discussion must have constituted serial deliberation, we have consistently 
explained that mere speculation or conjecture regarding deliberation outside of a posted meeting, 
without factual support, is insufficient to support a complaint’s allegations. See, e.g., OML 2025-
15; OML 2023-242; OML 2012-59.5  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council 
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Cambridge City Council (via email: CityCouncil@CambridgeMA.GOV)  
 Cambridge City Clerk (via email: cityclerk@cambridgema.gov) 
Charles Teague (via email: ) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
5 Although we do not find a violation here, we caution the Council that the Open Meeting Law lists several 
exceptions to the definition of “deliberation.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. It does not list as an exception a topic that has 
already been discussed at a meeting. See OML 2026-25. 
