===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
May 23, 2019 
OML 2019-57
Colin Boyle, Esq.
Morgan, Brown & Joy, LLP 
200 State Street 
Boston, MA 02109
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Attorney Boyle:
This office received six complaints from Eileen Mooney of the NEWSletter on 
December 3 and December 6, alleging that the Great Barrington Housing Authority Board of 
Commissioners (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The 
complaints were originally filed with the Board on or about September 28, October 17, 
October 18, October 262 and October 31, and you responded to the complaints, on behalf of 
the Board, in separate letters dated November 6 and November 27. In her complaints, Mr. 
Mooney alleges that the Board created a subcommittee for the purpose of conducting a 
performance evaluation of the Great Barrington Housing Authority executive director that did 
not comply with the Open Meeting Law and withheld the performance evaluation that was 
created during a meeting of the subcommittee. Ms. Mooney also alleges that a quorum of the 
Board met privately with a candidate for interim executive director, and that the Board’s 
October 16 executive session, during which the Board took a vote to terminate the executive 
director, was improperly held. Finally, Ms. Mooney alleges that the Board improperly 
discussed Open Meeting Law complaints in executive session on October 30.
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a meeting and by discussing matters that were not appropriate for an 
executive session. Additionally, we find that the Board’s Personnel Subcommittee violated 
the Open Meeting Law by failing to comply with the Open Meeting Law, including by failing 
to post notice and create minutes of its meetings, and failing to make available a document
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018, unless otherwise indicated.
2 We note that Ms. Mooney filed another complaint with the Board on October 31 that contains the same 
allegations.

===PAGE 2===
used during a meeting. We do not find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
other ways alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the 
Board’s responses to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the notices and open and executive session minutes of the 
Board’s October 16 meeting notice and the notice and open session minutes of the Board’s 
October 30 meeting. Finally, we reviewed a letter, dated April 29, 2019, you sent to us in 
response to our request.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member body, thus three members 
constitute a quorum. In the fall of 2018, the Board terminated its executive director and hired 
an interim executive director. Prior to that, on August 30, the Board voted to delegate the task 
of conducting a performance evaluation of the then-executive director to Board members 
Karen Smith and James Mercer. On or about September 17, Ms. Smith and Mr. Mercer began 
gathering documentation in preparation for the evaluation. They scored the executive 
director’s performance separately and then reviewed the results together. According to the 
Board’s response, in early October, they met with the executive director to discuss her 
performance and provide her with an evaluation with a 180-page attachment. This evaluation 
was also shared with the other Board members.
The Board then met in executive session on October 16 to approve a separation 
agreement to be executed with the executive director, which was publicly announced at its 
October 30 meeting. On its meeting notice and in the public announcement, the executive 
session topic was listed as follows:
Executive Session under MGL c. 30A, §21(a)(2) to conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel and to conduct contract 
negotiations with nonunion personnel (Executive Director).
During the executive session, the Board discussed the outcome of the Personnel 
Subcommittee’s evaluation of the executive director, which was a recommendation to 
terminate her. The Board members individually reviewed the separation agreement. Ms. 
Smith repeatedly noted that neither the evaluation nor the former executive director’s 
professional competence could be discussed behind closed doors, although much of the 
discussion revolved around the evaluation. The Board voted to “accept the separation 
agreement as written,” which Ms. Smith then signed. The Board briefly discussed the process 
for hiring the interim and permanent executive director.
On October 18, Mr. Mercer called Ms. Smith to inform her that he had found a 
potential candidate for interim executive director. On October 20, Mr. Mercer and Ms. Smith 
met with the candidate to discuss her resume and work experience. On October 26, Mr. 
Mercer sent an email to the Board informing them that they need to “get an Interim Director 
in the office ASAP. I reached out to the state regarding the process and found a potential 
candidate. Prior to the ‘update’ at the meeting I would like to arrange a meet/greet with the
2

===PAGE 3===
potential candidate.” Ms. Smith and Board member Diane Dillon, via email to the rest of the 
Board, each expressed an interest in attending the meeting with the candidate. Board member 
Jackie Sinico declined to attend, but asked Mr. Mercer for the resume and other information. 
On October 28, Mr. Mercer and Ms. Dillon met with the candidate and discussed her work 
experience.
On October 30 in open session, the Board discussed the candidate, including her 
qualifications and the process by which it selected her as a candidate, and voted to offer her 
the position. Ms. Smith then signed the employment contract on behalf of the Board. This 
topic was listed on the meeting notice under “New Business” as “Update on Interim Director- 
James Mercer.” Also during this meeting, the Board convened in executive session for the 
purpose as stated on the meeting notice and in open session as follows:
under MGL c. 30A, §21(a)(l) to discuss complaints or charges brought against, a 
public officer, employee, staff member or individual, specifically the complaints by 
Eileen Mooney and Michelle Loubert alleging violation of Open Meeting Law by the 
Commissioners of the Housing Authority and/or under MGL c. 30A, §21(a)(3) to 
discuss litigation strategy regarding same. Discussion in open session would have a 
detrimental effect on the Board’s litigating position.
During the executive session, the Board discussed several Open Meeting Law 
complaints recently filed with the Board.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law’s purpose is “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that all meetings of a public body 
be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. “Public body” is defined, in part, as “a multiple 
member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative 
branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed 
or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A 
“subcommittee” is defined as a multiple-member body created to advise or make 
recommendations to a public body. Id.
A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction^]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines 
“deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within 
its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a 
meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting or the 
distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no 
opinion of a member is expressed.” Id. (emphasis added). Expression of an opinion on
3

===PAGE 4===
matters within a body's jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no 
other public body member responds. See OML 2012-15; OML 2012-8; OML 2011-37.
I. The Board’s Personnel Subcommittee Failed to Post Notice of its Meetings.
Instead Improperly Deliberating Outside of a Noticed Meeting.
The complainant alleges that the Personnel Subcommittee met outside of a noticed 
meeting to discuss and conduct a performance evaluation of the former executive director.
We agree. During its August 30 meeting, the Board voted to delegate the task of conducting 
the “employee performance review” to Ms. Smith and Mr. Mercer. This formal delegation of 
authority to two Board members created a subcommittee that is subject to the Open Meeting 
Law. See OML 2017-50; OML 2016-33; cf OML 2017-111 (the delegation of authority to 
one member is not a public body because it is not a “multiple-member body”). Because we 
find that the Personnel Subcommittee is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, we 
find that it violated the law by failing to comply with the Law’s requirements. Accordingly, 
we order the Personnel Subcommittee to create meeting minutes to the best of its ability for 
the meetings it held, whether in person or via telephone, and to publicly disclose any written 
communication exchanged between its members. This includes the meeting at which the 
Personnel Subcommittee reviewed the performance evaluation with the former executive 
director, a meeting for which no executive session purpose would have applied. See District 
Attorney for the North District v. School Comm, of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 568 (2009) 
(although it is clear that professional competence must first be discussed in an open session, 
how that evaluation will factor into a contract or salary negotiation strategy may be a suitable 
discussion for an executive session); see also G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (Purpose 1 allows a 
public body to convene in executive session to “discuss the reputation, character, physical 
condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual]”)
(emphasis added).
II. The Evaluation Created by the Personnel Subcommittee is a Document Used at
a Meeting That Must Be Disclosed to the Public.
The complainant also alleges that the Board improperly withheld the evaluation 
created and discussed by the Personnel Subcommittee with the former executive director. We 
agree. Because the Personnel Subcommittee is a public body subject to the Open Meeting 
Law, any document it “used” during a meeting is public in its entirety. The Open Meeting 
Law states that all documents and exhibits used during an open meeting “shall be public 
records in their entirety and not exempt from disclosure pursuant to any of the exemptions” to 
the public records law, although certain material may be exempt from disclosure to the public 
as personnel information, including “materials used in a performance evaluation of an 
individual bearing on his professional competence, provided they were not created by the 
members of the body for the purposes of the evaluation.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e) (emphasis 
added). Where a document is physically present, verbally identified, and the contents are 
discussed by the members of a public body during a meeting, it has been “used” for purposes 
of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-12; OML 2012-42. Here, the Personnel 
Subcommittee compiled documentation regarding the former executive director’s 
performance, scored her performance, and created an evaluation with a 180-page attachment,
4

===PAGE 5===
which it discussed with the former executive director. Because this meeting should have been 
held during a properly posted open meeting, the evaluation created by the Personnel 
Subcommittee (along with its attachment) is a document it “used” during that meeting and is a 
public record.3 See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e). Furthermore, because the evaluation was created by 
the Personnel Subcommittee, it does not fall within the exception for materials used in a 
performance evaluation that were created by others. Accordingly, we order the Personnel 
Subcommittee to disclose the evaluation to the public within 30 days of this letter.
III. The Board Improperly Deliberated About the Interim Director Outside of a
Noticed Meeting.
The complainant alleges that a quorum of the Board met with a candidate for interim 
director outside of a properly noticed meeting. We agree. First, Mr. Mercer’s October 26 
email to the Board notifying them that he had located a potential candidate and inviting them 
to meet with her before the Board’s next meeting is clearly a matter of Board business and 
thus constituted deliberation. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Second, although only two members 
(hence a subquorum) met at any given time with the candidate outside of a meeting, Mr. 
Mercer was present for both meetings, creating a rotating quorum of three members 
discussing the same topic: the candidate. A public body may not engage in a serial 
communication, whereby a quorum communicates in a noncontemporaneous manner outside 
of a meeting, on a matter within the public body's jurisdiction. See McCrea v. Flaherty. 71 
Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that private serial communications violate the spirit of the 
Open Meeting Law and may not be used to circumvent the intent of the law). Accordingly, 
the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by serially deliberating outside of a meeting. See 
OML 2014-93.
IV. Portions  of the Board’s October 16 Executive Session Discussion Were
Improper.
The complainant alleges that the Board improperly convened in executive session on 
October 16 to discuss the former executive director’s evaluation and improperly voted to 
terminate her behind closed doors. During this executive session, the Board relied on G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(2) “[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion 
personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion 
personnel.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”). A public body may not discuss an 
individual’s professional competence in executive session. See District Attorney for the 
North District v. School Comm, of Wavland, 455 Mass, at 568. Although we find no 
evidence that the Board discussed the details of the former executive director’s evaluation or 
professional competence in executive session,4 several members discussed the process by 
which the evaluation was handled. Additionally, the Board briefly discussed the process for 
hiring the interim and permanent executive director; a topic that was unrelated to the purpose
3 We note, however, that to the extent the Subcommittee used any evaluations of individuals who were not 
members of the Committee, those might be withheld pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e).
4 We note that at several points during the discussion, Ms. Smith appropriately cautioned the other Board 
members not to discuss professional competence.
5

===PAGE 6===
for the executive session and therefore inappropriately discussed behind closed doors.
Finally, the Board’s vote to approve the separation agreement should have been done in open, 
rather than executive session. A public body may agree on terms with individual non-union 
personnel in executive session; however, the final vote to execute such agreements must be 
taken by the public body in open session. Id.; OML 2016-164; OML 2013-84. All three of 
these topics were inappropriate for executive session and in violation of the Open Meeting 
Law.
As a result of our finding, we order the Board, within 30 days of this letter, to publicly 
release the portion of the executive session minutes regarding the evaluation, the vote, and the 
subsequent discussion regarding the interim and permanent executive director. The Board 
may not redact or withhold that portion of the minutes in any way. See G.L c. 30A, § 22(f) 
(“The minutes of any executive session ... may be withheld from disclosure to the public in 
their entirety ... as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive 
session, but no longer; provided, however, that the executive session was held in compliance 
with section 21 ”) (emphasis added)); OML 2014-42.
V. The Board’s October 30 Executive Session Discussion Was Appropriately
Held under Purpose 1, not Purpose 3.
Finally, the complainant alleges that the Board improperly convened in executive 
session on October 30 to review Open Meeting Law complaints that had been filed with it.
We have consistently said that a public body may convene in executive session pursuant to 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) to review Open Meeting Law complaints. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) 
(“Purpose 1” allows a public body “[t]o discuss the reputation, character, physical condition 
or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the 
discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, 
employee, staff member or individual”); OML 2013-82; OML 2012-119; OML 2011-6.
The Board also cited to Purpose 3 as the basis for its executive session executive 
session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3” allows a public body “to discuss strategy 
with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares”). 
Although some administrative adjudicatory matters before an agency may be appropriate for a 
discussion of litigation strategy under Purpose 3, see OML 2015-13, Open Meeting Law 
complaints result in an administrative review process conducted by our office, rather than a 
proceeding before a judge or an adjudicatory hearing officer, and are therefore not considered 
litigation for which strategy would need to be protected. Additionally, this administrative 
complaint process could ultimately lead to litigation if our office found an intentional 
violation for which an adjudicatory hearing officer would be appointed to conduct an 
independent review of the case or if the public body appeals our decision in superior court. 
However, the review of Open Meeting Law complaints for the purpose of preparing an initial 
response does not rise to the level of imminently threatened litigation. The mere possibility of 
litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3. See Doherty v. School Comm, of Boston, 386 
Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Perryman v. School Comm, of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct 346, 352
6

===PAGE 7===
(1983); OML 2012-05. Accordingly, the Board should not have relied on Purpose 3 for this 
discussion. Because the discussion was appropriately held under Purpose 1, however, we find 
no violation in this regard.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by deliberating outside of a meeting and by discussing matters that were not appropriate for 
its October 16 executive session. Additionally, we find that the Board’s Personnel 
Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to comply with the Open Meeting 
Law, including failing to post notice and create minutes of its meetings, and make available a 
document used during a meeting. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance 
with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the law. Additionally, we order the Personnel Subcommittee to 
create and approve minutes of its meetings and to disclose the evaluation of the executive 
director, including the 180-page attachment, to the public. We also order the Board to release 
its October 16 executive session minutes in accordance with the above guidance. Finally, we 
order all Board members to review the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Training 
Videos #1-7 and certify to our office within thirty (30) days of this letter, using the attached 
form, that it has complied with this order.5
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Eileen  Mooney, the NEWSletter
Great Barrington Housing Authority Board of Commissioners
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
5 The videos may be found at the Attorney General’s website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
7

===PAGE 8===
Certification of Compliance with Order
hereby certify that I have read the Attorney General’s determination
(print name)
number OML 2019-57 and, pursuant to the order therein, reviewed the Attorney General’s
Open Meeting Law Training Videos #1-7 on_______
(date)
Board Member Signature Date
