===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 13, 2017 
OML 2017-144 
Winchester School Committee 
c/o Dr. Judith Evans, Superintendent 
40 Samoset Road 
Winchester, MA 01890 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Dr. Evans: 
This office received a complaint from Claire Barden on June 26, alleging that the 
Winchester School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about April 
13, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated May 31.2 In her 
complaint, Ms. Barden alleges that the Committee failed to properly respond to a request for 
the February 28 meeting minutes and failed to make available the documents and exhibits 
used during that meeting. Ms. Barden also alleges that those minutes are insufficiently 
detailed. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include sufficient detail in its February 28 meeting minutes. We find no violation 
with respect to the other allegations cited in the complaint. In reaching a determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed the notice, minutes and video-recording of the Committee's 
February 28 meeting.3 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017. 
2 The Committee did not provide our office with a copy of this response. We remind the Committee that the 
Open Meeting Law requires that unless an extension is granted by our office, the response must be sent to the 
complainant and the Attorney General within 14 business days of a public body's receipt of a complaint. See 
G.L. c. 3OA, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
3 The video recording is available at http://wincam.org/programs/on-demand/. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On March 6, the complainant sent an email to 
Committee member Michael Schindelman requesting a copy of the February 28 meeting 
minutes. The complainant again sent an email on March 7 to Mr. Schindelman, copying 
Committee Chair Susan Verdicchio, asking where she could obtain a copy of the same 
minutes. That same day, Chair Verdicchio responded to the complainant, stating, "I expect 
the Feb 28 minutes are still being processed." The minutes did not exist at the time of the 
requests, but were drafted soon after, on April 1, and were approved on April 4. On April 10, 
the complainant submitted another request for the minutes, which the Committee provided on 
April 13.4 
The February 28 meeting minutes condense an hour-long discussion about transition 
to 5-day all-day kindergarten into two paragraphs, stating that the superintendent expressed a 
preference for moving to a full-day tuition-based program, noting it "would offer a significant 
educational benefit to students." The minutes reflect a recommendation by a Committee 
member to adopt a non-fee program, suggesting that the Committee submit a warrant article 
for support of a tuition-free program, which the Committee voted and approved. Although 
the minutes do not reflect it, the Committee engaged in a lengthy exchange about the program 
and whether to charge tuition. The Committee also discussed whether to hire teacher's 
assistants and what the budgetary impact would be on the Town. The Finance Director was 
present and offered his opinion about the financial implications of the Committee's decision. 
In response to this complaint being filed with our office, the Committee revised that section of 
the minutes on July 25. The revised minutes include an additional two pages of summary on 
the discussion. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, 
the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing 
minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with 
the accuracy requirement. See OML 2013-64.5 By substantial compliance, we mean that the 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did 
not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what 
occurred. See OML 2012-106. The minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether 
4 We note that the complainant also points to two Open Meeting Law complaints in which she had requested the 
minutes. The Open Meeting Law complaint form is not a format for requesting meeting minutes. Rather, it is a 
complaint to a public body for failure to follow the Open Meeting Law. Therefore, we decline to consider those 
complaints as requests for meeting minutes. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www. mass. gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
approved or in draft form, must be made available upon request by any person within 10 days. 
G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(c). 
First, the complainant alleges that the Committee failed to properly respond to her 
March 6 and 7 requests for the February 28 meeting minutes. The requested minutes did not 
exist at the time of the request, of which Chair Verdicchio informed her within 10 days. See 
OML 2016-139; OML 2016-71, OML 2015-173 (when minutes do not exist, the body must 
respond to the requestor within 10 days, notifying the requestor that requested minutes do not 
exist in either approved or draft form). This response complied with the Open Meeting Law. 
Then, when the complainant submitted another request for the minutes on April 10, the 
Committee promptly provided her with the minutes on April 13. Accordingly, the Committee 
properly complied with the Open Meeting Law's requirement that minutes, if they exist, be 
provided within 10 days of a request. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). 
Second, the complaint alleges that the Committee failed to provide all documents and 
other exhibits used during the February 28 meeting. The Open Meeting Law provides that all 
documents and exhibits used during an open meeting are public records in their entirety. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 22(e). However, a request for minutes does not automatically include a request for 
those records, as well. Here, the Committee listed the documents used during the meeting in 
its minutes. A request for those listed documents can be made pursuant to the Public Records 
Law, G.L. c. 66, § 10. Accordingly, we find no violation for the Committee's failure to 
include such records in its response to the complainant's request for the February 28 meeting 
minutes, as they were not specifically requested by the complainant. 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the Committee's February 28 meeting minutes are 
insufficiently detailed. Specifically, the complaint concerns an hour-long discussion about the 
Committee's decision to transition from half-day to full-day kindergarten. We agree and find 
that the minutes lacked sufficient detail in violation of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 
2017-103. The original minutes condensed the hour-long discussion into four sentences, 
reflecting an overview summary of the Committee's ultimate decision, rather than an 
understanding of the actual discussion that occurred among the Committee that led to that 
decision. We note that this is not the Committee's first violation with respect to the 
sufficiency of its minutes. See OML 2017-103. However, we acknowledge the Committee's 
overall efforts to improve its minutes and we commend the Committee for voluntarily 
revising the minutes in response to the complaint filed with our office. The revised minutes 
provide the reader with a sufficient understanding of the actual discussion in compliance with 
the law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to include sufficient detail in its February 28 meeting minutes. We order the 
Committee's immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution 
that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Claire Barden 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 