===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL;(617)727-2200 
www. mass,gov/ago 
December 14, 2015 
OML 2015-187 
Dario P. Nardi, Chair 
Warren Board of Selectmen 
48 High Street 
P.O. Box 609 
Warren, MA 01083 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Dear Chair Nardi: 
This office received a complaint from Peter Krawczyk, dated November 17, alleging that 
the Warren Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on October 15, and the Board 
responded by letter dated October 22. In his complaint, Mr. Krawczyk alleges that two Board 
members deliberated outside of a meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Board's response; and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed a letter written by Chair Nardi 
to Mr. Krawczyk, dated October 5.2 Finally, we reviewed the minutes of a Board meeting held 
on September 22. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body. On the morning 
of September 3, Chair Nardi learned that the Warren Highway Department was operating 
vehicles that had failed safety inspections. This is a matter within the Board's jurisdiction. He 
immediately called fellow Board member James Gagner, seeking his opinion on how this matter 
should be handled. The Chair and Mr. Gagner decided that the Board should contact the 
Department of Transportation and the State Police regarding this matter. In his October 5 letter 
to the complainant. Chair Nardi stated, "As acting Chairman I felt this was very important and 
deemed this an emergency." Chair Nardi attempted to contact his other Board colleague, Robert 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
Lavash, but was unsuccessful. No notice of this telephone conversation was given to the public, 
and no minutes of this discussion were kept. During a Board meeting on September 22, Chair 
Nardi disclosed that the September 3 phone call had taken place. Based on that statement, Mr. 
Krawczyk filed the present complaint. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, "except in an emergency... a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays," and every notice shall include, "the date, time and place of such meeting and 
a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b). An "emergency" is defined as "a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set 
of circumstances demanding immediate action." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. In an emergency, a public 
body shall post notice as soon as reasonably possible prior to such meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 
The Open Meeting Law further provides that a public body must conduct all deliberations 
during a properly noticed meeting. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(a). A "deliberation" is defined as "an 
oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." Id Generally, 
for the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority of the members of 
the public body. Id. 
Here, it is undisputed that Chair Nardi spoke with Mr. Gagner on October 3 by telephone 
regarding business within the Board's jurisdiction. Even if we were to accept the statement that 
the matter discussed required immediate Board action, and therefore fit within the "emergency" 
exception to the Open Meeting Law's 48-hour notice requirement, it was not appropriate to hold 
this discussion by telephone. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(a). If the Board believed that the matter 
was a true emergency, a meeting should have been held and notice posted as soon as reasonably 
possible. G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b). The Board violated the Open Meeting Law by holding the 
discussion at issue here outside of such a meeting. See OML 2013-157. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution 
that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. We note 
that the substance of the private September 3 conversation has already been disclosed. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
DISCUSSION 
20(b). 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
2 
===PAGE 3===
cc: Peter Krawczyk 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. BOA, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 