===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
B OSTON, M ASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAICLEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
October 15, 2013 
OML 2013-147 
John O'Rourke, Chair 
Board of Selectmen 
32 Main St. 
P.O. Box 240 
Conway, MA 01341 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint - Conway Board of Selectmen 
Dear Mr. O'Rourke: 
This office received a complaint from Edward MacDonald, dated March 9, 2013, alleging 
that the Conway Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint alleges that the Board terminated Mr. MacDonald's employment with 
the Town during its January 14, 2013 meeting, but failed to provide proper notice of the 
discussion and anticipated action. Additionally, the complaint alleges that the Board members 
deliberated outside of a noticed meeting to agree to tenninate Mr. MacDonald's employment. 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a posted meeting by agreeing 
to add a candidate for consideration for a vacant municipal position ahead of its January 7, 2013 
meeting. The complaint was filed with the Board on February 11, 2013. The Board responded 
by letter dated February 14, 2013. 
We decline to review the allegations regarding the Board's January 7, 2013 meeting 
because they are untimely.1 Following our review of the remaining allegations, we find that the 
1 The Open Meeting Law requires that complaints be filed, on an Open Meeting Law complaint form, with the 
public body within 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(1). If the alleged 
violation could not have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed with the public body 
within 30 days of the date on which the alleged violation could reasonably have been discovered. 940 CMR 
29.05(3). Here, the complaint alleges that Chair John O'Rourke contacted the complainant on January 7, 2013, 
asking him to add the name of a candidate for highway superintendent to the agenda for that evening's Board 
meeting. The allegation is that the Board may have met prior to January 7, 2013 to decide to add the additional 
candidate to the meeting agenda. Because the alleged violation could have been reasonably discovered on January 
O 
===PAGE 2===
Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include in the notice for its January 14, 2013 
meeting a topic reasonably anticipated by the Chair. We find that the Board did not deliberate 
outside of a noticed meeting to agree to terminate Mr. MacDonald's employment. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the February 11, 2013 complaint filed with the Board; the Board's 
February 14, 2013 response; and the March 9, 2013 complaint filed with our office. 
Additionally, we reviewed the notice for the Board's January 14, 2013 meeting. 
FACTS 
During the Board's January 7, 2013 meeting, the complainant, Edward MacDonald, who 
was at the time the Town Administrator for the Town of Conway, informed the Board that he 
would be resigning effective February 7, 2013. The Board posted notice for its January 14, 2013 
meeting on January 10, 2013. According to the Board's response to the complaint, the notice 
was prepared by Mr. MacDonald. That notice included five topics including "Hiring new town 
administrator" under the category "Old Business," and "Selectmen's Concerns," which appears 
to be a category for topics raised by Board members that were not reasonably anticipated by the 
Chair 48 hours before the meeting. On January 10, 2012, Chair O'Rourke2 received a call from a 
newspaper reporter asking if he was aware that Mr. MacDonald was still employed as the Town 
Administrator for the Town of Chester. Chair O'Rourke replied that he was not aware. On 
January 12, 2013, an article appeared in The Recorder, entitled "Conway Surprise," describing 
Mr. MacDonald's roles with the two towns. 
On January 14, 2013, Chair O'Rourke consulted with Town Counsel and the Chair of the 
Personnel Committee regarding Mr. MacDonald's employment. Mr. O'Rourke states in the 
Board's February 14, 2013 response to the complaint that he was advised that Mr. MacDonald 
was likely in breach of contract and that the Board did not have to accept the 30 day notice that 
Mr. MacDonald had offered on January 7, 2013. Chair O'Rourke then directed the Town 
Treasurer to print a final check for Mr. MacDonald. 
During the "Selectmen's concerns" portion of the Board's January 14, 2013 meeting, 
Chair O'Rourke made a motion to accept Mr. MacDonald's resignation as Town Administrator, 
effective immediately. The motion passed unanimously. 
In response to the complaint. Chair O'Rourke writes that "the decisions made in both 
these instances were solely mine and did not involve 'secret meetings or deliberations' as alleged 
by [the complainant]." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). In the Board's response to the complaint. Chair O'Rourke 
writes that "Edward MacDonald, as Town Administrator, was responsible for preparing the 
7, 2013, the complaint must have been filed on or before February 6, 2013. The complaint was not filed until 
February 11, 2013. We therefore find this allegation to be untimely. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
agenda for the meetings of the Board of Selectmen. Having handed the Board of Selectmen his 
resignation at the very end of the meeting of the Board of Selectmen on January 7, discussion of 
that event was an obvious follow up at the next meeting of the Board of Selectmen on January 
14, 2013 and should have been included on the agenda by the Town Administrator without 
prompting by the Chairman of the Board of Selectmen." While the chair may delegate the task 
of drafting the agenda to another individual, the chair still has an obligation to inform that person 
of all items the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. It appears that Chair O'Rourke 
anticipated discussion of Mr. MacDonald's resignation at the January 14, 2013 meeting as early 
as January 7, 2013, though it does not appear that Chair O'Rourke anticipated the specific action 
of accepting the Town Administrator's resignation, effective immediately, until he met with the 
Town Counsel and Chair of the Personnel Committee on January 14, 2013. Certainly, it became 
more likely when Chair O'Rourke received a phone call from a newspaper reporter regarding 
Mr. MacDonald's employment on January 10, 2013. The Chair should, therefore, have updated 
the meeting notice to include the Town Administrator's resignation as a topic for discussion, or 
the Board should have postponed discussion until a subsequent meeting, to allow for inclusion of 
the topic in a meeting notice. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2013-39.3 
With regards to the allegation that the Board deliberated outside of a noticed meeting to 
agree to terminate Mr. MacDonald's employment. Chair O'Rourke writes "the decisions made in 
both these instances were solely mine and did not involve 'secret meetings or deliberations' as 
alleged by [the complainant]." We find this statement to be credible. It appears that the Chair 
discovered information that he brought to the Board's attention during its January 14, 2013 
meeting, and that the Board agreed in a public meeting to accept Mr. MacDonald's resignation 
effective as of that date. We therefore find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
with respect to this allegation. 
As a final matter, we note that in his March 9, 2013 complaint filed with our office and in 
an April 5, 2013 letter addressed to our office, Mr. MacDonald provided evidence of numerous 
other alleged violations of the Open Meeting Law by the Board. Because these allegations were 
not raised in the initial complaint filed with the Board, and because the allegations are untimely, 
we decline to review them. However, we remind that the Board of its obligations under the 
Open Meeting Law. Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with "'sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body's discussion. See OML 2012-19. Public Body members must also avoid 
deliberating over email. See OML 2012-84; OML 2012-67; OML 2011-37. A "deliberation" is 
"an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, 
however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling 
information or distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or 
documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. We encourage the Board members to review the Attorney 
General's Open Meeting Law training video available at www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 Open Meeting Law deteminations can be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www .mass, gov/ago/opemneeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post notice of a topic 
reasonably anticipated by the Chair 48 hours in advance of its January 14, 2013 meeting. We 
find that the Board did not deliberate outside of a noticed meeting to agree to terminate Mr. 
MacDonald's employment. We order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, and caution the Board that evidence of a similar future violation may be 
considered an intentional violation of the Law. We do not order the Board to rescind its January 
14, 2013 vote to accept the Town Administrator's resignation effective as of that date, because it 
does not appear that the vote was reasonably anticipated by the Chair more than 48 hours before 
the meeting. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you any questions regarding 
this determination. 
Sincerely, 
Dnathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Edward MacDonald 
Stanley L. Weinberg, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. BOA, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 