===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
November 18, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 206 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Brian W. Riley 
KP Law 
briley@k-plaw.com 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
 
This office received a complaint from George Harris on May 23, 2022,
1 alleging that the 
Wayland Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about March 25, and you responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated April 13. The complaint alleges that the Board posted 
insufficiently specific notices for meetings held on March 7 and 14.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law with 
respect to some topics included on the notice for its March 7 meeting. We find that the Board did 
not otherwise violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this determination we 
reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further 
review, notices and minutes for the Board’s March 7 and 14 meetings, and video recordings of 
the Board’s March 7 and 14 meetings.
2   
 
FACTS 
 
 The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on March 7. Included on the notice was 
the topic “Acting Town Administrator Update,” under which three subtopics were included: 
“COA/CC,” “Mill Creek next steps,” and “Earthwell update.” During the update, the Acting 
Town Administrator, Stephen Crane, and the Board discussed the status of a project to build a 
multi-use community center for the Council on Aging; a proposed apartment building project 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise noted. 
2 Video recordings of the Board’s March 7 and 14 meetings can be found at www.waycam.tv/government -on-
demand. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
called Mill Creek Residential; and an application for a medical marijuana dispensary for a 
company called Earthwell, including the need for the Board to draft a Host Community 
Agreement. Finally, Mr. Crane informed the Board that the Town had hired a new human 
resources director and that the Town’s treasurer was leaving for another opportunity.   
 
The notice for the March 7 meeting also included a “consent calendar” which listed the 
following, “1. Vote the question of designating and approving signing authority to Stephen 
Crane, Acting Town Administrator on items listed below. . . . 3. Vote the question of approving 
Weston, MA TIP ID #608940.” During the consent agenda, Board member Carol Martin invited 
Mr. Crane to discuss the “TIP letter.”3 Thereafter, Mr. Crane explained that the town of Weston 
sought support for a transportation improvement project it was undertaking on Route 20, which 
runs into Wayland. Mr. Crane further explained that Wayland did not have a competing project, 
that the letter was a carbon copy of what other towns had submitted, and that he saw no reason 
not to support the project. Ms. Martin asked the location of the project and Mr. Crane responded 
that he was not sure of the location and noted that another town had submitted for a similar 
project. In total, this exchange lasted approximately 44 seconds. After this exchange there was 
no further discussion and the Board voted to approve four out of five consent agenda items, with 
one item, not at issue in this complaint, having been removed from the consent agenda.  
 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on March 14. Included on the notice 
was a “consent calendar” which listed the following,  
 
1. Vote the question of designating and approving signing authority to Stephen 
Crane, Acting Town Administrator on items listed below. . . . 5. Vote the question 
of approving the Improvements to Loker Conservation and Recreation Area [Soil] 
Assessment Services Contract Amendment Proposal Spring 2022 Re -Bid. 6. Vote 
the question of approving Massachusetts DPH contract #  
INTF1115P01W22162006. . . . 10. Vote the question of approving the Tower 
Construction Corp Wayland Loker Roof Replacement Job #2285 Change Proposal 
No. 5.  
 
During the consent agenda topic the Board held substantive discussions regarding the 
Loker Conservation and Recreation contract amendment; the Loker Roof Replacement Job; and 
the use of consent agendas for specific items and in general, with one member noting his 
understanding that consent agendas were to be used for matters that did not require a discussion 
and that in the ten months he had served on the Board, the Board had yet to simply vote on a 
consent agenda. There was no discussion of the consent agenda topic “Massachusetts DPH 
contract # INTF1115P01W22162006.”  The Board ultimately voted to approve the consent 
agenda. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 We understand TIP to stand for Transportation Improvement Program. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). Every notice must include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” Id. Where the chair 
delegates to another person responsibility for creating the meeting notice, we look to what that 
person anticipated would be discussed 48 hours prior the meeting. See OML 2020-80; OML 
2015-190.4  
 
A public body is required to list topics on a notice with “sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). 
We generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public 
could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See 
OML 2015-35. When reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient 
on its face, we do not review a meeting notice standing alone. See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-
155. Rather, we review what was actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was 
sufficiently detailed to make the public aware of the discussion topics. Finally, we have stated 
that consent agenda topics, which do not require the public body’s discussion but instead are 
listed as perfunctory administrative tasks, do not need to include details such as the specific bill 
to be approved or the names of specific donors. See OML 2019-161; OML 2018-38. 
 
 The complaint alleges that notice topics “COA/CC,” “Mill Creek next steps,” “Earthwell 
update,” “Vote the question of approving Weston, MA TIP ID #608940,” and “Vote the question 
of approving Massachusetts DPH contract # INTF1115P01W22162006” were insufficient to 
reasonably inform the public of the topics to be discussed. The Board broadly acknowledges the 
insufficiency of these notice topics and asserts that it will endeavor to include clearer topics on 
its notices in the future. While we agree that some of the Board’s notice topics were insufficient, 
we find that other topics were sufficient, and that further discussion is called for.  
 
First, we note that this is not the first time our office has found the Board in violation of 
the Open Meeting Law for insufficiently specific notice topics, including for using an acronym 
not likely widely understood by the public. See OML 2020-137. As we explained to the Board in 
OML 2020-137, although a notice topic might be meaningful to Board members and regular 
Board meeting attendees, the notice topic must also reasonably inform members of the public 
unfamiliar with the ongoing matters before the Board of the anticipated nature of the discussion.  
 
 Second, in its response, the Board states that it will “add ‘ including but not limited to’ to 
the regular Town Manager Update agenda item. While the notices list items that the Chair is 
aware are planned to be discussed, the Town Manager also has authority to add topics that the 
Chair does not anticipate, and this does not violate the Law.”
5 We have consistently stated that 
where authority has been granted to another individual, in whole or in part, to create meeting 
notices, notices must include, in addition to any topics anticipated by the chair, those topics 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
5 Since the filing of this complaint, the title of Town Administrator has changed to Town Manager.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
anticipated by the other individual. See OML 2020-152 (finding that where the chair of the 
school committee and the superintendent shared responsibility for creating the meeting notice, 
the notice should have included a topic the superintendent anticipated raising, even though the 
chair was unaware of the topics). Where Mr. Crane has authority to add topics to the Board’s 
meeting notices, he and the Chair effectively share responsibility for the creation of meeting 
notices; therefore, topics anticipated by Mr. Crane must also be included on the notices.     
 
Third, we have stated that consent agenda topics, which do not require the public body’s 
discussion but instead are listed as perfunctory administrative tasks, do not need to include the 
same level of specificity as other notice topics. See OML 2019-161; OML 2018-38. Here, the 
Board did not discuss the topic “Vote the question of approving Massachusetts DPH contract # 
INTF1115P01W22162006” at all, and only very briefly received clarification regarding the topic 
“Vote the question of approving Weston, MA TIP ID #608940.” Therefore, we find that these 
consent agenda topics did not violate the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2019-161.  
 
Finally, we note that the Board appears to have a practice of holding substantive 
discussions on topics listed under the consent agenda, as it did on March 14 with respect to the 
topics related to the Loker Conservation and Recreation Area and the Loker Roof Replacement 
Job. Because these notice topics were not addressed in the complaint, we do not formally review 
their sufficiency here. However, we note that consent agendas are intended for matters that do 
not require discussion and that are perfunctory administrative tasks, such as approving payroll 
and vendor warrants. See OML 2021-153; see also OML 2018-38 (“[W]e find that the Board 
should have included the names of the individuals who were to be appointed that evening. 
Although the appointments were listed on the notice under the heading ‘Consent Agenda,’ the 
Board removed this specific topic from the ‘Consent Agenda’ during the meeting so that it could 
discuss the actual appointments.”).  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
including insufficiently specific topics on the notice for its March 7 meeting. We find that the 
Board did not otherwise violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. We order the Board’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar future 
violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law and could result in the 
imposition of a civil penalty.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Wayland Select Board (via e-mail: sbmembers@wayland.ma.us) 
 Stephen Crane, Acting Town Manager (via e- mail: scrane@wayland.ma.us) 
George Harris (via email: )  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
