===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
July 5, 2019 
OML 2019-82
Rebecca Stone 
Town Administrator 
Town Hall
One North Main Road 
Otis, MA 01253-0237
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Ms. Stone:
This office received a complaint from Haven Orecchio-Egresitz on November 27 alleging 
that the Otis Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§
18-25.1 The complaint was filed with the Board on October 23, and you responded, on behalf of 
the Board, by letter dated November 6. The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by i) failing to sufficiently state a permissible executive session purpose on its 
October 16 meeting notice; ii) holding a meeting at a location other than that listed on the 
meeting notice; and iii) failing to follow the proper procedure before convening in executive 
session.
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to sufficiently state a permissible executive session purpose on its October 16 meeting notice and 
by meeting in a location other than what was listed on the meeting notice, but that the Board 
otherwise complied with the required procedures for convening in executive session. In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, 
and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notice 
and open and executive session minutes of the Board’s October 16 meeting. Finally, we spoke 
with you on February 26, 2019.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. On October 16, the Board posted notice of an emergency 
meeting to be held later that day at 5:30 P.M. The notice listed three topics: Call to Order,
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.

===PAGE 2===
Executive Session - personnel issue, and Adjournment. The notice listed the location of the 
meeting as Conference Room, Otis Town Hall.
On October 16 around 5:30 P.M., the Board convened in open session in the Selectmen’s 
Office in Town Hall. Chair Don Hawley moved to enter into executive session “to consider the 
discipline or dismissal of, or to hear complaints or charges brought against a public officer, 
employee, staff member or individual.” The Board approved a unanimous vote by roll call to 
convene in executive session. During the executive session, the Board discussed harassment 
complaints made by a Town employee against one member of the Board.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any of 
ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Prior to entering 
executive session, a public body must convene in open session. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(b)(1). A 
majority of members of the body must vote to go into executive session; the chair must state the 
purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called; and the chair must state 
whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 22(b)(2)-(4). The meeting notice should also include a level of detail that sufficiently informs 
the public of the executive session topic to be discussed. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Executive 
session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in the announcement during 
open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the puipose for which the 
executive session was called. See District Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm, of Wayland, 455 
Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is 
necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public 
that the school committee would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would 
know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper.”); see also G.L. c. 30A, 66 20(b), 
21(b)(3); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).
The complaint alleges that the notice for the Board’s October 16 meeting did not state a 
permissible executive session purpose. Here, the October 16 meeting notice stated that the 
Board would be meeting in executive session to discuss “a personnel issue.” The Open Meeting 
Law does not contain an executive session purpose for general discussion of personnel matters, 
and we have stated in prior determinations that identifying an executive session as a discussion 
of a “personnel” issue is not a sufficiently specific statement of the executive session purpose.
See OML 2014-42; OML 2011-9.2 At a minimum, the Board should have stated in its notice the 
statutory purpose that formed the basis for the anticipated executive session. See id. Doing so 
would have provided the public with more information about the Board’s intended discussion 
without compromising the purpose for the executive session. See OML 2013-141. We therefore
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
find that the Board’s notice was insufficiently specific to comply with the requirements of the 
Open Meeting Law.
We conclude, however, that the discussions in executive session, which pertained to 
complaints against a public officer, fell within a proper statutory purpose. A public body may 
enter executive session “to discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, 
rather than professional competence of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, 
or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or 
individual.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The individual to be discussed during such an executive 
session must be notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed 
executive session and has the right to be present during deliberations, to have counsel present, 
and to speak on his own behalf.3 Id. When the Board convened in executive session on October 
16, Chair Hawley specifically stated that the Board would “consider the discipline or dismissal 
of, or to hear complaints or charges brought against a public officer, employee, staff member or 
individual.” The Board then discussed complaints made by a Town employee against a member 
of the Board.
The complaint also alleges that the Board violated the law by holding its October 16 
executive session in a location other than the one listed on the meeting notice and by failing to 
follow the proper procedures when it entered into executive session. The notice stated that the 
October 16 executive session would take place in the Conference Room in Town Hall. Here, the 
Board convened in the Selectmen’s Office and completed the appropriate procedural steps before 
convening in executive session, including announcing the purpose for the executive session and 
taking a roll call vote. In this respect, the Board complied with the Open Meeting Law’s 
procedural requirements for entering executive session. However, the public has a right to 
witness these procedural steps in order to observe the vote and learn the purpose for the 
executive session. See OML 2013-195. Because the meeting notice inaccurately identified the 
location where those procedural steps would take place, members of the public were denied this 
right. See OML 2018-95. As such, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to sufficiently state a permissible executive session purpose on its October 16 meeting 
notice and by meeting in a location other than what was listed on the meeting notice. We order 
the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that 
similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
3 Although not raised in the complaint, we note that the individual who was the subject of the executive session 
waived his right to 48-hour notification.
3

===PAGE 4===
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Haven Orecchio-Egresitz
Otis Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
