===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 14, 2015 
OML 2015-115 
Tim D. Nonis, Esq. 
Collins, Loughran & Peloquin, P.C. 
320 Norwood Park South 
Norwood, MA 02062 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Norris: 
This office received a complaint from Ms, Desiree Aselbekian, dated April 21, alleging 
that the Southborough Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 25, and the 
Board responded to the original complaint by letter dated March 19. In her complaint, Ms. 
Aselbekian alleges that the Board: (i) posted an insufficiently specific meeting notice; and (ii) 
discussed a topic during a meeting that was not listed on the notice. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this matter. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Board's response; and the request for 
further review filed with our office. We also reviewed two notices for a joint meeting of the 
Board and the Southborough Planning Board (the "Planning Board") that took place on February 
17, as well as the minutes of this meeting. 
We find the facts as follows. The Planning Board held a meeting on February 17 that 
was partially a joint meeting with the Board. Each public body posted its own notice of the 
meeting. The Planning Board notice indicated that its meeting would begin at 5:50 p.m. The 
Board posted a notice for this meeting that listed three topics: "Presentation- Affordable Housing 
Plan Update;" "Other Business Properly Before the Board;" and "Adjournment." The Board 
notice indicated that the meeting would begin at 7:00 p.m. 
On February 17, the Planning Board convened its meeting at 5:50 p.m., as planned. At 
approximately 7:00 p.m., the Board members arrived and the joint meeting commenced. At this 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
time, the Planning Board presented an "Affordable Housing Plan Update" to the Board. 
Following this update, the Board chair discussed real property located at 84 Main Street. This 
topic was not listed on the meeting notice. The chair stated that negotiations with the owner of 
the 84 Main Street property had fallen through earlier that same day. At approximately 8:12 
p.m., the joint portion of the meeting ended, and the Board members adjourned. The Planning 
Board continued its meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting "at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays" and that every 
notice include "the date, time and place of such meeting and listings of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b). Public bodies 
must list topics for discussion with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to 
include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2012-71; OML 
2011-44. 
The complaint alleges that the Board's meeting notice was insufficiently specific. Here, 
the Board listed "Other Business Properly Before the Board" on its meeting notice to discuss 
matters not anticipated by the chair at the time the meeting notice was posted. We find that the 
Board's use of this language on the meeting notice did not violate the law's requirements. See 
OML 2013-13. While a public body may include this type of item on a meeting agenda, as a 
best practice we recommend that, when including such a topic, public bodies indicate explicitly 
that the time is being reserved for topics not anticipated by the chair. See id. 
The complaint also alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing 
the property located at 84 Main Street, even though this topic was not listed on the meeting 
notice. Because negotiations with the property owner had fallen through earlier that same day, 
we find that the chair could not have foreseen the need to discuss this topic when the meeting 
notice was created. A public body need only list topics that were reasonably anticipated by the 
chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Therefore, the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing the 84 Main Street property during the February 17 
meeting. We note, however, that as a best practice our office recommends that, whenever 
possible, public bodies update their meeting notices or postpone discussion of topics that arise 
fewer than 48 hours before a meeting, so that members of the public may be given advance 
notice of agenda items.2 
2 See Open Meeting Law Frequently Asked Questions: 
May a public body consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice? 
Yes, if it is a topic that the chair did not reasonably anticipate 48 hours before the meeting. If a meeting topic is 
proposed after the meeting notice is posted, the public body is encouraged to update its posting to provide the public 
with as much notice as possible of what subjects will be discussed during a meeting. Although a public body may 
consider a topic that was not listed in the meeting notice if unanticipated, the Attorney General strongly encourages 
public bodies to postpone discussion and action on topics that are controversial or may be of particular interest to the 
public if those topics were not listed in the meeting notice. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
^ 
Kevm W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Desiree Asclbckian 
Southborough Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 