===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
B OSTON, M ASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
December 1, 2014 
OML 2014-139 
Regina Tate, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
Crown Colony Plaza 
300 Crown Colony Drive 
Suite 410 
Quincy, MA 02169 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Tate: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Thomas Flittie, dated October 14, alleging that 
the Amherst-Pelham Regional School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on August 
12, and the Committee responded to Mr. Flittie's complaint by letter dated August 27. In his 
complaint, Mr. Flittie alleges that the Committee held a meeting without providing sufficient 
notice to the public. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Committee's response; the 
request for further review filed with our office; and the meeting notice and minutes from a 
Committee meeting held on July 14. Finally, we reviewed a video recording of the July 14 
meeting. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a nine-member public body responsible 
for the operation of schools serving the residents of Amherst, Pelham, Shutesbury, and Leverett. 
On July 9, Committee member Trevor Baptiste sent to all four town clerks a notice for a special 
Committee meeting to be held on July 14. The agenda listed only one item for discussion: 
"Statement on School Equity task force controversy (vote)." Just a few minutes later, Committee 
Chair Lawrence O'Brien e-mailed the four clerks, stating that the previous meeting notice was 
sent in error. This e-mail went on to state, "There will not be a meeting on that date and the 
Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014, 
===PAGE 2===
posting should be removed." Shortly after he sent this e-mail to the clerks. Chair O'Brien sent 
an e-mail to the other Committee members. In that second e-mail. Chair O'Brien stated that, 
pursuant to advice he had received from the Committee's legal counsel, only the Committee 
Chair could call a special meeting. Shortly thereafter, Amherst's Assistant Town Clerk e-mailed 
Chair O'Brien to say that she had "canceled the meeting." In the other three towns, notice for 
the July 14 meeting was posted on July 9 and was not subsequently removed. 
On July 10, Chair O'Brien again e-mailed the Committee stating that he stood by the 
cancellation of the meeting, and he forwarded a memo from the Committee's legal counsel 
stating that only the Chair may call a special meeting. Later that day, Mr. Baptiste e-mailed the 
group stating that any Committee member had a right to call a meeting, and that the meeting 
would still be held as scheduled. On July 11, the legal counsel for the Town of Amherst sent an 
opinion to the Committee stating that only the Chair has the authority to call a special meeting. 
On July 12, Chair O'Brien e-mailed the Committee stating that he continued to consider the 
meeting to be cancelled. 
On July 14, notwithstanding the e-mails from Chair O'Brien and others, Mr. Baptiste 
convened a special meeting of the Committee. Five of the nine Committee members, a quorum 
of the public body, were present. At the conclusion of the meeting, the Committee members 
present voted to disavow a letter of reprimand that had previously been sent to one of the 
Committee members. The Committee members present stated that the reprimand "should not be 
interpreted as representing the opinions of the Amherst-Pelham Regional School Committee." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 
3OA, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Open Meeting Law defines a "meeting" as "a deliberation by a 
public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A 
"deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id. Therefore, all communications between or among a quorum of the members 
of a public body must take place in a properly noticed open meeting. Regional school 
committees must post notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting in each city and town within the 
district in the manner prescribed for local public bodies in that city or town. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(c); 940 CMR 29.03(2). However, regional school committees may choose an alternative 
posting method, such as posting to the regional school district website. See 940 CMR 
29.03(4)(b). 
The Committee has not adopted its website as its official posting location. Therefore, we 
find that because a quorum of the Committee met without posting notice of the meeting in all 
four towns that compose the district, the requirements of the Open Meeting Law were not met. 
Mr. Baptiste sent the meeting notice to the four town clerks around 2:15 p.m. on July 9, and the 
e-mail from Amherst's Assistant Town Clerk stating that she was canceling the meeting came 
around 3:30 p.m. The greatest amount of time for which it could conceivably have been posted 
in Amherst is therefore approximately 75 minutes. While it appears that the meeting notice 
2 
===PAGE 3===
remained posted in Pelham, Shutesbury, and Leverett, the citizens of Amherst did not receive 
sufficient notice of the meeting. Because the citizens of Amherst lacked notice of the meeting, 
we find that the July 14 meeting violated the Open Meeting Law. See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 
Mass. App. Ct. 637, 650 (2008) ("the notice requirement contained in the statute is an essential 
attribute of the law; it is manifestly pointless to conduct a meeting to which the law requires 
public access if no member of the public is aware that the meeting is taking place"). 
We recognize that a dispute existed as to who had authority to convene a meeting. The 
Open Meeting Law is silent on who has the authority to call meetings. We therefore take no 
position on whether Mr. Baptiste was authorized to convene the special meeting of July 14. 
However, regardless of who has the authority to convene a meeting, a quorum of a public body 
may not meet unless the meeting is properly noticed. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and we caution that 
similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Mr. Thomas Flittie 
Amherst-Pelham Regional School District 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3 