===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
January 15, 2015 
OML 2015-9 
Bonnie Conner, Chair 
Hinsdale Select Board 
39 South Street 
Hinsdale, MA 01235 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Conner: 
This office received two related complaints from Mr. Bruce Stetson, dated October 31 
and November 26, alleging that the Hinsdale Select Board (the "Board") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The first complaint was originally filed with the Board on 
September 24, and the Board responded by letter dated October 14. The second complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on October 17, and the Board responded to that complaint by 
letter dated November 5. In both complaints, Mr. Stetson alleges that the Board failed to 
respond to requests for executive session meeting minutes within the time frame required by law. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to provide executive session minutes in a timely manner. We find that this violation was 
intentional and refer this matter for a hearing pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07(3). 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed Mr. Stetson's original complaints; the Board's 
responses; and the requests for further review filed with our office. As to the first complaint, we 
also reviewed the agenda and meeting minutes for a meeting of the Board held on September 10. 
As to the second complaint, we also reviewed an agenda and executive session minutes for a 
meeting of the Board held on October 8, along with e-mail correspondence which followed that 
meeting. Finally, we spoke with Board Chair Bonnie Conner by phone on December 4. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body that meets at 
regular intervals to discuss and act on matters of governance in the Town of Hinsdale (the 
"Town"). On September 9, Mr. Stetson requested meeting minutes from an executive session 
that the Board held on July 14. On September 10, the Board held a meeting that had been 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
scheduled prior to its receipt of Mr. Stetson's request. One topic for discussion listed on the 
meeting notice was, "Review/Approve previous meeting minutes." During this meeting, the first 
set of meeting minutes discussed were those of the executive session held on July 14. The 
minutes reflect the following: "Selectman Goddard motioned to release the July 14th, 2014 
executive session minutes- let it all go. Select Board Conner seconded, all were in favor." The 
Board sent Mr. Stetson a letter dated September 24, which reads as follows: "The request that 
you had submitted for the July 14, 2014 executive session minutes has been processed. 
Enclosed, you will find the documents that you had requested at no cost to you. Please accept 
our apologies for the delay." (Emphasis added). 
On October 1, Mr. Stetson sent a second request for meeting minutes. This second 
request concerned an executive session that had taken on May 29. On November 5, Chair 
Conner sent Mr. Stetson a letter stating that the Board voted to release the May 29 executive 
session minutes during a meeting held on October 8. This letter also states that the Town's 
administrative assistant "was instructed to give them to you and she informed me she had done 
so." The Board's administrative assistant had resigned on or about October 31. On November 
21, the administrative assistant sent an e-mail to Mr. Stetson from her personal e-mail address. 
This e-mail references Chair Conner's November 5 letter, and states, in pertinent part, "I do not 
recall any of this. Ms. Conner does not have permission to speak on my behalf." Mr. Stetson's 
wife provided our office with a receipt showing that she paid the copying charges for the May 29 
executive session minutes on November 10 and picked them up on that date. The receipt was 
signed by the Board's interim administrative assistant. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law states that a public body "shall create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). A public body 
must respond to a request for executive session minutes within 10 days. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). 
If the public body has determined, prior to the request, that the requested executive session 
minutes may be released, it should respond to the requester directly, notifying him or her 
whether those minutes are available. See OML 2013-105; OML 2013-99. If the body previously 
determined that executive session minutes should remain confidential because publication would 
defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, it should respond by stating the reason why 
the minutes continue to be withheld. Id. And if, at the time of a request, the public body has not 
conducted a review of the minutes to determine whether continued nondisclosure is warranted, 
the body must perform such a review and release the minutes, if appropriate, no later than its 
next meeting or within 30 days, whichever occurs first. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). In such 
circumstances, the body should still respond to the requestor within 10 days, notifying him or her 
that it is conducting this review. See OML 2013-99. 
Here, Mr. Stetson made his request for the July 14 executive session minutes on 
September 9. The Board met the following day, September 10, and voted to release the 
requested minutes. Although Chair Conner stated during a phone conversation with our office 
that a copy of those minutes was sent to the complainant either on September 10, following the 
meeting, or first thing on September 11, we find this improbable based on the language of the 
Board's September 24 letter. The apology in that letter for the delay in providing the requested 
minutes leads us to conclude that the Board had not provided the minutes earlier than September 
24. While we commend the Board for reviewing the executive session minutes promptly , as 
2 
===PAGE 3===
required by law, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law failing to release the 
meeting minutes until two weeks had passed. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). To be in full 
compliance, the Board should have released the minutes immediately after the September 10 
meeting, or if that was not feasible given the time of day, on the next business day. See OML 
2014-138. 
Similarly, Mr. Stetson made his request for the May 29 executive session minutes on 
October 1. The Board voted during an October 8 executive session to release the May 29 
executive session minutes. However, based on the administrative assistant's e-mail and Mrs. 
Stetson's copying receipt, we find it improbable that the May 29 executive session minutes were 
provided to Mr. Stetson prior to November 10. For the reasons discussed above, this delay was 
also a violation of the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 3 OA, § 22(g)(2). 
We find that the Board's failure to provide both sets of executive session minutes within 
the required time frame was an intentional violation of the Open Meeting Law. An intentional 
violation is an "act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of 
[the Open Meeting Law]." 940 CMR 29.02. An intentional violation may be found where the 
public body has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting Law. 
Id. Here, the Board had been previously advised by our office of the requirements for reviewing 
and responding to requests for executive session minutes. In OML 2014-106, we found that the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to respond to a request for executive session 
minutes in a timely manner and we clearly advised the Board of the Open Meeting Law's 
requirements. See OML 2014-106. This determination was received by the Board just weeks 
before the violations alleged in this complaint occurred. 
We recognize that the Board's administrative assistant resigned during the time period in 
question and that this resignation created organizational complications for the Board. The Board 
nevertheless had an obligation to comply with the law. See OML 2013-166. Accordingly, we 
refer this matter for a hearing pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07(3) and recommend that the Board be 
assessed a fine of $500 for each violation pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c) ("Upon the finding of 
a violation, the attorney general may issue an order to . . . impose a civil penalty upon the public 
body of not more than $1,000 for each intentional violation"). We invite counsel for the Board 
to contact this office to discuss the hearing process. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
find this violation to be intentional, and refer this matter to a hearing pursuant to 940 CMR 
29.07(3). We recommend a fine of $1,000 ($500 per violation) and an order of immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
cc: Mr. Bruce Stetson 
Hinsdale Select Board 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
4 