===PAGE 1===
   
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
   
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.rnass.govlago 
October 6, 2010 
Stephen Gay 
Dear Mr. Gay, 
We received your complaint dated July 22, 2010, alleging a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25 (the OML), by the Board of Directors of Winchester 
Community Access & Media ("Wincam"). Your complaint alleges that Wincam violated 
the Open Meeting Law by meeting, without adequately posting notice, in a closed session 
sometime between July 9, 2010 and July 12, 2010, to discuss and terminate two 
employees. This Office notes the full cooperation of all parties involved, and appreciates 
the well-researched arguments presented by both parties. 	 . 
A threshold question raised by any alleged violation of the OML is whether the 
body being complained against is a "public body" as that term is defmed by the statute. 
Based upon our review of your complaint, the response by Wincam, and other relevant 
material provided by the parties, our office has determined that Wincam is not a public 
body. Accordingly, Wineam is not subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
The Open Meeting Law defines a "public body" in relevant part as "a multiple-
member board, commission, conmiittee or subcommittee within the executive or 
legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, 
elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose..." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18. To determine whether Wincam is a public body subject to the OML, 
there are three factors to consider which apply to all public bodies: 
1. The entity must be "within" government and not excluded from the definition 
of "public body"; 
1 The entity must be a "body," empowered to act collectively; AND 
3. The entity must serve a "public purpose." 

===PAGE 2===
In reaching the conclusion that Wincam is not a public body, we reviewed 
Wincam's organizational structure, its bylaws and its operating procedures in light of the 
factors above. 
First we considered whether Wincam is "within" government. Where an entity is 
not clearly placed within government by law (as Wincam is not), it may still be "within" 
government if the government played a significant role in creating or structuring the 
group, the government has control over the group, and the group primarily performs an 
essentially governmental function. We include only a brief discussion of how Wincam 
satisfies the first two factors, because we conclude that Wincam does not satisfy the third 
factor: performance of an essentially governmental function. 
First, although Wincam is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization, the government 
played a significant role in creating Wincam by requiring its existence in a license 
agreement negotiated with the Town's cable providers. $ee Cable Television License 
Agreement, March 27, 2000, at page 27. Second, a majority of the five members of the 
Board of Directors are appointed by, and removable without cause by, government 
officials (two by the Board of Selectmen and one by the School Superintendent); these 
and other provisions of Wincam's by-laws leave little doubt that Wincam is functionally 
under, the control of Town government. 
The third consideration is whether the group primarily performs an essentially 
governmental function. While Wincam performs a public service, it does not primarily 
perform a governmental function. Wincam does not possess traditional governmental 
powers such as powers to tax, the power to take property by eminent domain, or the 
power to regulate coercively individual group conduct. See District Attorney for  
Northern District v. Board of Trustees of Leonard Morse Hospital,  389 Mass. 729, 733 
(1983). Wincam's primary function does not involve spending (or recommending how to 
spend) public monies to provide governmental services. Wincam does not serve a 
function necessary to government; it provides a service traditionally conducted by the 
private sector. See MBTA Retirement Board v. State Ethics Commission,  414 Mass. 
582, 587 (1993) (finding that whether an entity performs some "essentially governmental 
function" is one of the factors to determine whether that entity is subject to the state 
Conflict of Interest Law, G.L. c. 268A). While Wincam provides a public service by 
providing televised coverage of government meetings, as well as educational and other 
public programming, these services are not essentially a function of government. As the 
Middlesex District Attorney noted in a review of the Framingham Public Access Cable 
Corporation, "[p]ublic television production and education are neither traditional nor 
exclusive roles of government." Middlesex District Attorney Decision Letter May 7, 
2007. Wincam does engage in some arguably governmental functions, including 
maintaining equipment owned by the Town. See  Cable Television License Agreement, 
March 27, 2000, at page 32. However, it is not uncommon for government to contract-
out maintenance functions, and these functions are secondary to Wincam's primary 
function, which is not a governmental function. We conclude that Wincam, as a cable 
access station, does not primarily perform an essentially governmental function. Because 
===PAGE 3===
Wincam is not an entity "within" government, it is not a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law. 
We caution that this analysis is fact dependent. Accordingly, the same analysis of 
different facts may require that we reach a different conclusion, even where the entity in 
question is another Community Cable Access Station, 
I thank you for your patience in waiting as our office reviewed this complaint. 
Please do not hesitate to contact me if you have any further questions. 
Sincerely, 
Britte McBride 
Director 
• Division of Open Government 
cc: Wincam Board of Directors 
Town of Winchester 