===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 19, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 150 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Patrick J. Ahearn, Esq. 
Town Counsel 
Town of Westwood 
pahearn@westwoodma.gov  
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Ahearn: 
 
This office received a complaint from Nada Milosavljevic-Fabrizio on April 25, 2025,
1 
alleging that the Westwood Finance and Warrant Commission (the “Commission”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Commission on or about February 26, and you responded on behalf of the Commission by letter 
dated March 14. The complaint alleges that during its February 25 meeting, the Commission 
violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing a specific warrant article without the meeting 
notice listing the specific warrant article as a topic for discussion.
2 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 In the requestion for further review, the Complainant alleges that the Commission’s chair failed to disseminate a 
copy of the Open Meeting Law complaint and that the Commission failed meet to review the complaint prior to a 
response being issued on behalf of the Commission. Because neither allegation was raised in an original complaint 
filed with the Commission, we decline to review them. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3); see also OML 
2019-99, n. 2. Although we decline to review the allegations, we remind the Commission that within 14 business 
days of receiving an Open Meeting Law complaint, the public body chair must distribute the complaint to all 
members of the body; the body must meet to review the complaint; and the body must then respond to the 
complainant in writing, providing our office with a copy of the complaint and the response. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3), (5). A public body may review a complaint during a meeting and refer the complaint to 
a designee, such as legal counsel, to respond, or a designee may receive the complaint and draft a proposed response 
in advance for the public body to consider and approve during a meeting, but the public body may not remove itself 
entirely from the process. See OML 2020-164.   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, 
the Commission’s response, the request for further review, and the notice for and a video 
recording of the Commission’s February 25 meeting.3 We also reviewed the minutes of the 
Westwood Select Board’s February 24 meeting. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The complaint relates to a citizen’s petition warrant 
article for the spring Annual Town Meeting seeking funds for a yard waste collection day in July 
of 2025. The Commission posted notice for a meeting to be held on February 25 at 7:00 p.m. The 
notice included, among other things, a topic related to warrant articles for the upcoming Annual 
Town Meeting proposed by the Select Board and a topic for warrant articles proposed by the 
Planning Board. The notice did not include a topic regarding citizen petition articles nor a topic 
specifically identifying the yard waste collection article.  
 
On February 24, the Westwood Select Board held a meeting, which the Vice Chair of the 
Commission, Michael Gay, attended. During the meeting the Select Board discussed that the 
Town’s waste management agreement was set to expire in July and that Town staff and the 
company Waste Management were in the process of negotiating a new contract. The Select 
Board further discussed the cost of yard waste collection; having Waste Management provide 
analysis regarding the number of loads of yard waste collected; and the options of adding an 
additional, eleventh, yard waste collection day in July or moving the tenth collection day to July 
and not adding an additional day. Ultimately, the Board voted to add an eleventh yard waste 
collection day. 
 
The Commission held its February 25 meeting as scheduled. Toward the end of the 
meeting, under the topic “Chair’s Update,” Vice Chair Gay noted that he had one more item he 
wanted to mention and which he wanted to discuss more substantively at a future Commission 
meeting. Vice Chair Gay then explained that at the Select Board’s meeting the night before, the 
Select Board discussed matters related to the yard waste collection article. Vice Chair Gay then 
noted the estimated cost for an additional, eleventh, yard waste collection day. He explained that 
the Director of Public Works for the Town was negotiating a new contract with Waste 
Management and that the Director believed he could include in the contract a one-year trial of 
the additional yard waste collection day, paying for the cost of the one-year trial from 
discretionary funds. Vice Chair Gay then explained that he did not think the Town should use 
discretionary funds to pay for the one-year trial and that instead he would prefer to fund the trial 
through another source.  
 
Thereafter, several members of the Commission discussed the additional yard waste 
collection day and how to pay for it. At various points, Vice Chair Gay noted that he did not 
want to have a substantive discussion that evening about the yard waste collection article as the 
individual sponsoring the article, the Chair of the Select Board, was not present at that time. The 
Commission did not take any vote regarding the article or yard waste collection more broadly.  
 
3 A video recording of the Commission’s February 26 meeting can be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AroqhCbY1-c.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to post notice at least 48 hours in advance 
of any meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The 
Open Meeting Law further requires that meeting notices include, among other things, a list of the 
topics that the chair, and any other individual responsible for creating the notice, reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2020-152.
4 A public 
body may discuss, and even vote on, a truly unanticipated topic that has arisen within 48 hours of 
a meeting. See OML 2024-196; OML 2022-100 (public body permissibly discussed an 
unanticipated topic that was raised by a member of the public during public comment, despite the 
topic not being included on the meeting notice); OML 2020-172. However, the Attorney General 
strongly recommends that public bodies postpone discussion and action on unanticipated topics 
that are controversial or may be of particular interest to the public if the topic can wait until a 
subsequent meeting. See OML 2019- 131. 
 
The complaint alleges that during the February 25 meeting, the Commission violated the 
Open Meeting Law by discussing the yard waste collection article without having specifically 
identified the article on the meeting notice. The Complainant does not allege that the topic was 
anticipated more than 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays, prior to the meeting; rather, 
the Complainant alleges only that the topic was discussed without having been included on the 
notice.  
 
The Commission asserts that Vice Chair Gay intentionally did not discuss the article 
during the February 25 meeting but rather discussed the Select Board’s action taken the night 
before and concerns regarding funding an additional day of yard waste collection. Furthermore, 
we understand the Commission to assert that these topics were unanticipated and that the 
discussion that ensued flowed from these unanticipated topics. Based on the information before 
us, we find that the Select Board’s actions from the night before and concerns about funding an 
additional day of yard waste collection were unanticipated topics of discussion. Therefore, the 
Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing those topics despite the topics 
not having been included on the meeting notice.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Commission or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Westwood Finance and Warrant Commission c/o Alison McCarthy, Administrator  
(via email: amccarthy@westwoodma.gov)  
 Dottie Powers, Westwood Town Clerk (via email: dpowers@westwoodma.gov) 
Nada Milosavljevic-Fabrizio  
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
