===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass .go v/ago 
November 18, 2016 
OML 2016- 156 
Edward Coburn, Esq. 
Assistant Commissioner 
Inspectional Services Legal Division 
City of Boston 
1010 Massachusetts Avenue, 4th Floor 
Boston, MA 02108 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Coburn; 
This office received a complaint from Susan Rufo, dated April 22, 2016, alleging that the 
Boston Zoning Board of Appeals (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on January 25, 2016, and legal 
counsel for the Board responded by e-mail dated January 29, 2016.1 In her complaint, Ms. Rufo 
alleges that the Board failed to provide requested open session meeting minutes within the time 
frame required by the Open Meeting Law. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this matter. 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. On November 15, 2016, the 
Board attended an Open Meeting Law training conducted by our office. We acknowledge the 
Board's participation in this training, and believe that the Board members and staff now have a 
clearer understanding of the Law's requirements. We are encouraged by this participation, and 
expect that the Board will comply the Open Meeting Law's requirements moving forward. 
In reaching our determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's 
response, and the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed all 
documentation provided with these filings, including a copy of an envelope sent by the 
complainant to the Board's office, along with a certified mail receipt showing that the envelope 
1 It appears that the Board never met to review the complaint before responding. The Open Meeting Law requires 
that, within 14 business days after receiving an Open Meeting Law complaint, a public body shall review the 
complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the 
complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. 940 CMR 29.05(4); G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). Here, it 
appears that the Board's legal counsel responded to the complainant directly. We take this oppoitunity to remind the 
Board of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General's regulations. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
was received by the Board. Finally, we reviewed the minutes of Board meetings held on 
September 2 and 23, 2014. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On December 18, 2015, the complainant sent a letter to 
Derric Small, Executive Secretary of the Board by certified mail. In this letter, the complainant 
requested copies of the minutes of two meetings held by the Board on September 2 and 23, 
2014.2 The letter was signed for on December 21, 2015 by a staff member other than Mr. Small. 
At the time the complainant filed this complaint with the Board, she had not received the 
requested minutes. 
On January 29, 2016, legal counsel for the Board responded to the complaint by e-mail, 
stating that Mr. Small had left his employment with the Board the previous November. This e-
mail also included, as attachments, the requested minutes of the September 2 and 23, 2014 Board 
meetings. The minutes are handwritten notes on pre-printed forms. Each form contains a 
section labeled "Summary." The handwritten notes are difficult to read, and the legible portions 
do not offer detail of the Board's substantive discussions. 
DISCUSSION 
Public bodies are required to "create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings... 
setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meetings, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a). Minutes of open sessions, whether they exist and whether approved or in draft 
form, must be made available upon request by any person within 10 days. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). 
Here, the complainant requested minutes of the September 2 and 23, 2014 Board 
meetings by letter dated December 18, 2015. The complainant has produced a certified mail 
receipt showing that the letter was signed for by an employee of the Board on December 21, 
2015. While Mr. Small may no longer have been a Board employee at the time the request was 
received, that did not absolve the Board of its obligation to respond to a request for open session 
meeting minutes within ten days. G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(c). Indeed, the Board failed to provide the 
requested minutes until it responded to the Open Meeting Law complaint more than five weeks 
later. This failure violated the Open Meeting Law.3 
While not raised in the original complaint filed with the Board, we note that the minutes 
of the September 2 and 23, 2014 meetings lacked sufficient detail. Minutes should contain 
2 The letter also requested a copy of a Board decision. The Open Meeting Law governs requests for meeting 
minutes but not requests for public records generally. G.L. c. 30A, § 22. Requests for other documents are 
governed by the Public Records Law, G.L. c. 66, § 10, and subject to review by to the Supervisor of Records within 
the Secretary of the Commonwealth's office. Our review concerns only compliance with the Open Meeting Law, 
thus we decline to review the allegation as it pertains to documents other than minutes. See OML 2016-91, n. 2. 
3 We note that the Board had previously been advised by our office of its obligation to make requested minutes 
available within ten days of request. In OML 2015-65, we found that the Board had failed to make requested 
minutes available to this same complainant within the timefi-ame required by the Open Meeting Law. This 
determination was sent to the Board on May 15, 2015 and was delivered on May 18, 2015, several months before 
the December 18, 2015 request at issue in this letter. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could 
read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2014-10; OML 
2013-16.4 Here, the minutes are inadequate to inform the public as to what the Board discussed 
during its September 2 and 23, 2014 meetings. In OML 2015-65, we advised the Board of its 
obligation to create and approve meeting minutes, and we warned that similar future violations 
could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. We note that the Board's use of a pre-
printed form in order to keep minutes does not, in and of itself, violate the Open Meeting Law. 
However, the minutes must be legible and must contain sufficient detail to inform the public of 
what the Board discusses during its meetings. We remind the Board of its obligations under the 
Open Meeting Law, and we strongly encourage the Board to amend its meeting minutes to 
include the required level of detail. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to provide open session meeting minutes within ten days of a request. On November 15, 
the Board attended an Open Meeting Law training conducted by this office. This training had 
been ordered due to an earlier violation of the law that was deemed to be intentional. See OML 
2016-69. Because the Board participated in this training, and because the events addressed in 
this letter took place prior to the training, we order only the Board's immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law. However, we caution the Board that future violations 
will be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. We now consider the complaint 
addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other 
complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact the 
Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Susan Rufo 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
kevin w. ivianganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 