===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
January 20, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 10  
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Susan Girard-Irwin 
Vice-Chair, Truro Select Board 
Truro Town Hall 
24 Town Hall Road 
Truro, MA 02666 
 
sgirard-irwin@truro-ma.gov 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Vice-Chair Girard-Irwin: 
 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty on September 12, 2025, alleging that 
the Truro Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 19, and you responded on behalf of 
the Board by letter dated September 9.
1  The complaint alleges that notices of four Board 
meetings did not meet requirements of the Open Meeting Law and that the Board violated the 
Law when it approved a contract with nonunion personnel in executive session. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting 
insufficiently specific notice of its July 22 meeting.  We also find that the Board violated the 
Law when it approved a contract with nonunion personnel in executive session.  We find that the 
Board did not violate the Law in the other ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, and the request for further 
review.  We also reviewed notices and minutes of meetings the Board held on July 22, July 23, 
August 12, and August 15.  Finally, we reviewed minutes of the meeting of August 26. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours prior to the meeting and that the notice include “the date, time and place of the meeting 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Public bodies are required to list topics on a notice with “sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 
CMR 29.03(1)(b).  We generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a reasonable 
member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public 
body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35; OML 2012-71.2  When reviewing a meeting notice for 
sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting notice 
standing alone.  See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155.  Rather, we review what was actually 
discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently detailed to make the public 
aware of the discussion topics.  The complainant alleges deficiencies in each of four notices.  We 
address each notice in turn. 
 
I. Notice of the July 22 meeting was not sufficiently specific. 
 
Notice of the July 22 meeting included the topic “Discussion and Possible Vote on Policy 
66 Complaint.”  Minutes reflect that the “Policy 66 Complaint” was discussed during the 
meeting.
3  Public bodies should avoid the use of policy codes or acronyms that are not widely 
understood by the public in meeting notices.  See OML 2023-83 (acronym “MASC” standing for 
Massachusetts Association of School Committees and policy codes “BEDH” and “BEDH-E,” 
without context or explanation, were not abbreviations or codes that would be widely understood 
by members of the public); OML 2023-24 (notice topic “A favorable Ordinance Committee 
report: Chapter 7 Ordinance Revisions” was insufficient to reasonably inform the public that the 
public body would discuss salary increases for city councilors and other city officials); OML 
2015-197 (“‘TRRP,’ which stands for ‘Temporary Repair to Private Roads Policy,’ is not widely 
understood by members of the public who are unfamiliar with the Subcommittee’s work.”).  
Because notice of the July 22 meeting did not reasonably inform the public of a topic that was 
discussed, we find the notice insufficiently specific, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.4   
 
 Notice of the July 22 meeting was not insufficient in the other ways alleged in the 
complaint.  The complaint highlights multiple typographical errors, including “Town Hall Ro” 
and “Jih 18 2025.”  We were unable to locate the errors in the notice appended to the complaint.  
Nonetheless, we do not find that these errors rendered the notice insufficiently specific.  In some 
situations, “a seemingly minor typographical error on a meeting notice may significantly impact 
how a reasonable member of the public understands the nature of the topic to be discussed.”  See 
OML 2024-109.  However, this is not one of those situations.  See OML 2024-209 (finding no 
violation where meeting notice referenced an increase in size of restaurant but proposal was to 
decrease it).  Finally, the complainant alleges that notice of the July 22 meeting provided 
insufficient notice of an executive session scheduled for July 23.  Where the July 23 meeting was 
the subject of separate, adequate notice, and the reference to it in the notice of the July 22 
meeting was for informational purposes only, we find no violation.  
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 The minutes provide no explanation of what “Policy 66” is or how it might have been violated.  It appears, based 
on our independent research, that the policy governs communication by and among town employees and volunteers, 
including but not limited to the use of town email accounts, records retention, and social media communication. 
4 We note that the Board has pledged to describe anticipated policy discussions in greater detail going forward.   
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
II. Notice of the July 23 meeting was sufficiently specific. 
 
The sole topic listed on the notice of the July 23 meeting was an executive session to be 
held under G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”): 
 
. . . to discuss strategy in preparation for negotiations with non-union personnel or to 
conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with non-union personnel 
(Town Manager), if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigation 
position of the public body and the chair so declares. 
 
The complainant alleges that this description of the executive session topic is vague and 
insufficiently specific because the notice references collective bargaining, which was not 
anticipated as a topic and was not discussed during the meeting.  The topic also references the 
Board’s “litigation position” (also not discussed) and contains language regarding the 
detrimental effect of an open meeting.  Where the notice makes it clear to the public that the 
Board would discuss contract negotiations with the Town Manager at the meeting, and that is 
indeed what was discussed, we find no violation.  A public body is not required to discuss every 
topic that is listed on a meeting notice.  See OML 2021-91; OML 2018-65; OML 2015-174.  The 
Board did not discuss litigation or collective bargaining; superfluous references to these topics 
do not so detract from the stated purpose of the executive session that a reasonable member of 
the public would not understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. 
 
 The complaint also alleges that the notice imp roperly fails to list an open session and is 
ambiguous about public access to the meeting.  All executive sessions must be preceded by an 
open session that is open and accessible to the public.  The public has a right to witness the 
procedural steps to learn the purpose for the executive session and observe the body’s vote.  See 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(b) (1)-(3); OML 2023-236; OML 2013-195.  When the only business of the 
open session is the procedure for entering executive session, we have explained that public 
bodies must list “Open Session” on the meeting notice.  See OML 2020-47; OML 2013-9; OML 
2012-68.  Without such notice, members of the public are essentially denied the opportunity to 
attend and learn the reasons for the executive session.  See OML 2023-68; OML 2013-195.   
 
 The notice of the July 22 meeting includes the words “Executive Session” in two places 
toward the top and does not include a heading for “Open Session.”  However, the notice does 
include a zoom link, as well as language indicating that the Board will first meet in open session 
“solely for the purpose of moving, as set forth below, to enter into executive session.  The 
meeting will be closed to the public once the Board votes to enter into Executive Session.”  
Although imperfect, this language satisfies the Open Meeting Law.  We recommend that future 
notices explicitly list an open session prior to the executive session.5  Moreover, the Board is 
cautioned not to imply in the notice that the executive session is a foregone conclusion.  The vote 
to enter executive session could fail or the Board could otherwise choose to conduct the 
discussion in open session and the public may wish to attend that open session discussion.  As to 
the remaining allegations concerning public access to the July 23 meeting, the notice includes a 
 
5 Although not raised by the complaint, we note that notice of the August 12 meeting lists an executive session at 
4:00 p.m. and a “regular” meeting at 5:00 p.m., possibly giving the false impression upon casual inspection that the 
public may not join the meeting until 5:00 p.m. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
zoom link, making it accessible to interested members of the public.  Finally, there is nothing 
within the Open Meeting Law that required the Board to broadcast the open session or to explain 
in the notice why it would not be broadcast.6 
 
III. Notice of the August 12 meeting was sufficiently specific. 
 
The complaint alleges that notice of the August 12 executive session was not sufficiently 
specific due to superfluous references to collective bargaining sessions, a litigation position, and 
the detrimental effect of an open session, allegations that also were made about the July 23 
meeting.  For the reasons set forth in Section II above, we find no violation as to this allegation. 
 
The complaint also alleges that notice of the August 12 meeting failed to conform with 
the Open Meeting Law because it included an open session discussion of the Acting Town 
Manager’s performance review, without affording the procedural safeguards established in G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”).  We find no violation.  The Board discussed the performance 
review in open session, as it was required to do,
7 and the rights afforded to the subject of a 
Purpose 1 discussion, including but not limited to 48-hour notice of the meeting, were not 
applicable.8 
 
IV. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law by voting to execute a contract with 
the Town Manager in its August 15 executive session. 
 
A public body may strategize and negotiate with nonunion personnel in executive session 
under Purpose 2.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2); OML 2023-78; OML 2021-187; OML 2011-56.  
The public body may even agree in executive session on terms of a contract with nonunion 
personnel.  However, the scope of Purpose 2 is limited to the discussions, negotiations, and 
deliberations that occur prior to the execution of a contract.  The Open Meeting Law does not 
permit a public body to execute a contract with nonunion personnel behind closed doors; any 
vote to execute an agreed-upon contract must take place in open session.  See OML 2024-52; 
OML 2022-71; OML 2017-65.  By voting to approve the contract with the Town Manager in 
executive session on August 15, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.   
 
6 The complainant also alleged that the Board failed to note the date and time of posting the notice for the July 23 
meeting but withdrew that allegation.  We decline to review the allegation regarding “failure to address minute 
taking and review,” as it is unclear what is being alleged.  Open Meeting Law complaints must allege violations with 
a degree of specificity.  Our office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations.  
See OML 2021-129; OML 2016-57; OML 2012-106. 
7 Purpose 1 allows a public body to convene in executive session “[t]o discuss the reputation, character, physical 
condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or 
dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.”  
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (emphasis added).  Purpose 1 specifically excludes discussions of an individual’s 
professional competence; therefore, it is not appropriate to convene in executive session to conduct performance 
evaluations.  See OML 2024-224; OML 2022-201; OML 2015-40. 
8 Although not raised by the complainant, minutes of the August 12 meeting do not appear to be sufficiently detailed 
relative to the discussion of the performance review (referred to as a “performance summary” in the minutes).  
Minutes note that Member Dundas provided background, but do not summarize that background.  Minutes also note 
(without elaboration) “edits, amendments and corrections” to the performance review.  To the extent that there was 
any discussion of the performance review document or revisions thereto, it should be summarized in the minutes, as 
should the background provided by Member Dundas. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
Without explicitly acknowledging the violation, the Board states in its response that prior 
to receipt of the Open Meeting Law complaint, it was unaware that it could not vote to execute a 
contract with nonunion personnel in executive session.  The Board also states that at its next 
meeting on August 26, it discussed in open session the execution of the contract and held a 
swearing in ceremony for the new Town Manager.  According to the Board, public disclosure of 
the contract on August 26 “resolves any concerns about the vote to execute the contract.” 
 
Violations of the Open Meeting Law may be cured by independent, deliberative action 
that is not merely a ceremonial acceptance and perfunctory ratification of action taken in 
violation of the Law.  See Pearson v. Bd. of Selectmen of Longmeadow, 49 Mass. App. Ct. 119, 
125 (2000); OML 2025-152; OML 2020-7; OML 2016-49.  Generally, that means conducting 
deliberations anew at a subsequent meeting that is accessible to the public and for which proper 
notice is provided.  See OML 2025-152.  The Board could have remedied the violation by voting 
on the contract in open session.  It did not do so.  Moreover, minutes do not support the Board’s 
representation that it discussed the vote at the August 26 meeting.  To the contrary, the Town 
Manager was sworn in immediately following public comment, with no discussion of the 
improper vote.  The failure to address the violation is especially concerning given the Board’s 
admission that the complaint had alerted it to its misunderstanding of the Law.   
 
The Board’s response evidences another misunderstanding of the Law.  As noted above, 
a public body may agree in executive session on terms of a contract with nonunion personnel 
under Purpose 2 but must vote to execute such agreements in open session.  By contrast, 
contracts reached through collective bargaining under Purpose 3 may be approved in executive 
session and then announced in open session.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3); OML 2021-145; OML 
2015-52; OML 2013-84.  The Board’s position that announcing the contract in open session 
remedied the violation conflates Purpose 2 and Purpose 3, one of the chief concerns raised by the 
complainant.   
 
The complainant asks that we nullify any action the Board took in violation of the Law.  
See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c)(3) (providing that upon the finding of a violation, the attorney general 
may issue an order to nullify in whole or in part any action taken at the meeting.)  We decline to 
do so.  Prior to the August 16 swearing in of the Town Manager, the Board had at least put the 
public on notice of negotiations.  We have found nullification appropriate, for example, where 
notice of the Purpose 2 executive session did not even identify the individual with whom 
negotiations were being conducted.  See OML 2024-47 (“The Commission’s simultaneous 
public announcement on May 22 of the director’s retirement and appointment of his successor 
gave the impression of a fait accompli crafted behind closed doors. . . .”).  As to the other 
violations alleged relative to the August 15 meeting,9 we find no violation for the reasons 
discussed above.  
 
9 The complaint alleges that reference to collective bargaining sessions and litigation violated the Law; that 
typographical errors made the notice insufficiently specific; that the notice failed to clearly state that the Board 
would meet in open session; and that language of the notice implied that attendance was limited to members of the 
Board. 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting insufficiently specific notice of its July 22 meeting and by approving a contract with 
nonunion personnel in executive session.  We order the Board’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that future similar violations may be 
considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Ronald Beaty (via em ail: ) 
 Kelly Clark, Truro Town Manager (via email: ksclark@truro-ma.gov) 
 Nicole Tudor, Truro Town Clerk (via email: ntudor@truro-ma.gov) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
