===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL ONE ASHBURTON PLACE BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108  TEL: (617) 727-2200  www.mass.gov/ago  
 May 19, 2020         OML 2020 – 58  James S. Timmins City Solicitor Quincy City Hall 1305 Hancock Street Quincy, MA  02169  By e-mail only: jtimmins@quincyma.gov   RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint Dear Attorney Timmins: This office received a complaint from Eric Salamon on September 17, 2019, alleging that the Quincy Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 13, 2019.  The Board did not respond to this complaint.1  The complaint alleges that the Board approved construction of a FedEx distribution center and area road improvements outside of a properly posted meeting.2    Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the minutes of the Board’s May 11, 2016, June 8, 2016, September 14, 2016, and November 9, 2016, meetings.  In addition, we communicated                                                 1 Because the Board did not respond to the complaint, we relied on materials that could be found on the Quincy municipal website, materials provided to us by the complainant, and newspaper articles issued around the time of the events in question to assist us in resolving this complaint.   2 The complaint also alleges that the Mayor of Quincy held a secret meeting with the real estate developer regarding the FedEx distribution center and that the real estate developer submitted falsified paperwork.  Even if true, these allegations would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law.  First, the Open Meeting Law applies to public bodies and members of such bodies.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  Individual public officials, such as the Mayor, are not public bodies and therefore, he is not subject to the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2012-28; OML Declination 7-5-16 (Town of Wilmington).  Second, the Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance only with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  As such, we decline to review and offer no opinion on whether any actions taken by the Mayor or the real estate developer could be a violation of some other law or regulation outside the scope of the Division’s review.  See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners).    
===PAGE 2===
2  
with the complainant by email on December 2, 2019, and January 17, 2020, and spoke with him by telephone on April 16, 2020.   FACTS  During a May 11, 2016, meeting, the Board opened a public hearing to consider a Site Plan Review application from Scannell Properties, a real estate developer, to renovate a warehouse located on Commander Shea Boulevard in the City of Quincy.  The renovations would allow the applicant to lease the warehouse to FedEx as a distribution center and included updates to the building’s exterior siding, windows and signage.  The Board discussed the proposed changes with the applicant’s attorney and architect.  The Board then unanimously voted to continue the public hearing to June 8, 2016.    During the June 8, 2016, meeting, the Board did not discuss the FedEx distribution center project but simply continued the public hearing to September 14, 2016, at the request of the applicant’s attorney.    During the September 14, 2016, meeting, the Board heard from members of the public, including the complainant, regarding the FedEx distribution center project on Commander Shea Boulevard.  The Board read a letter from the applicant’s attorney asking that the matter once again be continued.  The Board then discussed its authority to grant the continuance or instead require that the application be withdrawn and resubmitted.  Deputy Planning Director Robert Stevens explained some of the broader complexities of the project and the reasons for the continued delay of the project and need for continuances, including pending roadway improvements that were under review by the City Solicitor’s Office.  Deputy Planning Director Stevens stated that these roadway projects were outside the scope of the Site Plan Review application that was currently before the Board.  The Board continued the public hearing to November 9, 2016.    During the November 9, 2016, meeting, the Board considered a request from Scannell Properties to withdraw its application to renovate the warehouse on Commander Shea Boulevard for a FedEx distribution center.  The Board unanimously voted to accept the withdrawal.  To date, Scannell Properties has not resubmitted an application.  On July 22, 2019, the complainant received a Construction Notice from the Quincy Commissioner of Public Works advising residents that updates and improvements would be made to Commander Shea Boulevard and surrounding streets beginning on July 29, 2019.  The notice indicated that the improvements would be done by both the City and the developer of the FedEx distribution center.    Deputy Planning Director Stevens told the Patriot Ledger in late July 2019 that the warehouse on Commander Shea Boulevard was originally approved and built as a distribution facility for Jordan Marsh back in the 1970s.  According to Mr. Stevens, because distribution was already an approved, existing permitted use for the property, the applicant was allowed to proceed to the building permit phase without needing approval from the Board.   
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Law requires that meetings of a pubic body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.  
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a) -(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by 
a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The 
law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority 
of the members of a public body.  Id.  
 
The complainant suggests that the Board must have discussed the FedEx distribution 
center project outside of a properly posted meeting in order to approve the Commander Shea 
Boulevard street construction, which was set to begin on July 29, 2019.  Our office does not 
conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations.  See OML 2013-180; 
OML 2012-106.3  We are not persuaded that a letter from the Commissioner of Public Works, 
who is not a member of the Board and is not subject to the Open Meeting Law, advising 
residents of upcoming roadway construction is a specific enough allegation of a violation of the 
law, let alone evidence that a quorum of the Board discussed the FedEx distribution center 
project outside of a properly posted meeting.  See, e.g., OML 2016-27; OML 2016-15 (a 
speaker's use of the plural, standing alone, is insufficient to demonstrate that deliberation 
occurred outside of a meeting).  Moreover, as stated during the September 14, 2016, Board 
meeting, any roadway improvements related to the project did not require the Board’s approval 
as they were outside the scope of the Site Plan Application that was pending before the Board.   
 
With respect to the complainant’s concerns that the Board approved renovations or 
construction to the warehouse on Commander Shea Boulevard outside of a properly posted 
meeting, we have reviewed minutes from Board meetings held in 2017, 2018 and 2019 and do 
not find that the FedEx distribution center project was further discussed by the Board or that the 
matter was brought before the Board at any time after the Site Plan Review application was 
withdrawn in November 2016.  Rather, Deputy Planning Director Stevens recently explained to a 
local newspaper that because use as a distribution center was a preexisting permitted use for the 
property, further approval from the Board was unnecessary.  We find no evidence that a quorum 
of the Board deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting and discussed either roadway 
improvements or construction of a FedEx distribution center, and therefore find that the Board 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2016-58. 
 
Although not raised in the complaint, we take this opportunity to advise the Board that 
the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, the public 
body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send 
to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the 
                                                
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  Here, the Board did not respond to the complaint and we 
remind the Board of its obligations under the Law.  Moreover, we reached out to the Board in 
October 2019 and April 2020 and to you in January 2020 but received no response.  “Upon 
notification of an investigation, any person, public body or any other state, regional, county, 
municipal or other governmental official or entity who is the subject of an investigation, shall 
make all information necessary to conduct such investigation available to the attorney general.”  
G.L. c. 30A, § 24(a).  A failure to respond to such a request from our office may be considered a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Eric Salamon – By e-mail only:  
Quincy Planning Board c/o Deputy Planning Director Robert Stevens –  
By e-mail only: rstevens@quincyma.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
