===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 8, 2015 
OML 2015-183 
Carolyn Smart, Chair 
Townsend Board of Selectmen 
272 Main Street 
Townsend, MA 01469 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr, Clark: 
This office received a complaint from Veronica Kell on September 21,1 alleging that 
the Townsend Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about August 18, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, to the complaint by letter dated September 3.2 In her 
complaint, Ms. Kell alleges that during its August 11 meeting, the Board discussed and voted 
on a topic that was not listed on a notice at least 48 hours before the meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notice of and minutes from the Board's August 11 meeting. Finally, in October 
we spoke individually by telephone with Board members Carolyn Smart and Gordon Clark, as 
well as with Town Administrator Andrew Sheehan. 
We find the facts as follows. During its July 22 meeting, the Townsend Conservation 
Commission (the Commission) voted to recommend that the Board appoint Michael Turgeon 
to the Commission "pending a decision.. .that there would be no conflict of interest." The 
Board then voted to appoint Mr. Turgeon to the Commission during its August 11 meeting. 
The original notice for the Board's August 11 meeting, posted by the Town Clerk on August 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
4, did not list this appointment as a topic for discussion. The Conservation Agent had advised 
the Town Administrator, who drafted the Board's meeting notice along with then-Chair Colin 
McNabb,3 that Mr. Turgeon's appointment to the Commission was contingent upon Mr. 
Turgeon confirming with the State Ethics Commission that his private employment would not 
create a conflict of interest. Having received no further information concerning this 
contingency, the Town Administrator and the Chair did not add this topic to the notice. 
Then, either on the day of the August 11 meeting or the day before,4 Board member 
Gordon Clark, who had attended the July 22 Commission meeting on this topic, advised the 
Town Administrator that the appointment was not contingent on Mr. Turgeon obtaining an 
opinion from the State Ethics Commission. Accordingly, the Town Administrator conveyed 
this information to then-Chair McNabb, who added the topic to the notice on the day of the 
meeting.5 During the meeting, the Board voted to appoint Mr. Turgeon to the Commission. 
Following this complaint, the Board re-affirmed its vote during its September 1 meeting. The 
Board listed this topic on the meeting notice as, "Discuss the recommendation of the 
Conservation Commission to appoint Michael Turgeon to the Conservation Commission and 
ratify the appointment made on August 11, 2015." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post timely notice for meetings, 
listing all topics the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b); 940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b). A public body may discuss a topic that was not included in the meeting 
notice if the chair did not reasonably anticipate the discussion of that topic 48 hours in 
advance of the meeting. See id.; OML 2012-3; OML 2011 -13.6 The Board's Chair at the 
time these events occurred did not anticipate discussing the Commission appointment at the 
August 11 meeting until he heard from the Town Administrator on the day of the meeting, or 
the day before, notifying him that the appointment could be made without waiting for a State 
Ethics Commission opinion. We therefore find that, because the discussion was not 
anticipated 48 hours in advance, the Board was not required to list this topic in its meeting 
notice. See id. However, we remind the Board that this office strongly encourages public 
bodies to postpone discussion and action on topics that may be of particular interest to the 
public if those topics were not listed in the meeting notice at least 48 hours before the 
meeting. See OML 2013-61. 
3 Mr. McNabb was unavailable for an interview with our office. 
4 The Town Administrator and Mr. Clark were unable to determine the specific date on which this occurred. 
5 We remind the Board that it may not use a non-member, such as the Town Adminisfrator, to communicate on 
matters that the Board would otherwise save for discussion at an open meeting. See District Attorney for the 
Northern District v. School Board of Wavland. 455 Mass. 561, 570-571 (2009) ("Governmental bodies may not 
circumvent the requirements of the open meeting law by conducting deliberations via private messages, whether 
electronically, in person, over the telephone, or in any other form."). 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at: https://www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Veronica Kell 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 