===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
July 25, 2011 
OML 2011 — 33 
Michael P. McCarron 
Town Counsel 
381 Main St. 
West Newbury, MA 01985 
Dear Mr. McCarron, 
Our office has reviewed a complaint filed by Mr. David Kapturowski, dated April 14, 
2011, alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by the West 
Newbury Board of Selectmen (the "Board"). The complaint alleges that a "quorum of members 
of the Board of Selectmen appeared to have participated in a serial consensus process (possibly 
through a third party) outside of a public meeting relative to a Citizen's petition to reduce the 
Community Preservation Act surcharge from 3% to 0.5%." The complaint was originally filed 
with the Board on March 25, 2011. We received the Board's response to the original complaint 
dated April 14, 2011. 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In making our 
determination, we reviewed the March 25, 2011 and April 14, 2011 complaints and the April 14, 
2011 response. We reviewed the notice and minutes for the Board's March 23, 2011 meeting. 
We spoke with the complainant by telephone on April 28, 2011, and reviewed a video recording 
of the Board's March 30, 2011 meeting at the complainant's request. Finally, we reviewed 
copies of a citizens' petition for a Town Meeting warrant article bearing twenty signatures, 
provided by the complainant. 
FACTS  
From the information we reviewed, we understand the facts to be as follows. Sometime 
in early March, Mr. William Bachrach, a member of the West Newbury Finance Committee, 
distributed a citizen's petition to add a warrant article to reduce the Community Preservation Act 
surcharge from 3.0% to 0.5%, for consideration at the April 25, 2011 West Newbury Town 
Meeting. Mr. Bachrach, or other individuals assisting him, collected signatures on a single page 
from twenty citizens of West Newbury to petition the Board of Selectmen to place the article on 
1 
===PAGE 2===
the warrant for the Annual Town Meeting. Included among the twenty signatures are the names 
of two of the three members of the Board at the time: Glenn Kemper and Thomas Atwood. 
According to the Board's response to the complaint—which was attested to in writing by 
William Bachrach as being consistent with his knowledge of the facts—Mr. Bachrach took the 
citizen's petition to the personal residences of Selectmen Glenn Kemper and Thomas Atwood. 
Each of them signed the petition at their residence. The complaint does not allege that the two 
Selectmen had any direct communications with each other regarding the petition, except to the 
extent that signing the petition might be considered a communication. 
The Board reviewed the petition at its March 23, 2011 open meeting and approved the 
petition's request to add the article to reduce the Community Preservation Act surcharge from 
3.0% to 0.5% to the warrant for the April 25, 2011 Town Meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to hold a meeting whenever a quorum of 
the public body engages in a deliberation. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20. A "deliberation" is defined as 
"an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 18. A public body may not engage in a serial communication whereby a quorum 
communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting, on a particular subject 
matter within the public body's jurisdiction. See McCrea v. Flaherty,  71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 
(2008). A quorum is measured as a majority of the members of the public body, unless 
otherwise provided for by law. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
The complaint alleges that a "quorum of members of-the Board of Selectmen appeared to 
have participated in a serial consensus process (possibly through a third party) outside of a public 
meeting relative to a Citizen' s petition to reduce the Community Preservation Act surcharge 
from 3% to 0.5%." The Board has three members; therefore, a quorum of the Board is two 
members. From our telephone conversation with the complainant, we understand the allegation 
to be that the act of signing the petition was a serial communication between the two members, 
facilitated by Mr. Bachrach when he brought the petition to each Selectman's residence. 
The Board members did not engage in an unlawful deliberation by signing a citizen's 
petition. By signing the same citizen's petition, the Board members did not engage in "an oral or 
written communication... between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business 
within its jurisdiction" outside of an open meeting. G.L. c. 30A, §18. The Board members 
added their own signatures to a citizen's petition. They did not sign with the understanding that 
other Board members would be signing or considering the issue. Specifically, we fmd no 
evidence that either member knew or should have known that the fact of his signature would be 
communicated to the other member outside of an open meeting. Thus, there was no unlawful 
communication "between and among" the quorum. From our review of the Board's response 
and Mr. Bachrach's attestation to its accuracy, as well as our telephone conversation with the 
complainant, we find no reason to believe that the two Board members who signed the petition 
engaged in any communication, serial or otherwise, in their capacities as Selectmen when 
signing the citizen's petition. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Sincerely 
nathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
The Board's April 14, 2011 response to the complaint asserts that the Board members' 
act of signing the petition "is a civil right protected by the First Amendment to the United States 
Constitution and Article XIX of the Constitution of the Commonwealth." The Board further 
argues that the "act of signing a citizen's petition is outside the jurisdiction of a Board of 
Selectmen." Because we find no unlawful communication occurred, and thus no unlawful 
deliberation, we need not decide whether Board members' signing a petition is protected by the 
state and federal constitutions or whether signing the petition was an act within the jurisdiction 
of the Board. 
We now consider this complaint resolved and this matter closed. Please contact me if 
you have any questions or believe any of the facts presented to be inaccurate. 
cc: Mr. David Kapturowski 
3 