===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
       November 13 , 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 214 
 
 
Joseph W. Proctor, Esq. 
Murphy Hesse Toomey & Lehane  
50 Braintree Hill Office Park 
Braintree, Massachusetts 02184 
 
By email only: jproctor@mhtl.com  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Proctor: 
 
This office received a complaint from Katherine Connolly on May 16, 2024, alleging that 
the Holbrook Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 15, and you responded, on 
behalf of the Board, by letter dated June 6.2  The complaint alleges that the Board hired an 
Assistant Town Administrator without voting to approve the employment contract and the Board 
Chair made an inaccurate statement during a meeting held on April 10, 2024.    
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in a
 ccordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complaint 
filed with our office requesting further review.  In addition, we reviewed the notices and video 
recordings of the Board meetings held on March 27 and April 24, as well as a video recording of 
the Board meeting held on April 10.
3  We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the ways alleged. 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2024. 
2 We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, 
the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the 
complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of 
the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).   
3 A video recording of the March 27 meeting is available at https://reflect-
holbrook.cablecast.tv/CablecastPublicSite/show/5266?site=1; a video recording of the April 10 meeting is available 
at https://reflect-hol brook.cablecast.tv/CablecastPublicSite/show/5293?site=1; and a video recording of the April 24 
meeting is available at https://reflect-hol brook.cablecast.tv/CablecastPublicSite/show/5313?site=1.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The complaint here takes issue with the Board’s process for hiring Anne Mahoney, the 
Assistant Town Administrator, suggesting that Ms. Mahoney began employment with the Town 
prior to the Board actually approving her contract.  During a meeting held on March 27, the 
Board voted to appoint Ms. Mahoney subject to successful contract negotiations.  On April 8, 
Ms. Mahoney began working for the Town of Holbrook as the Assistant Town Administrator.  
During a meeting held on April 10, a Board member expressed his concern that Ms. Mahoney 
began employment with the town prior to the Board actually seeing or discussing the contract.  
Chair Goldrick explained that the Board voted at the March 27 meeting to approve the contract 
contingent upon successful negotiations.  During a meeting held on April 24, the Board approved 
Ms. Mahoney’s contract by majority vote in open session. 
 
The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, 18-25.  That the Board may have appointed Ms. Mahoney to the position of 
Assistant Town Administrator without an actual contract in place or that she began employment 
with the Town prior to the Board actually approving the contract does not constitute a violation 
of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML Declination 9-19-16 (Dartmouth Select Board).
4  We offer 
no opinion on whether the actions taken by the Board constitute sound practice or whether they 
could be a violation of town bylaws or regulations, or some other law outside the scope of the 
Division’s review.  
 
The complaint also alleges that Chair Goldrick made an untrue statement during the April 
10 mee
ting when she declared that the Assistant Town Administrator’s contract had been 
approved in open session during the March 27 meeting.  While the Division of Open 
Government encourages honesty and candor during all meetings, we do not review statements 
made by individuals to determine their veracity.  See OML 2015-133.  Therefore, even if true, 
this would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2017-89; OML 
Declination 7-20-17 (Edgartown Planning Board).    
 
For t
he reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations and declination letters may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
cc: Katherine Connolly – By e- mail only:  
Holbrook Select Board c/o Chair Katie Goldrick – By email only: 
kgoldrick@holbrookmassachusetts.us 
Holbrook Town Clerk – By email only: town_clerk@holbrookmassachusetts.us  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
