===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.sov/aao 
May 15,2017 
OML 2017-77 
Scituate Board of Selectmen 
do Patricia A. Vinchesi 
Town Administrator 
600 Chief Justice Gushing Highway 
Scituate, MA 02066 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Vinchesi: 
This office received a complaint from Jeffrey Clemens on March 9, 2017 alleging 
that the Scituate Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 3, 
2017 and Police Chief W. Michael Stewart responded on behalf of the Board by letter 
dated February 15, 2017. The complaint alleges that the Board entered into executive 
session for an improper purpose on April 5, April 26, and May 10.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed the notices of and open session minutes from the Board's 
April 5, April 26, and May 10 meetings, as well as the executive session minutes from 
the Board's April 26 and May 10 meetings. Finally, we spoke with Town Administrator 
Patricia Vinchesi by telephone on March 30, 2017. 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 The complaint also appears to allege that the Board failed to provide copies of executive session meeting 
minutes in response to a request. Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed 
with the public body within 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). Here, the request for 
executive session minutes was made in September 2016 but a complaint was not filed with the Board until 
February 2017. Because the complaint was filed with the Board five months after the request, we find this 
portion of the complaint to be untimely and decline to review it. 
Ci 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. In May 2011, Jeffrey Clemens was convicted and 
imprisoned for sending emails threatening to harm Town Administrator Patricia Vinchesi 
and an attorney representing the Town of Scituate. 
On March 31, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on Tuesday, April 
5 at 7:00 P.M. The notice included the following executive session topic: "To discuss the 
deployment of security personnel or devices or strategies with respect thereto, a. Drug 
Enforcement, b. Clemens." The April 5 meeting was held as planned. The Board did 
not discuss Mr. Clemens during open session and the Board did not enter executive 
session that evening. 
On April 12, Mr. Clemens entered Town Hall to obtain documents. On April 13, 
Police Chief Stewart handed Mr. Clemens a Notice of No Trespass prohibiting him from 
entering Town Hall. 
On April 21, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on Tuesday, April 
26 at 7:00 P.M. The notice included the following executive session topics: "To discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body - Fire" and 
"To discuss the deployment of security personnel or devices or strategies with respect 
thereto. - Clemens." The April 26 meeting was held as planned. Prior to convening in 
executive session, the Board approved a motion to enter into executive session for the 
exact purposes stated on the notice. The Board then approved a unanimous vote by roll 
call to convene in executive session. Because the Board has not publicly released the 
minutes of this executive session, we do not recount their content in detail here. 
However, we note that the Board discussed benefit packages and working conditions for 
the fire union and the security of Town Hall. 
On May 6, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on Tuesday, May 10 
at 7:00 P.M. The notice included the following executive session topics: "To consider 
the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property. - Greenbush" and "To discuss the 
deployment of security personnel or devices or strategies with respect thereto." Prior to 
convening in executive session, the Board approved a motion to enter into executive 
session for the exact purposes stated on the notice. The Board then approved a 
unanimous vote by roll call to convene in executive session. Because the Board has not 
publicly released the minutes of this executive session, we do not recount their content in 
detail here. However, we note that the Board discussed drug enforcement and the sale of 
land at the Greenbush parking lot. 
DISCUSSION 
The complaint challenges the propriety of the Board's executive session 
discussions on April 5, April 26 and May 10. The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to 
eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding deliberation and decisions on which public 
policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 
2 
===PAGE 3===
(1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted 
in an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies 
may enter a closed, executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes, provided that it 
has first convened in an open session, that the purpose for the executive session has been 
stated in open session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into 
executive session, and that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered 
into the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b). 
The Board did not convene in executive session on April 5, and we find no 
evidence that "an informal and unofficial" meeting occurred as the complaint alleges. 
When a public body does not actually deliberate on a noticed topic, the public body 
cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to that topic. See OML 2015-63; 
OML 2014-81.3 
The Board did convene in executive session on April 26 and May 10. One 
permissible reason to convene in executive session is "to discuss the deployment of 
security personnel or devices, or strategies with respect thereto." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(4). 
Purpose 4 enables a public body to discuss privately those matters involving public safety 
or the security of public property when it believes that publicly disclosing security 
measures would compromise their effectiveness. We find that the Board's discussions in 
executive session on April 26 and May 10 were proper under this purpose. Mr. Clemens, 
who had sent a threatening email to the Town Administrator as well as a town attorney, 
was seen in Town Hall on April 12. The Scituate Town Hall, where the Town 
Administrator works, has limited security. The discussions during the Board's April 26 
executive session meeting were limited to the security of Town Hall and the safety of 
town hall employees as well as members of the public in light of the threats made by Mr. 
Clemens. The discussions during the Board's May 10 executive session related solely to 
strategy with respect to the Scituate Police Department's response to drug activity in the 
town. 
Except when meeting in executive session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1), the 
Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to provide additional notice of 
meetings to specific individuals or groups of individuals for topics discussed during a 
meeting. See OML 2013-41; OML 2011 -41. Here, the Board was not required to 
provide Mr. Clemens with notice or the opportunity to be present during executive 
session discussions about security in which he may have been discussed. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by meeting in 
executive session on April 26 to discuss the security and safety of Town Hall and its 
employees, and by meeting in executive session on May 10 to discuss drug enforcement. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Jeffrey Clemens 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt 
of a final order. 
4 