===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
November 4, 2019 
OML 2019-139
Aubrey Buono
Chair, Millville Finance Committee 
Town Hall 
390 Main Street 
Millville, MA 01529
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Ms. Buono:
This office received a complaint from Diane Lockwood on April 25 alleging that the 
Millville Finance Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A,
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on March 26, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated April 8. The complaint alleges that the 
Committee discussed a topic during its February 27 meeting that was not listed on the notice.
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We 
also reviewed the notice and open session minutes of the Committee’s February 27 meeting, the 
open session minutes of the Committee’s April 3 meeting, as well as video recordings of the 
February 27 and April 3 meetings.2
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. On February 20, the Committee posted notice for a meeting 
to be held on February 27 at 6:30 P.M. The notice included six topics, two of which were New 
Business and Old Business. Under Old Business, the notice listed seven specific topics, one of 
which was “Town Financial Statements.” Under New Business, the notice listed one specific 
topic relating to the appointment of a Committee member to the Regional Agreement 
Amendment Committee.
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2019.
2 The video recording of the February 27 meeting is located at https://www.voutube.com/watch?v=G5PBBbD4kvs: 
and the video recording of the April 3 meeting is located at https://www.voutube.com/watch?v=cNnv8rJ-5xO.

===PAGE 2===
On February 22, the Committee revised the notice to include one additional topic under 
Old Business, which was “Open Requests from Departments/ Accounting,” and one additional 
topic under New Business, which was “$880,000 BOS override ballot question.”
The February 27 meeting was held as planned. Chair Aubrey Buono opened the meeting 
by reading a two-page statement regarding her frustration with both the Board of Selectmen (the 
“Board”) and Town Accountant and their lack of response to her requests for specific financial 
information. She further stated that she called the Department of Revenue Division of Local 
Services and learned that numerous mandated reports have not been filed with the state for the 
past two years. Finally, she expressed her concern with an $880,000 override that the Board 
approved the prior week. Committee Member Gary Gill then expressed his frustration with the 
“Committee’s failed efforts to retrieve basic financial information requested” from “the Town of 
Millville elected or employed officials.”
After these statements, the Committee discussed the noticed topics, including pending 
requests for information and financial statements from the Town Accountant, the FY2020 budget 
and how to best present it to residents, and the $880,000 override ballot question. During the 
discussion of the override ballot question, three Committee members expressed their 
disappointment in the Board’s approval of the override and its lack of communication with the 
Committee with respect to that decision.
During an April 3 meeting, the Committee met with members of the Blackstone Millville 
Regional School District School Committee and discussed its budget, reviewed the Town of 
Millville’s FY2020 budget department by department for approximately two hours, reviewed the 
Open Meeting Law complaint filed by the complainant, and approved meeting minutes. During 
the discussion of the Open Meeting Law complaint, Chair Buono stated that the revised notice 
posted on February 22 included three specific topics that were raised in the statement she read at 
the February 27 meeting; those topics were “Town Financial Statements,” “Open Requests from 
Departments/ Accounting,” and “$880,000 BOS override ballot question.” Chair Buono further 
explained that she did not intend to read a statement during the February 27 meeting and only 
wrote the statement two hours before the meeting.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and that every 
notice include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies 
must list topics for discussion with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to 
include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35; OML 
2012-71; OML 2011-44.3
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
The complaint alleges that the Committee discussed topics during its February 27 
meeting that were not posted on the notice, specifically the statement read by Chair Buono at the 
beginning of the meeting and the subsequent comments by Mr. Gill. The Committee contends 
that the statements by Chair Buono and Mr. Gill “were sufficiently covered on the agenda” 
because they fell within three topics that were posted on the notice - “Open Requests from 
Departments/Accounting,” “Town Financial Statements,” and “$880,000 BOS override ballot 
question.” We agree that Chair Buono’s statement was not specifically listed on the notice as a 
separate topic. However, a public body may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the 
topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting. See OML 2017-2; 
OML 2013-87. Here, Chair Buono specifically stated that she did not intend to read a statement 
during the February 27 meeting and only drafted her statement two hours before the meeting. As 
such, the chair was not required to separately list the statement on the meeting notice as it was 
not a reasonably anticipated topic. See OML 2015-195; OML 2015-4. Moreover, we conclude 
that the discussions that arose as a result of the chair’s statement were related to several topics 
listed on the February 27 meeting notice 48 hours prior to the meeting, including “Open 
Requests from Departments/Accounting” and “880,000 BOS override ballot question.” As such, 
we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law.
The complaint further suggests that the Committee failed to notify the Board and Town 
Accountant that they would be discussed during the meeting. Except when meeting in executive 
session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1), the Open Meeting Law does not require public 
bodies to provide additional notice of meetings to specific individuals or groups of individuals 
for topics discussed during a meeting. See OML 2013-41; OML 2011-41. Because the 
Committee discussed the Board and Town Accountant in open session, it was not required to 
personally notify either of them that it would be discussing them. See OML 2017-18. Thus, the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to provide individual notice to the 
Board or Town Accountant.
Although not raised in the complaint, we note that the Committee’s April 3 meeting 
minutes do not appear to be sufficiently detailed. The Open Meeting Law requires that a public 
body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting 
forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on 
each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and 
the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See 
OML 2016-105. Based on our review of the April 3 minutes and the video recording of the 
April 3 meeting, we note that the minutes appear inadequate to meet the standard required by the 
Open Meeting Law because they do not offer a sufficiently detailed summary of the Committee’s 
three-hour discussions, especially with respect to the Committee’s approximately two-hour 
discussion of the FY2020 budget. We recommend that the Committee amend its April 3 meeting 
minutes in accordance with the requirements of G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.
3

===PAGE 4===
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions.
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Diane Lockwood
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
