===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
April 20, 2018 
OML 2018-56 
Andrew Stern, General Counsel 
Group Insurance Commission 
19 Stamford Street 
Boston, MA 02114 
RE: Open Meeting Law Investigation 
Dear Attorney Stern: 
The Attorney General's Office initiated an investigation of the seventeen-member 
Commission (the "Commission") that oversees the Group Insurance Commission (the "GIC") 
based on reasonable cause to believe that the Commission had violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G. L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, in connection with the notice for the Commission's January 18, 2018 
meeting.1 See G.L. c. 30A, § 24(a). We notified you of this investigation by letter, dated 
January 25, 2018. We appreciate your cooperation and that of the Commission and its staff with 
this investigation. 
Following our review, we have determined that the Commission's January 18, 2018 
meeting notice violated the Open Meeting Law because it did not contain the level of detail 
required under the statute and regulations. We understand that in the aftermath of the January 
28, 2018 meeting, including extensive public criticism of the Commission's decision-making 
process, the Commission rescinded the principal action taken during the meeting, namely, a vote 
to adopt a new group of health plan providers available to state employees, which eliminated 
certain nonprofit providers. As no remedial action is necessary to address the violation, we offer 
this letter as guidance to the Commission for its future activities. 
In making this determination, we reviewed the notices, minutes, and Commission packets 
for meetings held on the following dates; April 13, 2017; July 27, 2017; September 7, 2017; 
October 19, 2017; November 16, 2017; December 19, 2017; and January 18, 2018. On March 
1 We used the term "Commission" to refer to the seventeen-member governing body, and the term "GIC" to refer to 
the agency that body oversees. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
27, 2018, we interviewed Commission Chair Valerie Sullivan and GIC Executive Director Dr. 
Roberta Herman. 
FACTS 
The GIC is a state agency governed by a seventeen-member Commission appointed by 
the Governor. The GIC is tasked with providing and administering health insurance and other 
benefits to the Commonwealth's employees and retirees, as well as their dependents and 
survivors. See G.L. c. 32A. The GIC provides health insurance and other benefit options to 
more than 251,000 enrollees and 442,000 members. 
The Health Benefits Provider Procurement Process 
During a meeting held on July 27, 2017, the Commission discussed its health care 
benefits provider procurement process and set a timeline with a final decision on future health 
plan providers to be made by the Commission at a January 2018 meeting. During the 
Commission's September 7, 2017 meeting, GIC staff reported that bids from potential medical 
benefits providers would be due on September 25, 2017, and that the staff would evaluate the 
proposals from October 2, 2017 to November 10, 2017, with a recommendation to be provided to 
the Commission at its January 18, 2018 meeting. Several Commission members expressed 
concern about a lack of opportunity for public input before the Commission would make its 
decision. 
The staff provided the Commission an update on the procurement process during its 
December 18, 2017 meeting, though it discussed only procurement of pharmacy-benefit 
providers, and not procurement of health-care-benefit providers. 
On January 12, 2018, GIC Chief of Staff Ashley Maagero Lee sent an email to the 
Commission members with an agenda for the Commission's January 18, 2018 meeting. In that 
email, she wrote that, "[djuring the session, we will cover the following agenda. Please note that 
due to the sensitive nature of our procurement decisions, materials may be distributed closer to 
the meeting than normal. To this end, we will be sure to cover them in full detail so that you can 
make a well-informed decision." 
The January 18. 2018 Commission Notice and Meeting 
The Commission posted notice to its website on January 12, 2018, for its January 18, 
2018 meeting, listing, as had Ms. Maagero Lee in her email to Commission members, agenda 
topics that included: 
IV. Procurement: 
o Medical/Behavioral Health Decision - VOTE 
• Commercial 
- Medicare 
V. Public Hearings 
VI. OOP Report 
2 
===PAGE 3===
On January 17, 2018, Ms. Maagero Lee sent an email to the Commission members 
attaching the materials for discussion at the next day's Commission meeting, including the staffs 
procurement recommendations. In the email, Ms. Maagero Lee wrote, "Please find attached our 
materials for tomorrow's commission meeting. As a reminder, please do not distribute the deck 
nor discuss its contents until after the meeting. Also, as a gentle reminder, should you receive 
any media inquiries from reporters about the procurement, please abstain from comment and 
refer them to me." 
The Commission held its January 18, 2018 meeting as planned. During the meeting. Dr. 
Herman presented the conclusions of GIC staff charged with conducting the procurement 
process. Under their proposal, the number of traditional health plan carriers would be reduced, 
with two carriers being eliminated: Harvard Pilgrim Health Care and Fallon. Dr. Herman stated 
that the goal would be for GIC subscribers to keep access to their current physicians and 
hospitals with comparable coverage and benefits after any plan migration. 
Following the presentation, the Commission members discussed the proposal, with 
several raising concerns about the lack of public involvement and input prior to the Commission 
making a decision. Several Commission members specifically pointed to the lack of ability to 
share information about the proposed procurement decision prior to the meeting. While the 
Commission discussed this issue. Dr. Herman stated that if, the Commission did not vote to 
proceed that day, it would likely have to maintain the status quo with respect to all current 
earners. Ms. Maagero Lee explained to the Commission that, during the recent pharmacy 
procurement process, when materials were distributed five days in advance of the Commission 
meeting, there had been some issues with certain parties gaining information before the decision 
had been announced at the Commission meeting. Learning from that, she continued, the GIC 
staff decided to release the materials later, after phone calls to key stakeholders had been made. 
After the Commission concluded its discussion of the proposal, Chair Sullivan made a 
motion to accept the recommendations subject to the proviso that the primary goals of price and 
maintaining provider relationships are met. The Commission voted with eight in favor, five 
opposed and two abstentions, thereby adopting the proposal. The Commission then discussed 
nine upcoming public hearings organized to elicit feedback from the public and GIC members 
regarding Commission decisions. The Commission then decided not to discuss the Out Of 
Pocket Report due to a lack of time, and voted to adjourn the meeting. 
Upon the public announcement of the Commission's decision to reduce the number of 
health plan earners, there was extensive public criticism of the Commission's process, including 
complaints that insureds and other members of the public had not been advised properly that the 
Commission would be voting on January 18, 2018, to take such actions. We note that the Board 
revisited its vote at its February 1, 2018 meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post 
3 
===PAGE 4===
notice of each meeting "at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays" and that every notice include "the date, time and place of such meeting and a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 
3 OA, § 20(b). Public bodies must list topics for discussion with "sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(I)(b). 
We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the 
public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. 
See OML 2015-35; OML 2012-71; OML 2011-44.2 
The notice for the Commission's January 18, 2018 meeting listed a topic as: 
"Procurement: o Medical/Behavioral Health Decision - VOTE." Commission Chair Sullivan 
intended that topic to reflect the Commission's anticipated discussion and vote to select health 
care benefit providers. To anyone following closely the Commission's activities throughout its 
procurement process, this listing may have provided sufficient notice that the Commission would 
be making its selection of specific health care insurance providers. However, a meeting notice 
must be sufficiently detailed to reasonably advise a member of the public who may not have the 
background of information and context to understand the otherwise sparse notice topic. See 
OML 2017-42; OML 2013-28; OML 2011-44. The topic "Procurement: o Medical/Behavioral 
Health Decision - VOTE" did not convey clearly to members of the public or health plan 
members that the Commission would be selecting specific health plan providers and possibly 
eliminating others as part of its procurement decision, only that it was making a procurement 
"decision" relating to medical/behavioral health. While a public body must always ensure that 
its notice topics are detailed, that attention to detail is even more imperative where a topic is of 
significant public interest. 
Additionally, topics in the notice such as "Public Hearings" and "OOP Report" provide 
no detail or explanation so that a reasonable member of the public would understand what the 
Commission anticipates discussing. The Commission's notice did not identify any specific 
matters subject to a public hearing, nor did it explain what "OOP" means, though from the 
minutes we now understand this to mean Out Of Pocket Report. Public bodies may not use 
acronyms in a meeting notice, unless they are commonly understood. See OML 2017-156; 
OML 2016-5. The extensive public criticism of the Commission's process suggests that a 
number of insureds and other members of the public did not understand the meeting notice to 
include a vote on possible termination of several earners. 
We note that the Commission expressed concern to our office that providing additional 
detail in the notice about its procurement decision could have run afoul of practices required as 
part of the procurement process. Specifically, the Commission stated that it was concerned that 
providing any public detail about its specific procurement decision, including eliminating current 
health plan providers, would interfere with the integrity of the procurement process. Providers 
that are given advance notice that they are subject to elimination may seek to influence the 
Commission or its stakeholders prior to the Commission making a final decision. We recognize 
this issue, and acknowledge that there may be tension between the transparency requirements of 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations are available at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
the Open Meeting Law and the confidentiality requirements of the procurement process.3 
Nonetheless, the Open Meeting Law requires that the meeting notice provide sufficient detail 
about the issues the Commission will consider. For example, the notice could have listed the 
topic as: 
IV. Procurement decision and VOTE; The Commission will be considering 
recommendations from its procurement team as to the selection of medical and 
behavioral health care insurance providers available to GIC members, including 
commercial and Medicare health plan providers. 
Nothing in this notice topic would have revealed the substance of the proposed 
recommendation or conflicted with the Commission's procurement responsibilities. But the 
notice topic would have given the public adequate knowledge that the Commission would be 
considering selection of insurance providers at the meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
We conclude that the notice for the Commission's January 18, 2018 meeting violated the 
Open Meeting Law because it did not contain the level of detail required by the law. In meeting 
with the Commission's representatives, we are confident that the Commission now understands 
its responsibility to provide detailed, descriptive notices so that the public will understand what 
the Commission intends to discuss at its meeting. We look forward to working with the 
Commission to better navigate the competing requirements of the Open Meeting Law and state 
procurement laws. 
We now consider this matter closed. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-
2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
onathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
3 For example, the Massachusetts Operational Services Division requires members of a procurement team to sign 
confidentiality agreements. See Best Value Procurement Handbook, July 14, 2016, available at 
littp://www.mass.gov/anf/budget-taxes-and-procurement/procurement-info-and-res/conduct-a-procurement/. 
5 