===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 14, 2016 
OML 2016-151 
Andrew Reck, Chairman 
Wayland Planning Board 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chairman Reck: 
This office received a complaint from George Harris, dated August 22, alleging that the 
Wayland Planning Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 18, and the Board responded by letter 
dated July 27. In his complaint, Mr. Harris alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by: (i) posting insufficiently detailed meeting notices on two occasions, and (ii) creating 
inaccurate meeting minutes. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notices and minutes of 
Board meetings that took place on July 5 and 13, as well as the notice and minutes of a Wayland 
Board of Selectmen meeting held on July 13. Finally, we spoke with Wayland Planning Director 
Sarkis Sarkisian by telephone on October 25. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on July 5. 
Under the heading "Town Planner update and comments on future projects," one of the projects 
was listed as follows: "Brookside Development proposed Project Eligibility Site Application." 
The Board held its July 5 meeting as planned. With regard to the discussion of the Brookside 
property, the minutes of the July 5 meeting state the following: "The MassHousing site walk is 
July 7, at 10AM. Town Planner is preparing a draft comment letter to the BOS, which the BOS 
will present to MassHousing." 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on July 13. This notice stated that the 
Board would hold a public hearing and would then convene jointly with the Board of Selectmen 
to discuss additional topics. Among the topics listed for joint discussion with the Board of 
Selectmen was, "Vote to Approve Letter to Mass Housing regarding Brookside Development." 
The Board of Selectmen posted its own meeting notice and listed this topic using identical 
language. The Board convened its July 13 meeting as planned. Before the Board reached the 
discussion of the Brookside Development project, the Board closed its meeting to convene 
jointly with the Board of Selectmen. The Planning Director then presented to both bodies some 
concerns regarding a letter to MassHousing. Ultimately, the bodies took no action on the letter 
beyond stating that there would be a public process going forward where citizens could provide 
input. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The July 5 and 13 Meeting Notices are Sufficiently Detailed. 
A public body must post notice of a meeting at least 48 hours in advance, including a 
"listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics on a notice with "sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b); OML 2014-47.2 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Board's July 5 and 13 meeting notices were 
insufficiently detailed. With respect to the July 5 meeting notice, the complaint alleges that the 
topic "Brookside Development proposed Project Eligibility Site Application" lacked sufficient 
detail to advise the public as to what the Board would discuss. With respect to the July 13 
notice, the complaint alleges that same deficiency with the topic "Vote to Approve Letter to 
Mass Housing regarding Brookside Deyelopment." We find that both descriptions satisfy the 
Board's obligations under the Open Meeting Law. Each one describes the item of business 
under consideration and an action to be taken. The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to 
list topics to be discussed on meeting notices. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The complaint urges that 
the notices should also have listed the property address, the developer, and the type of 
deyelopment proposed.3 Because the discussion that took place during the July 5 and 13 
meetings was tangential to the Brookside Development property—in both meetings, there were 
mere updates on correspondence—we conclude that the notices at issue complied with the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law. Additional detail may have been helpful to member of 
the public, and we encourage the Board to add details such as street addresses on future meeting 
notices. However, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in these 
instances. See OML 2016-137. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 The request for further review points to several determination letters where the Division found that bodies were 
required to include more detail regarding land development projects on meeting notices. See OML 2016-5; OML 
2012-52; OML 2010-2. In all of these cases, the discussion that took place during the meeting was substantially 
different than the minor update that occurred during the Board's July 5 and 13 meetings. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
II. The July 5 Meeting Minutes are Sufficiently Accurate. 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to create and maintain accurate minutes of 
all meetings. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Minutes must contain enough detail for a reasonable member 
of the public who did not attend the meeting to read them and understand what occurred. See 
OML 2013-157. While minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a 
transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion 
presented. See OML 2013-64. 
The complaint alleges that the Board's July 5 meeting minutes are not sufficiently 
accurate because they lack certain detail regarding the Brookside Development—specifically, 
detail the complaint alleges to be missing from the meeting notices. We disagree. Rather than 
allege that the minutes failed to accurately reflect the Board's actual discussion, the complaint 
seems to seems to imply that the Board should have conducted a broader discussion on the 
project at issue. We find that the minutes are sufficiently accurate to be in substantial 
compliance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2013-64. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law, We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Mahganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: George Harris 
Sarkis Sarkisian, Wayland Planning Director 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 