===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL ONE ASHBURTON PLACE BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108  TEL: (617) 727-2200  www.mass.gov/ago  
 March 30, 2020               OML 2020 – 45     Cynthia Amara, Esq. Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410 Quincy, MA 02169  By e-mail only: camara@mhtl.com   RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaints  Dear Attorney Amara:  This office received two complaints from Christine McCue Potts on November 20, 2018, alleging that the Medfield School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A,  §§ 18-25.1  The complaints were originally filed with the Committee on October 1 and October 19, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letters dated October 18 and November 6, respectively.2  The first complaint alleges that the Commission discussed a topic, the resignation of a Committee member, during its September 17 meeting that was not listed on the notice.  The second complaint alleges that the notice for the Committee’s October 16 joint meeting was insufficiently detailed because it failed to identify the name of an individual to be considered for appointment to the Committee at that meeting.  Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to list the name of an individual to be considered for appointment on its October 16 meeting notice.  We find that the Committee did not violate the law in the other way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Committee’s responses to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed the notices and open session minutes of the Committee’s September 4, September 17, and October 16 meetings, as well as a video recording of the September 17 meeting.3  Finally,                                                 1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018. 2 The parties agreed to engage in mediation pursuant to 940 CMR 29.05(9) but the attempts at mediation concluded unsuccessfully in March 2020.   3 The video recording of the September 17 meeting is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aScX70Bet7I&list=PLypOllJHc4M06obOwR5ErZDQ6EUbNUVrU. 
===PAGE 2===
2  
we reviewed the open session minutes of the Board of Selectmen’s joint meeting with the Committee on October 16.     FACTS  We find the facts as follows.  During a September 4 meeting, Committee member Timothy Bonfatti announced that he was resigning from the Committee and that the following meeting on September 17 would be his last meeting.4    On September 13 at 2:08 P.M., the Committee posted notice of a meeting to be held on Monday, September 17 at 7:00 P.M.  The notice listed the following topics: Executive Session, Public Input, Approval of Minutes, New Business, Old Business, Superintendent’s Report to the Committee, and Future Agenda Items.  Most of these topic headings included specific item descriptions that further advised the public of the topics to be discussed.  Specifically, New Business included six additional subtopics, one of which was “Other items since posting on September 13, 2018.”  By letter dated September 14, Medfield resident Meghan Glenn expressed her interest to Committee Chair Anna Mae O’Shea Brooke to fill the Committee seat being vacated by Mr. Bonfatti.  On September 17, prior to the Committee meeting, Chair O’Shea Brooke spoke with Superintendent Marsden about the procedure for replacing a Committee member.  The September 17 meeting was held as planned.  The Committee first met in executive session and then reconvened in open session and discussed the remaining noticed topics.  During New Business, Superintendent Jeffrey Marsden introduced the new Director of Student Services. The Committee then appointed Superintendent Marsden as the school representative to The Education Cooperative’s Board of Directors for the 2018-2019 school year and discussed the evaluation of Superintendent Marsden.  The Committee then reviewed its office hours and appointed members to three subcommittees.    Under the subtopic “Other items since posting on September 13, 2018,” Chair O’Shea Brooke reviewed the procedure for replacing a Committee member that resigns.  She explained that the vacancy must be filled within 30 days but because there was no election scheduled until the spring, the Committee and Board of Selectmen would appoint the new member during a joint meeting to be held on October 16.  Chair O’Shea Brooke announced that any individuals interested in filling the position should submit a letter to her by October 12 and noted that one person had already expressed interest in becoming a Committee member.  Mr. Bonfatti then thanked the Committee members and expressed his gratitude for the collaborative working environment.     On September 20, Superintendent Marsden sent an email to all Medfield School families notifying them that a member of the School Committee was resigning and that anyone interested in being considered for the position should write a letter of interest and email that letter to Chair O’Shea Brooke by October 12.                                                   4 By letter to the Medfield Town Clerk dated September 18, Mr. Bonfatti submitted a written notice of his resignation from the Committee. 
===PAGE 3===
3  
On October 11 at 2:54 P.M., the Committee posted notice of a joint meeting to be held on Tuesday, October 16 at 7:00 P.M.  The notice listed only one topic as follows: “A joint meeting between the School Committee and Board of Selectmen to fill School Committee vacancy by appointment pursuant to General Laws, Chapter 41, Section 11.”   The October 16 joint meeting was held as planned.  Board of Selectmen Chair Michael Marcucci stated that “the procedure is to open the Special Election for nominations from the floor.  Once there are no further nominations, nominations will be closed and the election will be conducted by roll call vote with the four members of the School Committee and three Selectmen.”  Chair O’Shea Brooke nominated Meghan Glenn, who explained that she is a six-year resident of Medfield with three children in the school system, worked as a high school social studies teacher in Illinois, and has been actively involved as a volunteer for various Medfield school fundraisers.  A Medfield resident in attendance then nominated Dr. Meredith Chamberland, who explained that she is a seven-year resident with two children in the school system, currently works as the guidance director in Canton, and was interested in mending broken relationships in the area of student services.  Several members of the public expressed concern that the vacant seat was not well publicized.  The Board of Selectmen and Committee then conducted a roll call vote; all four Committee members (Chair O’Shea Brooke, Leo Brehm, Christopher Morrison and Jessica Reilly) and two Selectmen (Chair Marcucci and Osler Peterson) voted for Ms. Glenn, while the remaining Selectman (Gus Murby) voted for Dr. Chamberland.    DISCUSSION  The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Id.  The list of topics shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35; OML 2012-71.5    The first complaint alleges that the Committee improperly discussed the resignation of Mr. Bonfatti during the September 17 meeting where that topic was not listed on the notice.  We agree that the topic was not specifically listed on the notice but rather was discussed during that part of the meeting under “Other items since posting on September 13, 2018.”  However, we do not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law because a public body may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting.  See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87.  Here, Chair O’Shea Brooke stated that she was not planning to discuss the resignation of Mr. Bonfatti at the September 17 meeting since a joint meeting with the Board of Selectmen to appoint an individual to fill the vacancy had already been scheduled.  Rather, she had spoken with Superintendent Marsden on September 17,                                                 5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website; www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4  
sometime prior to the Committee meeting scheduled later that day, to review the procedure for filling a vacancy and that was the information she shared with the Committee during the meeting.  As such, this discussion was not a reasonably anticipated topic because it arose within the 48 hours prior to the September 17 meeting.  Therefore, the chair was not required to separately list it on the notice.  See OML 2015-195; OML 2015-4.  Although a public body may consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the notice if it was not reasonably anticipated by the chair at least 48 hours before the meeting, we encourage public bodies to postpone discussion of topics that were not listed in the meeting notice until the topic may be included in a meeting notice, unless the circumstances demand immediate action by the public body.  See OML 2013-197; OML 2011-23.  We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the sufficiency of the September 17 meeting notice.    The second complaint alleges that the Committee’s October 16 meeting notice failed to identify the one individual who had submitted a letter of interest for appointment to the Committee.  In past determinations, we have stated that notices must include specific details about appointments to be made and anticipated applicants.  See OML 2017-177; OML 2017-148; OML 2016-167; OML 2015-196.  This information gives members of the public necessary information about the positions or applicants the Committee intends to consider.  Here, Chair O’Shea Brooke had received a letter of interest from Ms. Glenn and anticipated nominating Ms. Glenn during the October 16 joint meeting.  As such, Ms. Glenn’s name should have appeared on the meeting notice.  See OML 2017-168.  The Committee contends that it would have been inappropriate to only list Ms. Glenn’s name as the Committee was planning to hear additional “nominations from the floor.”  This concern can be addressed by the Committee including on the notice a statement that additional nominations will be accepted during the meeting.  Based on the foregoing, we find that the Committee’s October 16 meeting notice lacked sufficient detail to meet the requirements of the Open Meeting Law.  Finally, we must determine whether this violation was, as the complainant urges, an intentional one.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 29.02.  An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting Law.  Id.  This Office has not issued any determinations that advised the Committee that the notice must include specific details about appointments to be made and anticipated applicants.  Because we find no evidence that the Committee acted with deliberate ignorance of the law and where the Committee had not been notified of its obligations prior to the events addressed in this letter, we find that this violation was not intentional.     CONCLUSION  For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting by failing to list the name of an individual to be considered for appointment on its October 16 meeting notice.  We order immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.    
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
  
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  Christine McCue Potts – By e-mail only:  
 Medfield School Committee – By e-mail only: scchair@email.medfield.net 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
