===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 19,2018 
OML 2018-109 
Brian Riley, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
This office received a complaint from Frank Korahais on November 13, alleging that 
the Truro Board of Assessors (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 22, and you responded, 
on behalf of the Board, by letter dated September 11. The complaint alleges that the Board 
discussed and took action on a topic, tax classifications, that was not sufficiently detailed on 
its August 14 meeting notice, and that the Board failed to post minutes to its website. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following 
our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing a topic not 
listed on the meeting notice. We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
when it did not post minutes to its website. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint, the Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our 
office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notices of, and open session minutes 
from, the Board's August 14 and August 25 meetings; and the notices of, and open session 
minutes from, the Board of Selectmen's August 9 and August 22 meetings. 
We find the facts as follows. On August 9, the Board of Selectmen held a meeting 
that was dedicated to allowing non-resident property owners to discuss their concerns about 
various issues in Town, including the residential tax exemption. Approximately 150 people 
attended this meeting, some of whom spoke on the issue. At the conclusion of this meeting. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
.FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
the Board of Selectmen announced that the annual tax classification hearing would be held on 
August 22. 
On August 10 at 9:15 A.M., the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
August 14. The notice included five topics, including approval of previous meeting minutes, 
public comment, excise abatement and commitment, "any other business that may lawfully 
come before the Board," and an executive session.2 
The August 14 meeting was held as planned. During the meeting, the Board reviewed 
property value reports and discussed the residential tax exemption. The Board then voted on 
recommendations to submit to the Board of Selectmen regarding the tax classifications, 
including the recommendation to grant a residential exemption. The Board also discussed 
motor vehicle excise commitments and abatements, and convened in executive session to 
discuss abatement applications. 
On August 18, the Board of Selectmen posted notice of a meeting to be held on 
August 22. Under the heading, "Public Hearing," the Board listed the following topic: 
"Public Hearing and Vote on Fiscal Year 2018 Tax Classification Hearing and Review and 
Approval of signatory authority to the Principal Assessor for the Classification Tax Allocation 
(LA-5)." The Board of Selectmen also published legal notice of the hearing notifying the 
public that it intended to determine "the percentages of the local tax levy to be borne in Fiscal 
Year 2018 by each class of property" including residential. 
The Board of Selectmen met on August 22, with approximately 150 people in 
attendance, some of whom voiced their opinions about the residential tax exemption. After 
the conclusion of the public hearing portion of the meeting, the Board voted on each tax 
classification, including a vote to approve the residential tax exemption. 
On August 22 at 2:34 P.M., the complainant filed an Open Meeting Law complaint 
regarding the Board's failure to list the tax classification topic on its August 14 meeting 
notice. On August 22 at 4:00 P.M., the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
August 25. The notice included eight topics, including "FY 18 Tax Classification Hearing-
Discussion & Vote." 
The August 25 meeting was held as planned and the Board held a new vote on the tax 
classification topic. Just as it had during its August 14 meeting, the Board voted on 
2 Although not raised in the complaint, we note that the notice for the August 14 meeting did not include the 
purpose for the executive session, instead only referencing G.L. c. 39, § 23B, the previous version of the Open 
Meeting Law, which was repealed in 2009. The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to list anticipated 
discussion topics on a meeting notice with sufficient specificity such that a reasonable member of the public 
could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b); OML 2016-75. To convene in executive session, the public body must identify in its meetmg notice 
the specific executive session purpose it intends to invoke to justify the executive session, and provide as must 
detail as possible to inform the public of the nature of the executive session discussion without compromising the 
purpose of the executive session. See OML 2016-95. We remind the Board of its obligations under the law. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
I 
recommendations to submit to the Board of Selectmen regarding the tax classifications, 
including the recommendation to grant a residential exemption. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Discussing a Topic Not Listed 
on its Meeting Notice. 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body must post notice of every meeting at 
least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). Notices must include "a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." IcL The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We 
generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could 
read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See 
OML 2018-13; OML 2015-35.3 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to list on its August 14 meeting notice that 
it would discuss tax classifications, including the residential tax exemption. The Board 
acknowledges such failure. Because the notice did not include the tax classification topic, we 
find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. Although we commend the Board for 
attempting to remedy this violation by including this topic on its August 25 meeting notice 
and then reaffirming the recommendations during that meeting, this action was not wholly 
sufficient to address the violation committed. See Pearson v. Board of Selectmen of 
Longmeadow. 49 Mass. App. Ct. 119, 125 (2000), (citing Tolar v. School Board of Liberty 
County. 398 So.2d 427, 429 (Fla. 1981)) (noting violations may be cured by independent, 
deliberative action, that is "not merely a ceremonial acceptance . . . and ... a perfunctory 
ratification of secret decisions"). First, the Board cursorily explained and ratified its actions, 
but took no time to discuss any possible missteps. Second, this discussion occurred after the 
Board of Selectmen had already voted to approve the residential tax exemption that the Board 
had recommended through its improperly-noticed August 14 vote. Thus, the Board's action 
was insufficient to remedy the violation that occurred. See OML 2016-49; OML 2013-195. 
II. The Board is Not Required under the Open Meeting Law to Post Minutes to a 
Website. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, 
the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
must be reviewed and approved in a timely manner, which as of October 6, 2017, means 
"within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later." See G.L. 
c. 30A, § 22(c); 940 CMR 29.11. Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a 
meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2014-15; OML 2012-91. 
The complaint alleges that minutes from Board meetings held since October 2016 
have not been "posted." We note that the Open Meeting Law does not require that public 
bodies post their meeting minutes to a website, or that minutes be posted with the Town 
Clerk. See OML 2013-103. Nonetheless, the Board has chosen to post its meeting minutes 
on its website and has notified the complainant that minutes from its meetings are available at 
that location. 
In his request for further review, the complainant clarified that the Board has also 
failed to "prepare, review and approve meeting minutes altogether." We generally decline to 
review an allegation that was not included within the original complaint to the Board because 
the Board has not had an opportunity to respond to it. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 
29.05(3). We find that this allegation was not clearly raised in the original complaint and thus 
we do not review its merits. However, we note that minutes from Board meetings held in 
April and August do not appear to have been approved in a timely manner. Even before the 
October 6, 2017, effective date of the revised Open Meeting Law regulations requiring that 
minutes be approved within the next three meetings or within 30 days, we had concluded that 
for bodies that meet regularly, such as weekly or bi-monthly, a delay of two to three months 
in approving minutes did not comply with the law.4 See OML 2016-62; OML 2013-31. 
Here, the Board met regularly but did not approve its April 3 and April 14 minutes until 
November 3 and November 13 respectively, or its August 14 and August 25 minutes until 
December 18, despite having met ten to eleven times between April and November, and 
August and December. We remind the Board of its obligations under the law and note our 
concern that the Board had many opportunities to approve these sets of minutes but failed to 
do so. We acknowledge that the Board has now approved its remaining sets of minutes from 
meetings held in 2017 and posted those minutes to its website. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by discussing a topic during its August 14 meeting that was not listed on the notice. We order 
immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar— 
future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
4 We note that the minutes at issue here pertain to meetings that occurred prior to the effective date of the 
regulations. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
Sincerely, 
KerryAme Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Frank Korahais 
Truro Board of Assessors 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
5 