===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
November 10, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 146 
 
Chair Cherry Karlson 
Wayland Board of Selectmen 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Karlson: 
This office received a complaint from George Harris on May 11, 2020, alleging that the 
Wayland Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 3, and you responded on behalf 
of the Board by letter dated April 3.
1 In his complaint, Mr. Harris alleges that the Board 
improperly entered into executive session at a February 3 meeting and that the notice for the 
February 3 meeting was insufficiently detailed. For the following reasons, we resolve this 
complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Board 
only violated the Open Meeting Law with respect to the detail on the meeting notice.  
1. The Board’s February 3 executive session discussions relating to the Rivers Edge Project 
were proper under Purpose 6, and the purpose remains ongoing.  
 All meetings of a public body must be conducted in an open session, unless a closed-door 
executive session is convened for one of ten permissible purposes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). 
One such statutory purpose for executive session is to “consider the purchase, exchange, lease or 
value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the negotiating position of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) (“Purpose 6”). However, 
where the price has been settled and there are no additional terms under consideration, but rather 
the discussion is focused largely on the use of the property once the purchase is completed, 
Purpose 6 does not apply to authorize deliberation in executive session. See OML 2019-108; 
OML 2016-93.2  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 Here, the Board entered into a land disposition agreement (“LDA”) with developer WP 
East Acquisitions, LLC (“WP”) on July 28, 2017, for the purpose of developing a parcel of 
Town-owned property (the “River’s Edge Project”) into residential housing. In the LDA, the 
parties agreed upon a gross price that WP would pay for the Town’s property. However, the 
LDA also included four outstanding costs that WP would expend to remediate and prepare the 
land for development, resulting in a lower net purchase price. The LDA specified that the title to 
the property would only be transferred to WP after WP completed the remediation work and paid 
the net price. During the remediation process, new costs have arisen, and the parties have 
negotiated to adjust the four categories of remediation cost to reflect the work undertaken by 
WP. The remediation work is still ongoing and further amendments to the LDA are possible until 
the transaction closes with a transfer of title.  
 We reviewed the Board’s February 3 executive session minutes in camera. As the 
minutes have not been released to the public, we do not recount their contents in detail. We are 
satisfied that the Board’s discussion regarding the Rivers Edge Project was proper under Purpose 
6 as it related to the “purchase, exchange, lease or value” of the Rivers Edge Project property and 
the Board had a negotiating position to protect in its ongoing negotiations with WP.  
 In addition, we find that the Board’s purpose for the February 3 discussions remains 
ongoing and therefore the Board is not required to release its executive session minutes at this 
time. Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(f). When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any 
documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege 
or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, from 
disclosure. See id. Once the Board concludes all negotiation with WP, the purpose for this 
executive session will conclude, and any outstanding executive minutes related to this 
transaction should be released. See OML 2019-143. The Board assures us that it intends to 
release any outstanding executive session minutes, with applicable redactions as permitted under 
the Public Records Law or attorney-client privilege, once title to the property is transferred to 
WP.  
2. The notice for the Board’s February 3 meeting was insufficiently detailed.  
 The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a). Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District 
Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm, of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only 
notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only 
way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”).  
 We find that the executive session topic listed on the Board’s February 3 meeting notice, 
“Enter into Executive Session…Pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 30A, Section 
21 (a) (6) to consider the purchase exchange, taking, lease or value of real estate in regard to the 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Rivers Edge Project at 484-490 Boston Post Road[,]” was insufficiently detailed. Although the 
topic here identified the property, the Board has met so many times about this property, and 
issued so many amendments, that merely identifying the property did not meaningfully inform 
the public about the nature of the Board’s anticipated discussion. See OML 2020-132 
(identification of contract was insufficient to inform the public because topic was only clearly 
understood by Board members); OML 2019-111 (when a public body has repeatedly discussed a 
posted topic over the course of several meetings, additional detail on the notice is required to 
meaningfully inform the public about the anticipated nature of the discussion for the particular 
meeting). In addition, as the four remediation factors were already public in the LDA, the Board 
could have given the public more detail regarding the anticipated discussion without harming the 
Board’s negotiating position. Accordingly, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law. 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Bo ard violated the Open Meeting Law with 
respect to the detail on February 3 meeting notice. We find no violation with respect to the other 
allegation. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law 
and caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: G
eorge Harris (via e- mail: ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 