===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
August 28, 2019 
OML 2019-108
John Foskett, Esq.
Volerio Dominello & Hillman, LLC 
1 University Avenue, Suite 300B 
Westwood, MA 02090
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Foskett:
This office received a complaint from Merrie Najimy on May 23, 2019, alleging that the 
New Bedford School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on March 20, 2019, and 
you responded on behalf of the Committee in a letter dated April 9, 2019. In her complaint, Ms. 
Najimy alleges that the Committee improperly convened in executive session on March 11, 
2019, under Purpose 6, to discuss the transfer of a public school building to a charter school. Ms 
Najimy states that discussing this topic in open session would not have had a detrimental effect 
on the Committee’s negotiating position and, therefore, the use of executive session was 
improper.
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
entering executive session for an impermissible purpose. In reaching a determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response and the request for further review. 
The Committee has released its executive session minutes from the meeting in question and we 
reviewed them as well.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. In August of 2018, Alma del Mar Charter School (“Alma”) 
applied to the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education (“DESE”) to 
obtain an additional 1,188 charter school seats in New Bedford. Seeking to avoid the serious 
financial impact on the city if Alma’s request were granted, Mayor Jon Mitchell and 
Superintendent Thomas Anderson subsequently entered into discussions with DESE and Alma 
about a potential compromise. Those discussions led to a January 11, 2019, letter of intent, in 
which Mayor Mitchell, Alma’s Executive Director, and the DESE Commissioner outlined a 
potential arrangement in which Alma would receive only 450 new seats, all of which would be

===PAGE 2===
used at a new neighborhood school located at the former Kempton School site, which the city 
would convey to Alma free of charge. This letter of intent, which was not binding on the 
Committee, broadly outlined the agreement, but a more specific memorandum of understanding 
(“MOU”) was expected to follow to fill in important details about the deal. Once the MOU was 
finalized, it would be sent to the Committee for approval. The three officials continued to 
negotiate over the next two months to come up with a final MOU.
At its regular meeting on March 11, 2019, the Committee entered executive session under 
Purpose 6 “to consider the potential disposition of the H.A. Kempton School to the Alma del 
Mar School.” During the executive session, the Committee discussed a draft of the MOU relating 
to the new “Alma II” school. For example, the Committee discussed:
(1) how tuition payments from the City to Alma would be calculated;
(2) grant opportunities to cover transportation costs;
(3) the need for an immediate environmental assessment of the property;
(4) the possibility of terminating the MOU in the case of a delayed transfer of the
property;
(5) enrollment concerns and the right of parents to opt children out of the new Alma II;
(6) whether the New Bedford School District was required to guarantee a certain
enrollment level; and
(7) how other charter schools were funded in the city.
The Committee did not discuss the term of the MOU that provided the City would convey the 
property to Alma “at no cost.” Mayor Mitchell, the Committee’s ex-officio chair, explained that 
the deadline for completing the MOU was the next day and that the School District had very 
little leverage to change any of the terms of the MOU. At the end of the meeting, Committee 
Member Dawicki asked if it was possible to extend the deadline. Superintendent Anderson, who 
is not a member of the Committee, said that he would ask DESE for more time and to consider 
alternatives to some of the matters in the MOU as then drafted.
The next day, on March 12, 2019, Mayor Mitchell, Alma’s Executive Director, and the 
DESE Commissioner signed a nine-page MOU concerning the arrangement.
The Committee voted to approve the MOU at a special meeting on March 21, 2019, after 
a forty-five minute open session deliberation.
DISCUSSION
All meetings of a public body must be conducted in an open session, unless a closed-door 
executive session is convened for one of ten permissible purposes. G.L. c. 30 A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). 
One such statutory purpose for executive session is to “consider the purchase, exchange, lease or 
value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the negotiating position of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) (“Purpose 6”). However, 
where the price has been settled and there are no additional terms under consideration, but rather 
the discussion is focused largely on the use of the property once the purchase is completed,
2

===PAGE 3===
Purpose 6 is not a proper purpose for convening in executive session. See OML 2016-93; OML 
2014-36; OML 2012-52.'
Here, the Committee asserts that negotiations were still ongoing about many terms of the 
MOU at the March 11,2019, meeting and that the Committee could have raised the price of the 
Kempton School property to be paid by Alma if the financial cost of other parts of the deal 
increased. However, we find that the Committee did not discuss this issue. The executive session 
minutes document that the Committee gave feedback on many elements of the MOU, such as 
questions of tuition and enrollment for the new school. Although many of these considerations 
were financial in nature, and the Committee hypothetically could have asked for an increase in 
the price of the property in order to offset other costs of the new school, the Committee did not 
discuss the option of raising the price of the property during its March 11 executive session. The 
Committee’s discussion related to the future use of the property and issues of school planning 
and funding unrelated to the school building transaction, which are not proper topics for 
executive session discussion. See OML 2019-59; OML 2015-167. For these reasons, we find that 
the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by entering into executive session on March 11.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by improperly entering executive session for an impermissible purpose. However, because the 
Committee has already released the executive session minutes from its March 11 meeting, no 
further relief is required. We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law and caution the Committee that a determination by our office of a similar 
violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions.
Sincerely,
Sarah Chase
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: MerrieNajimy
New Bedford School Committee
1 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
4
