===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 8, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 180 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Susan Audette 
Amherst Town Clerk 
Amherst Board of Registrars, Ex Officio Member  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Audette: 
This office received a complaint from Carol Gray on July 21, 2021, alleging that the 
Amherst Board of Registrars (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 4, and you responded on behalf of 
the Board by letter dated May 24.1 In her complaint, Ms. Gray alleges that the Board posted an 
insufficiently specific meeting notice for an April 21 meeting and deliberated outside of a posted 
meeting.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We reviewed the notice and a video 
recording of the April 21 meeting. We communicated by email with Ms. Gray on several 
occasions in August 2021. We reviewed the 2017 Amherst Home Rule Charter. Finally, we 
reviewed all emails between the Amherst Town Clerk’s Office and members of the Board 
leading up to the Board’s April 21, 2021, meeting pertaining to the subject matter at issue in this 
complaint. 
1. The Board’s notice for the April 21 meeting was sufficiently specific. 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 The complaint also alleges that the Board improperly delegated its authority to the Town Clerk, in violation of the 
Amherst Town Charter. We note that, even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of  the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Accordingly, we decline to review it. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant 
Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post 
notice of each meeting and include in that notice a “listings of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). When reviewing a meeting 
notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting 
notice standing alone. See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155.3 Rather, we review what the public 
body actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently specific to 
make the public aware of the discussion topics. Id.  
 Here, Ms. Gray alleges that the topic “Delegation of authority and duties listed under 
Charter Sections 8.2, 8.3, and 8.4 to Town Clerk Office Staff,” as listed on the notice for the 
April 21 meeting, was insufficiently specific. We disagree. Although the Board’s notice did not 
quote or summarize the sections of the Home Rule Charter that contained the authority the Board 
planned to delegate, this level of detail was not required, as the citations to the three Charter 
sections were precise and unambiguous on their own. A public body need not list each and every 
detail about a topic in order to comply with the Law’s requirements. See OML 2019-67; OML 
2014-122. Because the April 21 meeting notice described the anticipated topic with sufficient 
specificity—namely, the delegation of certain duties and authorities to Town Clerk’s Office 
staff—and that is in fact what the Board discussed during the April 21 meeting, we find that the 
notice for the April 21 meeting was sufficiently specific. Therefore, we find no violation of the 
Open Meeting Law in this respect.  
2. We find no evidence that the Board deliberated outside of a posted meeting. 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.” Id. However, there is a narrow exception to the definition of 
“deliberation” for “the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution 
of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be 
discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18, 
see also OML 2017-17; OML 2016-172. 
 For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the 
members of a public body. Id. A one-way communication from one public body member to a 
quorum on matters within the body’s jurisdiction constitutes deliberation for purposes of the 
Open Meeting Law, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 2016-104; OML 
2015-33; OML 2012-73. A public body may not engage in serial communication whereby a 
quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a subject 
within the public body’s jurisdiction. See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008). 
 Here, the Board is a four-member public body, thus three members constitute a quorum. 
In order to constitute deliberation outside of meeting, an email must reach a quorum of public 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
body members. Some of the emails we reviewed did not reach a quorum of the Board. In 
addition, some of the emails which did reach a quorum only discussed scheduling or agenda 
items for the April 21 meeting, which are specifically exempt from the Open Meeting Law’s 
definition of “deliberation.” See OML 2021-112. We therefore find that any emails that did not 
reach a quorum, or were merely about scheduling or agenda items and did not express opinions 
of public body members, did not constitute deliberation for purposes of the Open Meeting Law.  
 Only one email that we reviewed did not fit into these categories. On May 13, at 
1:11 p.m., Board Member Jaime Wagner emailed Board Member Demetria Shabazz, copying 
Board Member Jacqueline Gardner and Board Member Amber Martin, who served as the ex 
officio Board Member representing the Town Clerk’s Office. Other Town employees, Town 
Counsel and the President of the Town Council were copied. In this email, Member Wagner 
stated that he had forwarded all of his emails that were responsive to a public records request 
made by Carol Gray to Member Shabazz, Member Gardner and the Town Clerk. We find that 
this purely administrative task did not constitute improper deliberation. See, e.g. OML 2021-112 
(finding email sent to a quorum of a public body to be administrative in nature where it asked a 
question in response to information provided by the Executive Director and did not contain any 
opinion); OML 2013-160 (act of signing certification form outside of a meeting is not itself 
improper deliberation but administrative task); OML 2013-130 (finding no violation where Chair 
emailed Superintendent, copying other Board members to keep them informed, because the 
Chair’s communication was directed to the Superintendent, not the Board members, and was 
only meant to collect factual information, not to convey an opinion to the Board). Therefore, we 
do not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law because Member Wagner merely notified a 
quorum of his public body that he had complied with a request made under the Public Records 
Law. 
 Finally, we find no evidence that the Board communicated in a serial manner or 
deliberated either by phone or in-person ahead of the April 21 meeting. Although the Board’s 
lack of discussion about delegating its authority to staff during the April 21 meeting may have 
created the appearance of prior deliberation by the Board, we find no evidence of it. We have 
stated in prior determinations that agreement without substantive discussion among public body 
members or even the lack of substantive discussion prior to a vote is insufficient to support the 
inference that those members deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. See OML 2021-42; OML 
2020-7. Therefore, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this respect.  
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Carol Gray (via e-mail: ) 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 