===PAGE 1===
liiiiiiiiijlHlllfci!
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
February 4, 2020
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
OML 2020 -12
Elizabeth Lydon 
Associate City Solicitor 
Office of the City Solicitor 
133 William Street 
Room 205
New Bedford, MA 02740
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Lydon:
On September 51 this office received two complaints, one each from Dorvalino 
DeMedeiros and Louis Macedo, alleging that the New Bedford Conservation Commission (the 
“Commission”) and its Chair, Craig Dixon, violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§18- 
25. Both complaints were originally filed with the Commission on August 2, and you responded 
on behalf of the Commission by letters dated August 15. The complaints allege that 1) the 
Commission “made a determination without holding a public hearing,” and 2) the “Chairman 
made a unilateral decision that shocked his board.” 2
Following our review, we do not find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaints, a 
July 19 article published in the Standard-Times and referenced in the complaints3, the 
Commission’s responses, and notices and minutes for the Commission’s July 2 and July 16
1 All dates are in 2019, unless otherwise stated.
2 After a phone call with Mr. DeMedeiros, it is our understanding that the Complainants’ concern is with the process 
by which a water park was allowed to open in New Bedford, insofar as the Mayor of New Bedford pursued the 
water park project with an out of state company and without involving the community. To the extent the 
Complainants intended to file these complaints against the Mayor as well, we note that The Open Meeting Law does 
not apply to individual public officials who are not acting as members of public bodies. See OML 2015-31; OML 
2014-79; OML 2013-70. If the Complainants believe that laws other than the Open Meeting Law were violated, 
those concerns should be raised with the appropriate authority.
3 A copy of the article may be found at https://www.southcoasttoday.com/news/2019Q719/mitchell-denies-he- 
muscled-citv-board-on-water-park.

===PAGE 2===
meetings. We also communicated by phone with Mr. DeMedeiros and Mr. Macedo, and by email 
with counsel for the Commission.4
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. At the time of the events relevant to this complaint, the 
Commission was a five-member public body; thus, three members constituted a quorum. On 
June 27, the Commission posted notice for a meeting to be held on July 2 at 6:30 p.m. The 
meeting notice included the following relevant topic for discussion under the heading “New 
Hearings”:
A Notice of Intent as filed by Mary Rapoza, Director of the City of New Bedford 
Parks, Recreation & Beaches for property identified as East Beach (Map 4, Lot 2). 
Applicant proposes to install a seasonal floating inflatable water park (172’ x 
190’) in the water south of the East Beach Pier. The water park will be in 
approximately 4’ to 8’ deep water and secured in place by approximately 25 
anchors. Representative is Mary Rapoza of the Department of Parks, Recreation 
and Beaches.
At the July 2 meeting, the Commission discussed the noticed topic relating to a 
temporary inflatable water park to be installed in the water at East Beach in New 
Bedford. The Commission also heard public comment on the topic as well. Ultimately, 
the Commission voted to table the topic until its next meeting.
The Commission next posted notice on July 11 for a meeting to be held on July 16 
at 6:30 p.m. This meeting notice included the following relevant topic for discussion 
under the heading “Continued Hearings”:
SE49-0830 - (Continued from 7/2/19) - A Notice of Intent as filed by Mary 
Rapoza, Director of the City of New Bedford Parks, Recreation & Beaches for 
property identified as East Beach (Map 4, Lot 2). Applicant proposes to install a 
seasonal floating inflatable water park (172’ x 190’) in the water south of the East 
Beach Pier. The water park will be in approximately 4’ to 8’ deep water and 
secured in place by approximately 25 anchors. Representative is Mary Rapoza of 
the Department of Parks, Recreation and Beaches.
At some point prior to the July 16 meeting, the water park was installed and a request 
from the Mayor’s office regarding the water park was relayed to the Chair. In response to 
the Mayor’s request, the Chair gave his permission for a soft opening of the water park.
At the July 16 meeting, the Commission discussed the water park project, including the 
process by which it was approved and by which it came before the Commission. The 
Commission voted to approve the project with conditions.
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.
2

===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post 
notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting and include a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The Law defines “meeting,” 
in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's 
jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A “deliberation” is defined, in relevant part, as “an oral or 
written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a 
quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id. For purposes of the 
Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of the public body. Id.
The Complainants allege that 1) the Commission “made a determination without holding 
a public hearing,” and 2) the “Chairman made a unilateral decision that shocked his board.” We 
note first that the Division enforces the Open Meeting Law, and not separate laws that may 
require or govern the conduct of public hearings specifically. As such, we review these 
complaints for violations of the Open Meeting Law only. We also note that the Open Meeting 
Law does not govern the authority of individual public body members to act on behalf of the 
public body; thus, we do not review the allegation that the Chair made a unilateral decision, 
purportedly on behalf of the Commission. We consider only whether the Commission 
improperly deliberated outside of a public meeting, in violation of the Open Meeting Law. See 
OML 2013-73.5 After review of the complaints, the July 19 article the complaints reference, the 
Commission’s responses, and additional information Mr. DeMedeiros provided during our 
subsequent phone call, we do not find sufficient evidence to support the allegation that the 
Commission deliberated outside of a properly noticed meeting regarding the water park. Absent 
sufficient evidence to support the Complainants’ allegation, we credit the Commission’s account 
of the facts. See OML 2014-122; OML 2013-133; OML 2015-8. Therefore, we do not find that 
the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law.
CONCLUSION
For the above reasons, we do not find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions.
Division of Open Government
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting
3

===PAGE 4===
cc: New Bedford Conservation Commission 
Dorvalino DeMedeiros 
Louis Macedo
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
4
