===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 4, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 175 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Elizabeth Lydon, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
liz@mtclawyers.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Lydon: 
 
This office received a complaint from Jack Rybicki on January 4, 2023, alleging that the 
Newbury Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about December 1, 2022,
1 and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated December 14. The complaint alleges that the 
Board posted notice less than 48 hours in advance of a November 30 meeting in the absence of 
an emergency justifying the short notice. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, the request for further review, and the notice for the Board’s November 30 
meeting. We also reviewed the November 17 Superseding Order of Conditions (the “SOC”) at 
issue, a video recording of the Newbury Conservation Commission’s (the “Commission”) 
November 29 executive session in which it discussed the SOC,
2 and communications provided 
by the Board in response to questions from our office. Additionally, we communicated by 
telephone with Alicia Greco, chair of the Board; Bob Connors, chair of the Commission; and 
Attorney Alexander Castro, formerly of Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC. Finally, we 
communicated via email with Attorney Elizabeth Lydon of Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC.3 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 We understand that the Commission may have unintentionally posted the video recording of its November 29 
executive session online, during which time the Complainant made a copy of the video and then provided that copy 
to our office.  
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The complaint relates to a proposed project known as 
The Villages at Cricket Lane. On November 23, 2021, the Commission issued an Order of 
Conditions denying the project. On November 17, 2022, the Massachusetts Department of 
Environmental Protection (“DEP”) issued a Superseding Order of Conditions (the “SOC”) 
approving the project. The SOC set forth an appeal process stating that, among others, the 
Commission could appeal the SOC within ten business days of the date of issuance. As such, the 
deadline for appealing the SOC was Friday, December 2. The SOC was received by the Town on 
November 21. Due to the Thanksgiving holiday and members’ availability, the Commission was 
unable to meet to discuss whether to appeal the SOC until November 29.  
 
On November 29 the Commission met in executive session at approximately 7:00 p.m. 
After discussing with counsel whether to appeal the SOC, the Commission voted to appeal. In 
the evening on November 29, after the Commission voted to appeal the SOC, legal counsel 
informed the chair of the Board, Alicia Greco, of the Commission’s vote, the need for the Board 
to meet to decide whether to authorize the appeal, and the fact that the appeal was due that 
Friday.  
 
As soon as Town offices opened the next day, November 30, Chair Greco contacted an 
administrative assistant and explained that the Commission had voted the night before to appeal 
the SOC and that the Board would need to meet to decide whether to authorize the appeal. At 
8:19 a.m. on November 30 the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held at 7:00 p.m. that 
same day. The notice included one substantive topic: “Executive Session with regards to G.L. c. 
30A § 21(a)(3), in the matter of the Department of Environmental Protection and Cricket Lane 
LLC, SOC, 050-1355, for 55R Pearson Lane.” During the Board’s November 30 executive 
session, the Board voted to authorize the Commission’s appeal. Thereafter, the Commission 
appealed the SOC.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “[e]xcept in 
 an emergency, . . . a public body shall 
post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to the meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The Open Meeting Law defines an emergency as “a 
sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding immediate action.” 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18; 940 CMR 29.02. “In an emergency, a public body shall post notice as soon as 
reasonably possible prior to such meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Emergency meetings are 
reserved for circumstances that are unanticipated and require an immediate response, that is, 
action that could not wait for notice of a meeting to be posted 48 hours in advance. See OML 
2021-119; OML 2017-131; OML 2016-70; OML 2011-45.4 The burden of justifying the need for 
an emergency meeting falls on the public body. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2012-7. 
 
There is no dispute that the Board did not post notice of the November 30 meeting 48 
hours in advance of the meeting. The only dispute here is whether the circumstances constituted 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
an emergency, as defined in the Open Meeting Law, such that the Board was relieved of the 
requirement to post notice 48 hours in advance of the meeting. Based on the information before 
us, we find that an emergency existed. The circumstances were sudden and unexpected because 
the Board was unaware that it would need to vote to authorize an appeal until the Chair was 
notified by legal counsel after the Commission voted to appeal. Additionally, it was far from 
certain that the Commission would in fact choose to appeal, and as such the Board could not 
reasonably be considered to have been on notice that it would need to meet to authorize the 
appeal. Indeed, during the Commission’s executive session it discussed the SOC and whether to 
appeal for approximately an hour before voting in a divided vote to appeal. Finally, the 
circumstances required immediate action where approval of the appeal needed to be granted with 
enough time to allow legal counsel to draft the appeal, which counsel represented would take 
significant work.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,      
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Alicia Greco, Chair, Newbury Select Board (via email: ) 
Gretchen Girard, Newbury Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@townofnewbury.org) 
Jack Rybicki (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
