===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 4, 2025  
  
OML 2025 – 42 
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
Karis L. North, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane LLP 
knorth@mhtl.com 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints  
 
Dear Attorney North:  
 
This office received a complaint from Owen Smith on June 19, 2024, alleging that the 
Newburyport City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Council on May 19, and you responded on 
behalf of the Council by letter dated May 31.1  The complaint alleges that the Council convened 
in executive session during a meeting held on April 29 without identifying the litigation matter to 
be discussed 
 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Council’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review of the complaint.  We also reviewed 
the notice of the April 29 meeting and a video of the open session portion of the April 29 
meeting.
2  Finally, we corresponded with the Council’s legal counsel regarding the executive 
session. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-
(b), 21.  A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that 
a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of April 29 meeting may be accessed at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XrySR1f84lU&list=PLQ9YfrM9CQQwv--GFo8V56q9FfJqQYML3&index=2. 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly 
announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.
3  The chair of the public body must announce 
in open session the purpose for the executive session, “stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.”  See G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 21(a), (b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 
Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is 
necessary ... because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would 
conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so 
was proper or improper”).  This level of detail about the executive session topic must also be 
included in the meeting notice.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2016-72.  
 
One permissible reason to convene in executive session is “to discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).  This purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with 
respect to litigation that is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise 
demonstrably likely; the mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3.  See 
Doherty v. School Committee of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Perryman v. School 
Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-05.  When convening in 
executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body should identify the litigation matter to be 
discussed, so long as doing so would not compromise the public body’s litigating position.  See 
OML 2020-108; OML 2016-12; OML 2013-97.  A public body need not identify the litigation 
matter if publicly disclosing it would compromise the purpose for the executive session, such as 
when the body is considering initiating litigation against another party.  See G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 21(a)(3), 21(b)(3); OML 2020-109; OML 2017-176; OML 2015-121; OML 2015-
87.  Although we generally defer to a public body’s assessment of whether the inclusion of such 
information would compromise the purpose for the executive session, a public body must be able 
to demonstrate a reasonable basis for such a claim if challenged.  See OML 2015-14. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Council President failed to identify the litigation matter to 
be discussed in executive session on April 29.  Indeed, the meeting notice indicated “[p]ursuant 
to MGL c. 30A s. 21 (3) there will be an executive session for the purpose of discussing strategy 
with respect to potential litigation”; the notice did not identify the specific litigation matter.  
During the meeting, prior to convening in executive session, Council President Edward Cameron 
stated that the Council would convene in executive session for two purposes, one of which was 
“discussing strategy with respect to potential litigation because having that discussion in open 
session would have a detrimental effect on the public body’ negotiation position, we being the 
public body…”  Councilor Sharif Zeid then clarified that the Council was not disclosing the 
specific subject, names of individuals, or matters to be discussed with respect to the litigation as 
had typically been done in the past, and Council President Cameron responded that, based on 
confirmation from legal counsel, such details would not be disclosed.  The second stated subject 
for discussion in executive session is not at issue in this complaint.   
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
Both the meeting notice and Council President Cameron’s statement disclosed that the 
Council would discuss strategy with respect to “potential litigation.”  The Council explains that 
the “potential litigation discussed was a potential action to be brought by the City, and not a 
discussion of a claim the City thought would be brought against it, or a matter where the City 
was already a party.”  The Council represents that it discussed prospects for resolution of the 
matter and it believed that disclosing the identity of the potential litigation could make it less 
likely, or impossible, to resolve the matter.  Based on information provided by the Council and 
its legal counsel, we are satisfied that the Council has demonstrated a reasonable basis for its 
belief that identifying the specific potential litigation matter would have compromised the 
purpose for the executive session.  Therefore, we find that the council did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. 
 
Finally, although not raised in the complaint, we remind the Council of its obligations 
with respect to executive session meeting minutes.  The Council has represented that it 
ultimately decided not to initiate litigation in the matter discussed.  Executive session minutes 
may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as publication may defeat the lawful 
purposes of the executive session, but no longer.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f).  When the purpose for a 
valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the 
session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the public 
records law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, from disclosure.  See id.  Public bodies 
have an obligation to review the minutes of executive sessions at reasonable intervals to 
determine if continued non-disclosure of minutes is warranted, and to announce that 
determination at the next meeting following its review.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1); see OML 2019-
35; OML 2015-94; OML 2013-56.  As the Council has decided not to pursue litigation in the 
matter discussed, we encourage the Council to review whether the minutes of the April 29 
executive session may be released to the public, in their entirety or with redactions. 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  Please 
feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.  
 
 
Sincerely,  
  
  
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
  
cc: Owen Smith (via email: )  
Newburyport City Council (via email: ECameron@newburyportma.gov) 
Newburyport City Clerk (via email: RJones@newburyportma.gov) 
 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  