===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
October 27, 2015 
OML 2015-162 
Lauren Clifford Galvin, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Loomey & Lehane, LLP 
300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410 
Quincy, MA 02169 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Galvin: 
This office received a complaint from Michelle Saber on May 12, 2015, alleging that 
the Bedford Field Partnership Group (the Group) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Group does not follow the Open 
Meeting Law. The complaint was originally filed with the Town of Bedford (the Town) on or 
about March 4, 2015, and you responded, on behalf of the Town, to the complaint by letter 
dated March 31, 2015. 
Following our review, we find that the Group is not a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, thus it could not have violated the Law's requirements. In reaching this 
decision, we reviewed the original complaint, the response, the request for further review filed 
with our office, which included additional materials, as well as both parties' supplemental 
responses with additional supporting materials. 
We find the facts as follows. Since 2010, a group primarily comprised of Town staff 
gets together periodically to discuss the usage, development, and maintenance of the Town 
athletic fields. This group refers to itself as the "Field Partnership Group" (the Group) and is 
referred to as such during meetings of public bodies. The staff members who normally 
participate in the Group are the Recreation Director, Assistant Recreation Director/Recreation 
Program Coordinator, Public Works Director, Public Works Group Operations Manager, and 
the School Athletics Director. The Town Manager and/or members of the Board of 
Selectmen (the Board) and School Committee will also usually attend and participate in such 
discussions and then report back to their respective boards on the status of the Group's work. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
The Group was not created by the Board or by any other public body or bylaw. There 
is no set membership or quorum requirement. The Group does, however, make 
recommendations to various public bodies on certain matters. For example, in the past, the 
Group has made recommendations to the Board about setting fees for usage of the fields, 
although the Group itself does not have the authority to set the fees. Over the last few years, 
the Group has also discussed various options for developing a new athletic field, which were 
presented to the Board for its decision earlier this year. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law defines a "public body," in relevant part, as "a multiple 
member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative 
branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed 
or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]" G.L. c. 30A, § 18, To 
determine whether the Group is a public body subject to the OML, there are three factors we 
consider that apply to all public bodies: 
1. The entity must be "within" government and not excluded from the definition of 
"public body"; 
2. The entity must be a "body," empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a "public purpose." 
The Group satisfies the first and third prongs of this test, but not the second. It is 
"within" government and serves a public purpose because it concerns usage, development, 
and maintenance of Town fields. See OML 2015-34 (where an entity is not clearly placed 
within government by law, it may still be "within" government if the government played a 
significant role in creating or structuring the group, the government has control over the 
group, and the group primarily performs an essentially governmental function). Because the 
Group consists of Town employees and public body members, the Town government clearly 
has control over it. And the Group's discussions about the Town's athletic fields clearly serve 
a public purpose. 
However, the Group does not meet the second prong of this test because it does not 
have a defined membership that is empowered to act collectively. See OML 2012-20; OML 
2015-46. Although the Group makes recommendations to the Board, it consists of primarily 
Town staff with no set quorum of members required in order to make a decision. See OML 
2013-70. Rather, various Town employees and officials choose whether to attend and 
participate in any particular meeting and their presence or absence does not affect the 
outcome of any action taken at the meeting. Without a defined membership, the Group fails 
the second prong of our test, thus we find that it is not a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law and did not violate it. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Group is not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law, thus it could not have violated its requirements. We now consider the 
complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not 
address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Group. Please feel 
free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Michelle Saber 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 