===PAGE 1===
THE C OMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE AS HBURTON PLAC E 
BOSTON, MAS SACHUSETTS 02 1 0 8 
(6 17)7 27-2 20 0 
www.mas s.gov/ago 
July 8 ,2 013 
OM L 2 0 1 3 -8 9 
D. M. Mo sch os, Esq . 
Mirick O 'Con nell 
100 Fro nt Street 
Wo rcester, M A 01608 
RE: Op en Meetin g Law Comp laint 
Dear A ttorney Mo schos: 
This office received a complaint from Dr. Ralph Hicks, dated May 9, 2012, alleging that 
the David Prouty Sch ool Building Comm ittee (the " Bu ild ing Comm ittee") violated the Open 
Meetin g Law, G.L . c. 30A, §§ 18 -25. The complaint was originally filed with the Building 
Comm ittee on or about April 19, 2012, and the Building Comm ittee respo nded to the original 
com plaint by letter dated May 1, 20 12. In his comp laint. Dr. Hicks allege s that 1) the notice fo r 
the Building Com mittee's April 1 7, 2012 meeting did not list all the top ics the Chair reason ably 
anticip ated for discussion; 2) the Building Comm ittee did not give D r. H icks notice that it would 
discuss his rem oval from the Building Comm itte e; and 3) the Building Comm ittee delib erated 
outside of an open meetin g, deciding in advance how it would vote on h is resignatio n o r 
rem ova l. 
We review ed the April 19, 2012 com plaint filed with the Building Comm itte e; the 
Building Co mmittee's May 1, 2012 respon se to that complaint; the May 9, 2012 com plaint filed 
with o ur office; tw o n otices for the Building Co mmittee's April 17, 201 2 m eeting; the m inutes 
from the Building Co mmittee's April 17, 2012 o pen session meetin g; and letters from the 
Building Com mittee's counsel, dated Jun e 29, 2 012 and August 1, 2 012 , respo nding to requests 
from our office for certain d ocu ments and inform atio n. 
We app reciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Followin g our 
review, w e find that th e B uilding Co mmittee's April 17, 2012 m eeting notice failed to list the 
top ic regarding Dr. H icks removal with enou gh specificity to ad vise th e public of the issue to be 
discussed, an d that the Building Comm ittee failed to conspicuou sly record thereon o r therewith 
the tim e and date th at the revised notice was posted. We are unable to determine whether a 
notice was posted 48 hou rs in advance of the Building Co mmittee's A pril 1 7, 2 012 meetin g that 
included those top ics the Chair reasonably anticipated d iscussing. Finally , we find no eviden ce 
that the Building Comm ittee deliberated outsid e of an open meeting. 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 

===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
Based upo n our review of the material listed abo ve, the facts are as follow s. 
The B uild ing Comm ittee is a 16-m ember public body, thus nine members con stitute a 
quo rum for purposes of the Open M eeting Law . 
On March 28, 2012, the Building C ommittee posted notice to the Spencer-Ea st 
Bro okfield Regional Sch ool Dist ric t's website for two meetings, to be held on April 3, 201 2 and 
April 17, 2012 , respectively. The agenda for both m eetings consisted o f one item , "Continued 
discus s [s ic] of Feasibility S tudy and Sch ematic De sig n." According to the Building Comm ittee, 
the age nda was prepared by the School District's Project Manager, Trip E lmore, who then 
forwarded it to the Superintend ent of Schools for posting . At the time the notices w ere posted, 
only one discussion topic was reasonably anticip ated by Mr. Elmore. However, after the notices 
were posted, it b ecame evident that ad ditional topics might be discussed at the April 17, 201 2 
meeting. About a week before that meeting. Building C ommittee member Paul F oumier s poke 
with Building Comm ittee C hair Gle nn Nelson to request that consideration of Dr. H icks' 
removal from the Building Comm ittee be a dde d to the age nda for th e A pril 1 7, 2 012 meeting. 
At som e time prio r to the April 1 7, 201 2 meeting, Mr. Foumier also spo ke with Superintend ent 
Reza Namin, also a B uilding C ommittee member, regarding the topic. The Building C ommittee 
asserts that there was no other discussion between and among C ommittee m embers prior to the 
meetin g regarding this to pic . 
The B uilding C ommittee con tends that on A pril 12, 20 12, it p osted to the Sch ool District 
website an amende d agenda that listed seven topics for discussion. However, the Building 
Comm ittee failed to c onspicuou sly record thereon or therewith the date and time the revised 
notice was posted. The amended agenda c ontained the follow ing discussion topic: "IT Consider 
an administrative matte r relative to a m ember of the Sch ool Building C ommittee, potential 
Vo te." On April 16, 2012 at 7:52 P M, M r. Elmo re sent an email to the Building Comm ittee 
members and three other individuals with the subject line "SB C Me eting age nda and meetin g 
minutes from 4-3-12 , with attachments from Design Partnership ." The body of th e email states, 
"Plea se see the attached for tomorrow's meetin g. Sorry for the late delivery. I will brin g hard 
cop ies with m e. Trip." The revised , seven-topic agenda was attached to the email. 
On the morning of April 1 7, 201 2, D r. H icks sent a reply email to Mr. Elmore , with 
cop ies to a ll of the Building Comm ittee m embers, in w hich he states, " I assume item #2 is Mr. 
Fo urnier's attem pt to rem ove m e from the buildin g co mm ittee." Dr. Hicks th en recounted his 
qualifications for se rvice on the Building Comm ittee, and expressed his disapproval of the 
Building Co mmittee's potential action to rem ove him .1 
That e vening, the Building Comm ittee held an open meeting. The minutes reflect that the 
Comm ittee discussed Dr. Hicks' prior service as Superintendent of S chools for the District, 
1 We rem ind the com pla inant that c om mu nic atio ns betw een or among a q uor um of memb ers of a p ubl ic body on a ny 
pub lic bus ine ss within the pub lic bo dy 's j uri sdi ctio n i s delib eration, a nd mus t occu r d uring a m eeting . G.L . c . 30A, 
§ 18. Ou r o ffic e h as fou nd tha t an email s ent b y a me mb er o f a pub lic bod y to a quo rum of the pub lic bod y o n 
pub lic bus ine ss within the bo dy 's j urisdictio n con stitues an individ ual violation of t he Op en Me etin g L aw, ev en 
where no oth er memb er res pon ds. See OM L 201 2-9 3; OM L 2 011 -37 (Op en Me etin g L aw determ ina tion s m ay be 
found at t he Attorn ey Ge ne ral's web site, ww w.m ass .go v/a go/ ope nm eeting .) 
2 

===PAGE 3===
noting that th is posed " inh ere nt conflicts" rela tive to the current school a dministration 
"concerning matters that concern or are within the jur isdiction " of the Building Comm ittee. The 
min utes reflect that B uild ing Comm ittee m ember Paul F oumier then made a motion, which was 
seconded by member Jos hua C ote, sta ting as follows: 
I m ove tha t the School Building Comm ittee vote to respectfully request th at Dr. Ralph 
Hicks resign from this C ommittee, since he is no longer serving as th e D istri ct's 
Superintend ent of Scho ols and , furtherm ore, if Dr. Ralph Hicks does not resign within 
fourteen days from the date of th is vote, that the Chairm an the n subm it a written request 
on behalf of this Scho ol B uilding Committee to the School Comm ittee, to respectfully 
request that the Sch ool Comm ittee seek Dr. Hicks' resignatio n o r that he otherw ise be 
rem ove d from this Committee for the reason s cited in d iscussion. 
The vote passed, with nine m embers voting in favor, four opposed, and three abstaining. 
DISCUSSIO N 
1. We are Unable to R esolve whether the Building Comm ittee Properly Listed in the Notic e 
for its April 17 . 2012 Meeting th e Topics the Chair Rea sonably A ntic ipated Discussing, 
but Find that the Buildin g C ommittee Failed to C onspicuo usly R ecord Thereon or 
Therewith the Date and Tim e the Revised Notice w as Posted. 
The complaint allege s that the notice for the Building Co mmittee's April 17, 20 12 
meeting did not list all the topics the Chair reasonably anticip ated for discussion. The O pen 
Meetin g L aw requires a public body to post a notic e 48 h ours in adv ance of a m eeting that 
includes a "listing of topics that the chair reason ably anticipates w ill be d iscussed at the 
me eting." G.L. c. 3 0A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list top ics in a meetin g notice with 
"su fficie nt spe cificity to reasonably advise th e public of the issues to be discussed at the 
me eting." 940 CM R 29 .03(l)( b). We gen erally consider a to pic to include sufficient specificity 
when a reason able m ember of the pub lic could read the top ic and und erstand the anticip ated 
nature of the pub lic bo dy 's discussion. See O ML 2013-55 ; OML 2011-7. The date and time that 
a notic e is posted must be c onspicuou sly recorded thereon or th erewith. 940 CM R 29 .03(l)( b). 
If a notice is revised, th e revised notice must also cons picuou sly record on or with th e notice 
both the date and tim e the original notice was posted as w ell as the date and tim e the last revision 
was posted. OM L 2 013-4 4. 
Mr. Elmore only antic ipated that th e B uild ing Comm ittee w ould d iscuss one topic at its 
April 17, 2012 meetin g when, acting on behalf of the Chair, he created the meetin g agenda. 
However, after the meetin g notice was posted, it b ecame evident to the Chair tha t ad ditiona l 
top ics mig ht be d iscussed at the meetin g. The Building Comm ittee contends that on April 12, 
201 2 it poste d to the Sch ool District website an amended agenda listing sev en top ics for 
discussion. The B uilding C ommittee was unable to provide evidenc e that the revised agenda 
was posted to the Sch ool Dist ric t's website on A pril 1 2, 2012, however. Mr. Elmore distributed 
the revised a genda to the members of the Building Comm ittee on A pril 16, 201 2. Because we 
can not verify whether the Buildin g C ommittee posted the revised notice 48 hours in a dvance of 
its April 17, 2012 meeting, w e are unab le to resolve this allegation. However, we find that the 
Building Comm ittee violated the Open M eeting Law by failing to con spicuo usly record thereon 
or therew ith the tim e and date that the revised notice was posted. 940 C MR 29.03(1 )(b); OML 
3 

===PAGE 4===
201 3-44 (noting tha t "Record ing the date and time enab les the public to observ e that public 
bod ies are com plying with the Open M eeting Law 's notice requirements w ithout requiring 
con stant vigilance. A dditionally, it p rov ides this office w ith eviden ce of compliance with the 
Open Me etin g Law 's notice requirements.") 
Additionally, we note that even if th e revised noticed was timely posted, it failed to state 
the topic regarding Dr. H icks ' removal w ith sufficient sp ecificity. According to the Building 
Co mmittee's August 1, 2012 letter to our office, about a week prio r to the April 1 7, 2012 
meetin g, Building Comm itte e m ember Foum ier spo ke with the Building Comm itte e Chair to 
request that c onsideration o f Dr. H icks' rem oval from the Building Comm ittee be added to the 
agenda . Altho ugh the Chair clearly understood the nature of the top ic, it was listed in the 
meetin g notice only as "C onsid er an administrative m atter relative to a member of the School 
Building Comm ittee, potential Vote." The B uild ing Comm ittee should hav e sp ecifically stated 
that it w as con sidering a vote regarding Dr. Hick s' membership on the Building Comm ittee. 
2. The B uilding Committee was N ot Req uired to P rov ide Dr. Hicks w ith Notice of the 
Topics A nticipated for Discussion for the April 1 7. 2012 Me etin g. 
Dr. H icks alleges that the Building Comm ittee failed to p rovide him with n otic e that the 
Building Comm ittee w ould consider h is removal at its A pril 17, 2 012 meeting. If the Building 
Comm ittee had entered into exe cutive session under Purpose 1 to consider D r. H ick s' dismissal, 
then it w ould have been require d to provide him with w ritten notice 48 hours prio r to the 
meeting. See G .L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1 ). Bec ause it held this discussion in open session, ho wever, 
the Building Comm ittee w as not o bligated to provide D r. H icks with individ ual notice that it 
would be c onsidering his rem ova l. See OML 201 3-41; O ML 2013-24 ; O ML 2011-41. 
3. We Find No Evidence that th e Building Committee Deliberated Outsid e of an O pen 
Meetin g Regarding a Vote to Remove Dr. Hicks from the Building Comm ittee. 
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Building Comm ittee delib erated outside of an 
open meetin g to agree to rem ove Dr. H icks from the Building Comm itte e. "Deliberat ion " is 
defined, in part, as "a n ora l or w ritten c ommunication through any medium, including electro nic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a pub lic body on any pub lic business within its 
jur isdiction ." G.L. c . 3OA, § 18. After Mr. Elmore posted the original meetin g notice. Building 
Comm itte e m ember Fourn ier spoke with the Chair and requested that D r. H icks' removal be 
add ed to the meetin g agen da. Mr. Foum ier also informed Superintend ent Namin a bou t the topic. 
In total, it a ppe ars that only three Building Comm ittee m embers discussed the topic. A quorum 
of the Building Comm ittee is nine members. We have not been provided with any evidence to 
sug gest that com municatio n occurred between and among a quorum of the Building Com mittee 
regarding rem oval of D r. Hicks from the Building Comm ittee, therefore we find no violatio n. 
CONCLUSIO N 
We find that the B uild ing Co mmittee's April 17, 20 12 meeting notice failed to list the 
topic regarding Dr. Hicks removal with eno ugh spec ificity to a dvise the public of the issue to be 
discus sed , and that the Building Comm ittee failed to cons picuou sly record thereon or therewith 
the tim e and date that the revised notice was po sted. We are unable to determ ine whether a 
4 

===PAGE 5===
notice was posted 48 hours in advance of the Building Co mmittee's April 17, 2012 meeting that 
included those topics the Chair reasonably anticip ated d iscussing. We find no evidence that the 
Building C ommittee delib erated outsid e of an open meetin g. We order the Building 
Co mmittee's immediate and future com plia nce with the Open Me etin g Law , and caution that a 
sim ilar fu ture violation may be considered eviden ce o f an intentiona l violatio n of the law. 
We now con sider the com plaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determ ination does not addre ss any other complain ts which may be pen ding w ith our office or 
the Building Comm itte e. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 9 63-2540 if you have any 
questions or believe any facts in this letter to be inaccu rate. 
Sin cerely, 
/Jon atha n Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Div ision of Open Government 
cc: David Prouty Sch ool Building Comm ittee 
Dr. Ralph Hicks 
Th is determ ination w as issued pursuant to G .L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
memb er of a b ody agg rieved by this order may obtain jud icia l review through an action 
file d in Superior Court pur suant to G .L. c. 30A, § 23(d). Th e complaint must be filed in 
Superio r Court w ithin twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
5 
