===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL ONE ASHBURTON PLACE BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108  (617) 727-2200  (617) 727-4765 TTY  www.mass.gov/ago  
 April 29, 2020         OML 2020 – 54  VIA EMAIL  Daniel Hoort Wellfleet Town Administrator 300 Main Street Wellfleet, MA 02667 Dan.Hoort@wellfleet-ma.gov     RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  Dear Mr. Hoort: This office received a complaint from Judith Ahern on October 8, 2019, alleging that the Wellfleet Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally received by the Board on August 16, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated August 27.1 In her complaint, Ms. Ahern alleges that the Board deliberated at a meeting on July 16 for which no notice was posted.2 Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a properly noticed meeting. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. Included in our review were a video of the July 16 meeting, numerous emails relating to the planning of the July 16 meeting, a social media post by a member of the public alerting other members of the public about the July 16 meeting, and a transcript prepared by Ms. Ahern of the Board’s questions at the July 16 meeting. We also reviewed the Board’s May 23 and August 27 meeting minutes and the Wellfleet town website for the “Presentation of 208 Plan” notice.                                                               1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2019. 2 We decline to review any additional allegations contained in the request for further review that were not included in the original complaints filed with the public body. Our office does not conduct broad audits of public bodies and will address only specific allegations made in an Open Meeting Law complaint. See OML 2020-2; OML Declination 4-22-15 (Natick Economic Development Committee). 
===PAGE 2===
2  
FACTS We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body, thus three members constitute a quorum. At the Board’s May 23 meeting, the Town’s Health and Conservation Agent (the “Health Agent”) spoke to the Board regarding the Town’s 208 Plan and the Comprehensive Wastewater Management Plan. After some discussion, the Board asked the Health Agent to coordinate a meeting between relevant town officials, town boards and state officials from the Department of Environmental Protection and the Cape Code Commission. After sending several emails to coordinate a time, the Health Agent scheduled the meeting to discuss the status of the 208 Plan for Tuesday, July 16, at noon.  The Board did not post notice for the meeting as the Board believed that, since the Health Agent organized the meeting, the meeting was not a Board meeting. On Saturday, July 13, at 5:40 p.m., Board member Helen Wilson emailed the general Board email account and the Health Agent regarding the lack of notice. Copying the Town Administrator and many other town and personal email accounts, Ms. Wilson informed the Board that no notice was posted for the meeting on either the Town’s website or the Town’s physical notice posting board. Wellfleet’s official notice posting location is the Town’s website. Ms. Wilson stated that the meeting was important and could be held on Wednesday at the earliest, due to the lack of notice.  After Ms. Wilson’s email, a notice for a “Presentation of 208 Plan” was posted to the Town’s website giving the date, time and place of the meeting. The Board’s August 27 meeting minutes make clear that this notice was posted less than 48 hours before the July 16 meeting took place and did not specify that the meeting was a meeting of the Board.  On July 16, all Board members attended the meeting with the Department of Environmental Protection and Cape Cod Commission officials. Despite some confusion regarding the time of the meeting, approximately fifty members of the public attended. The officials from the Department of Environmental Protection and Cape Cod Commission were seated as a panel at a table at the front of the room along with the Town’s Health Agent and a member of the Comprehensive Wastewater Management Planning Committee. Members of the Select Board sat together in the first row of the audience. Board members were informed that they could not deliberate at the meeting, since the meeting was not posted as a Board meeting. After approximately forty minutes of presentation by members of the panel, the meeting was opened for questions. Board members were the first to ask questions and each Board member asked at least one question.  DISCUSSION I. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Deliberating Outside of a Properly Noticed Meeting.   The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Thus, the Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, 
===PAGE 3===
3  
§ 20(b). The Open Meeting Law defines a “meeting” as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” broadly as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is generally a simple majority of the members of the public body. Id.  Here, the Board does not dispute that more than a quorum of the Board attended the July 16 meeting and that Board members asked questions during the question and answer portion of the meeting. These questions included Board members’ opinions on the topics of contingency planning, data collection, and funding, all of which were topics within the Board’s jurisdiction.  For example, one Board member commented “I feel it would be irresponsible for the town not to have a contingency plan … why aren’t we looking for a plan to regionalize this [wastewater] situation with Eastham and possibly Truro? I know each town is different and has its separate needs … but I look at the situation as more of the three towns together.” Another Board member recommended that a state official talk to the Town’s Shellfish Constable for access to a large and “awesome” database that might be useful in the planning process. Yet another Board member commented on the need to secure funding in order to pursue some of the possible next steps in the Plan. We find that these questions and comments constitute deliberation under the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2019-84 (holding that a public body’s “workshop” constituted a meeting under the Open Meeting Law, although it was not called a “meeting”). See also OML 2020-18; OML 2019-103 (a quorum of a public body may attend the meeting of another public body without posting notice so long as the visiting public body members listen and participate as members of the audience and do not deliberate).3   The Board acknowledges that the meeting was not posted “as a Selectboard meeting” and that the only notice posted to the Town website was posted within 48 hours of the meeting. Therefore, we find that the Board failed to post notice 48 hours in advance of the meeting and deliberated outside of a properly noticed meeting, in violation of the Law.  II. We Decline to Find that the Board’s Violation was Intentional.   We must determine whether the violation was, as the complainant urges, intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the Law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting Law. Id.   Here, the Board was twice informed that no notice had been timely posted for the July 16 meeting. First, the Board was notified by one of its members on Saturday July 13 that no notice was posted on the Town’s website. Ms. Wilson’s email, sent to the Board’s email address amongst others, specifically stated that the “[notice will] have to be posted and the earliest we could have [the meeting] is on Wednesday.” Second, Board members were informed that during the July 16 meeting they could not deliberate, since the meeting was not posted as a Board                                                              3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
meeting. Although the Board was clearly aware that timely notice was not posted for the July 16 
meeting, we find that the Board members sincerely, albeit incorrectly, believed that the manner 
in which they participated at the July 16 meeting, by asking questions of and making comments 
to the panel rather than speaking directly to each other, did not constitute deliberation. Therefore, 
we decline to find the violation to be intentional.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating 
outside of a properly noticed meeting. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar 
violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 We also order the Board, in open session at its next meeting after the receipt of this 
determination, to review the comments that Board members made during the July 16 
presentation and to include those comments in the meeting minutes of the new meeting. 
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Chase 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Judith Ahern (via e-mail:  ) 
  
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
