===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
June 14, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 114 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Joseph Duquette, Esq.  
K.P. Law P.C.  
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Duquette: 
This office received two complaints from Thomas Carmody on January 14, 2022, 
alleging that the Lanesborough Town Administrator Search Committee (the “Committee”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed 
with the Committee on November 23.1 As the Committee had disbanded as of the date the 
complaints were filed, the Lanesborough Select Board met on December 14 to discuss and 
delegate the responsibility of responding to the complaints to you. You responded on behalf of 
the Select Board by letter dated December 28. In his complaints, Mr. Carmody alleges that the 
Committee deliberated outside of a posted meeting via email.2 
Following our review, we find that four of the Committee’s members violated the Open 
Meeting Law in one instance by deliberating outside of a posted meeting via email. We find no 
violation with respect to the other two members. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaints, the Board’s response to the complaints, and the complainant’s requests for 
further review. We also reviewed copies of the email communications which Mr. Carmody 
alleges contain deliberation by some members of the Committee.  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 We decline to review any additional allegations made in the request for further review. Our office does not conduct 
broad audits of public bodies and will address only allegations made in an Open Meeting Law complaint in order to 
give public bodies an opportunity to address those allegations. See OML Declination 4-22-15; OML Declination 8-
25-2015; OML 2013-118; OML 2013-60. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
DISCUSSION 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-
(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, 
however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling 
information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or 
documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (emphasis added). For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a 
quorum is “a simple majority of the members of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A one-way 
communication from one public body member to a quorum on business within a body’s 
jurisdiction is deliberation, even if no other members respond. See OML 2020-136.3  
  Mr. Carmody alleges that the Committee’s Chair, Kristen Tool, deliberated outside of a 
posted meeting when she emailed all Select Board members on August 11 regarding a negative 
personal interaction she had with a town employee at the Lanesborough Town Hall. In response 
to this email, each Select Board member responded individually to Chair Tool with how he 
thought the complaint should be handled over the next few days. As Chair Tool was the only 
member of the Committee included on this email chain, we find no deliberation by the 
Committee in this case, as a quorum of the Committee was not involved in the exchange.4  
 However, we do find that four members of the Committee deliberated outside of a posted 
meeting during an email exchange that took place between August 10 and 13. The first email 
was sent by Chair Tool on August 10 to the full Committee requesting that other members not 
make public comments on the Committee’s work, as one member had done at a Select Board 
meeting the previous night. Over the next few days, Committee Members Barb Hassan, Mark 
Siegars, and Jen Lyon all responded to the full Committee to comment on what the Committee’s 
communications policy should be. Committee Member Gwen Miller replied on August 11 only 
to caution her fellow members that the topic could be considered deliberation and therefore 
ought to be discussed at a posted meeting. Committee Member Bill Mahon did not respond to 
any of the messages.  
 We find that the emails of Committee Members Hassan, Siegars, and Lyon, as well as the 
initial email from Chair Tool, constituted improper deliberation because a quorum of the 
Committee discussed the Committee’s communications policy, which is a matter of public 
business that should be reserved for an open meeting. See OML 2022-91; OML 2018-9; OML 
2011-38. We therefore find that these four members violated the Open Meeting Law. We find no 
violation with respect to Member Mahon, who did not respond to the email chain, or Member 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
4 Mr. Carmody’s complaints was not filed against the Select Board, nor would we find deliberation by the Select 
Board in this case, as all Select Board members responded to Chair Tool individually.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Miller, who merely warned the other members not to deliberate outside of a posted meeting. See 
OML 2020-83; OML 2018-6 (finding no violation of the Open Meeting Law where a public 
body member attempted to warn another public body member against violating the Open 
Meeting Law). 
 Finally, we must determine whether the four Committee members’ violation was, as the 
complainant urges, intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or 
omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting 
Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with 
deliberate ignorance of the Law’s requirements or has previously been advised that certain 
conduct violates the Open Meeting Law. Id. Here, the Board has not previously been warned that 
deliberation via email violates the Open Meeting Law. In addition, we find no specific evidence 
that the Committee acted with deliberate ignorance of the Law’s requirements. Therefore, we 
decline to find an intentional violation. 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that four of the Committee’s members violated the 
Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a posted meeting via email. As the Committee has 
completed its work and disbanded, we direct the Select Board, within 30 days of receipt of this 
letter, to publicly release the August 10 through 13 email chain in which the four members of the 
Committee deliberated via email. The Select Board may publicly release the e-mail chain by 
reading its content during a meeting and listing the e-mails in the meeting minutes, or by 
referencing the emails during a meeting and posting the e-mails along with the minutes on the 
Committee’s website. 
 As the Committee has disbanded, we order no further relief at this time. If the Committee 
is reinstated in the future, we order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law and caution the Committee that a determination by our office of a similar 
violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Thomas Carmody (via e-mail:  
 Lanesborough Town Administrator c/o Administrative Assistant  
 (via e-mail:  
 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 