===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 14, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 107 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Alexander M. Castro, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Castro: 
 
This office received two complaints from Allen Waller on December 1 and 3, 2021,1 
alleging that the Marblehead Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The first complaint was filed with the Board on October 22, and, after an 
extension of time granted by this office, you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated 
November 22. The second complaint was filed with the Board on November 1, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated November 22.  
 
The first complaint alleges that the minutes for the Board’s August 25 meeting were not 
“published” until October 21 and that they fail to include a list of documents used at the meeting. 
The first complaint additionally alleges: “[p]urpose for executive session insufficiently specific.” 
The second complaint alleges that notices for the Board’s meetings held on November 2 were 
insufficient in several respects. 
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a) and find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to list 
the documents used at its August 25 meeting in the minutes for that meeting. We find that the 
Board did not otherwise violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the Board’s responses, the requests for further 
review, and the notices for the Board’s meetings held on November 2 at 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2021 unless otherwise stated. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
I. The First Complaint  
 
First, with respect to the allegation that the Board did not “publish” the minutes for its 
August 25 meeting until October 21, we find no violation. The Open Meeting Law does not 
require that public bodies post their minutes to a website or elsewhere. Rather, the Open Meeting 
Law requires that minutes be created and approved in a timely manner and made available, if 
they exist, within 10 days of a request. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); see OML 2020-78.2  
 
Second, the complaint alleges that the Board failed to list the documents used at its 
August 25 meeting in the minutes for that meeting, as is required by the Open Meeting Law. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The Board does not dispute this. Instead, the Board notes that the 
Complainant did not identify any particular documents he believed were used at the meeting but 
not included in the minutes. Additionally, the Board explains that in an effort to comply with 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a) it has since created and posted a list of all documents referenced in the 
notice for the August 25 meeting. Therefore, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to list the documents used at the August 25 meeting in the minutes for that 
meeting. We find that the Board has since taken appropriate remedial action where the minutes 
for the August 25 meeting now include a list of the documents used at the meeting. 
 
Finally, we find the complaint unclear as to the allegation “[p]urpose for the executive 
session insufficiently specific.” To the extent the complaint alleges that the notice for the August 
25 executive session insufficiently described the topic to be discussed, this allegation was the 
subject of a separate Open Meeting Law complaint. In OML 2021-186, we found that the Board 
failed to describe the purpose for the August 25 executive session in sufficient detail, in violation 
of the Open Meeting Law. To the extent this complaint alleges that the minutes of the August 25 
meeting fail to adequately capture the stated purpose for the executive session, we find that the 
minutes accurately capture the stated purpose for the executive session, although the statement 
itself may have been inadequate. See OML 2021-128 (explaining that meeting minutes must 
accurately capture the discussion that occurred and that it is improper to add content that was not 
actually discussed or conveyed during the meeting). 
 
II. The Second Complaint  
 
The second complaint was filed with the Board on November 1 and alleges that the 
notices for the Board’s November 2 meetings, one held at 6:00 p.m. and the other at 7:00 p.m., 
were insufficient. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the notice for the Board’s 6:00 p.m. 
meeting was insufficient with respect to the executive session topic regarding litigation and 
where the notice did not identify the specific executive session meeting minutes to be reviewed. 
The complaint also alleges that the notice for the Board’s 7:00 p.m. meeting was insufficient 
because “the description of the items listed [under the heading ‘Votes’] are generally 
indecipherable.”  
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Notices must include “a 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” Id. The 
list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). Executive session topics must be described, both 
in the meeting notice and in an announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 
567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary . 
. . because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct 
business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was 
proper or improper”). 
 
Generally, when reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly 
insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting notice standing alone; rather, we review what 
was discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently detailed to make the 
public aware of the discussion topics. See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155. Here, however, the 
complaint was filed prior to the meetings; therefore, we review whether, on their face, the notices 
were sufficient to notify the public of the topics the chair reasonably anticipated the Board would 
discuss. See OML 2015-116. We find that the notices met this requirement, and therefore find no 
violation. We encourage the Complainant, in the future, to reach out to the Board if he believes a 
notice may lack sufficient specificity, rather than file an Open Meeting Law complaint prior to 
the meeting.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include a list of the documents used at its August 25 meeting in the minutes for that 
meeting. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law 
and caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
cc: Marblehead Board of Selectmen c/o Kyle Wiley, Administrative Aide (via email: 
) 
Allen Waller (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
