===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
February 9, 2012 
OML 2012 - 7 
Mr. Michael Costello 
Chairman, Board of Selectmen 
Town of Rehoboth 
148 Peck Street 
Rehoboth, MA 02769 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chairman Costello: 
This office received complaints from Mr. Arthur J. Kelley, Jr. on March 22, 2011, 
Ms. Colleen McBride on April 19, 2011, and Ms. Susan Pimental on April 20, 2011, 
alleging that the Rehoboth Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. All three complaints allege that the Board's meeting on 
February 28, 2011 at 12:00 p.m. did not meet the requirements for an emergency under 
the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(b). Specifically, the original complaint 
filed with the Board by Mr. Kelley alleges that "Nile Board of Selectmen posted their 
'emergency' meeting at 10:40AM Monday, February 28, 2011. They had their meeting 
at 12:00PM on Monday, February 28, 2011 for the sole purpose of placing three non-
binding questions on the Town election ballot for April 4, 2011...These questions were 
not sudden, unexpected nor demanded immediate action." The complaints also allege 
that the Board did not post notice at least 48 hours prior to the meeting. 
Mr. Kelley and Ms. McBride filed their original complaints with the Board and 
Town Clerk on March 1, 2011. Ms. Pimental filed her original complaint with the Board 
and Town Clerk on March 2, 2011. The Board's response to all three complaints was 
received by this office on March 21, 2011. 
1 
===PAGE 2===
We reviewed the original complaints filed with the Board and Town Clerk, the 
Board's March 21, 2011 response, and the three complaints filed with this office. We 
also reviewed the Board's minutes from its February 28, 2011 and March 14, 2011 • 
meetings, a written statement from Interim Town Administrator Helen Dennen dated 
April 13, 2011, -and copies of e-mails exchanged between Town officials and Town 
Counsel. Finally, we interviewed Board members Kenneth J. Foley and Donald J. 
Leffort by telephone on May 12, 2011. 
We find that the Board's meeting on February 28, 2011 at 12:00 p.m. was not 
held for an appropriate emergency purpose. Because there was no genuine emergency, 
the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting notice only 90 minutes before its 
meeting, rather than giving the 48 hour notice required by the Law. 
FACTS 
The Town of Rehoboth convened a Special Town Meeting on November 8, 2010. 
The Town Meeting considered three articles. According to Ms. McBride's original 
complaint, the first was regarding "a change of 3 to 5 Selectmen," the second was 
"regarding [a] mandatory [Criminal Offender Record Information] check" for elected and 
appointed officials, and the third was regarding "changing [r]ecall requirements." Ms. 
McBride states that the first of these articles was approved at the Special Town Meeting 
and the second and third articles were rejected. 
, According to Interim Town Administrator Helen Dennen, "[s]ometime early 
February 2011 to mid-February 2011 the Board of Selectmen, specifically [Kenneth] 
Foley, expressed a desire to place non-binding questions on the April 4, 2011 Election 
Warrant relative to certain issues." At the time, the Board consisted of only two 
members, Kenneth J. Foley, Chairman, and Donald J. Leffort. The non-binding questions 
under consideration were similar to the three articles that had been voted on at the Special 
Town Meeting in November 2010. Ms. Dennen recounted the ensuing events as follows: 
At that time in early February I spoke to the Town Clerk, Kathleen Conti and 
inquired as to what date any questions for the April 4, 2011 Election Warrant 
must be received by her office. She gave me the dates and I came back to my 
office and wrote down March 3, 2011 with a notation "non-binding ballot 
questions due date." I on two occasions reminded Mr. Foley that if the Board 
wished to place questions on the Election Warrant, the wording for the non-
binding questions must be voted on by the Board and submitted to the Town 
Clerk, advising him that it must be submitted by March 3, 2011. On [Friday] 
February 25, 2011, when preparing the agenda for the Board of Selectmen's 
February 28, 2011 meeting, I checked with the Town Clerk, who was out of the 
office and at home, to confirm that in fact the date which the Election Warrant 
questions were due was March 3, 2011, the date which I had handwritten on a 
post-it note. I had assumed that the Board would vote on the questions the 
evening of the February 28, 2011 regular meeting of the Board of Selectmen. The 
Town Clerk, via the Assistant Town Clerk by phone, informed me that the 
2 
===PAGE 3===
questions needed to be submitted to her by Monday, February 28, 2011 by 4:00 
p.m. and that the March 3, 2011 date was the date by which she must actually 
submit the completed ballot for printing. I then advised Mr. Foley, who stated he 
would contact Town Counsel to see how the matter should be handled...I believe 
the question of holding an emergency meeting was discussed with Town Counsel 
also. On Monday morning, February 28, 2011, I spoke to the Town Clerk and 
asked her to come to the meeting [on Monday evening to accept the questions] ... 
I then called Mr. Foley and was about to advise him that she would go to the 
meeting, but Mr. Foley stated he wanted to have an emergency meeting to vote on 
the questions to [e]nsure that they were submitted by the 4:00 p.m. deadline that 
day, February 28, 2011...This conversation took place about 10:30 a.m. on 
February 28, 2011 and the emergency meeting took place at 12:00 noon the same 
date. 	 , 
According to the Board's response to the complaints, "[w]hen [the Board] 
discovered that an error had been made and that such vote must take place on February 
28, 2011...the Board immediately took steps to address the issue, posting notice 
irmnediately..." 
Earlier in the day, at 10:05 a.m. on February 28, 2011, Town Counsel sent an e-
mail to Mr. Foley titled "Non-binding ballot questions" that confirmed the deadline for 
submitting non-binding ballot questions under G.L. c. 54, §42C and proposed the 
following ballot language: 
I have set forth below three draft questions, as you requested. 
Shall the Town seek special legislation to increase the size of the elected Board of 
Selectmen from three members to five members? 
Shall the Town seek special legislation to require a criminal offender record 
information ("CORI") check for its elected and appointed officials?... 
Shall the Town seek special legislation to revise its recall procedures by 
increasing the number of persons required to sign the recall petition and by 
imposing a requirement that a certain percentage of voters of the Town vote on 
the question of recall in order for the recall to be valid? 
However the Board decides, it must vote on the exact language of the proposed 
question and provide notice of the same to the Town Clerk. 
According to the minutes for the "Emergency Board of Selectmen's Meeting 
February 28, 2011 — 12:00 Noon" submitted by the complainants, the Board approved in 
full the language of the three non-binding ballot questions as drafted above by Town 
Counsel. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
The Board then announced at its regular session on Monday evening, February 
28, 2011, that it had held an emergency meeting earlier in the day. The meeting minutes 
of the February 28, 2011 regular session reflect that the three non-binding ballot 
questions were read into the record and the Board voted to approve the minutes of the 
emergency meeting. In addition, the Board's response states that the Board "also voted at 
its March 14, 2011 [regular session] to explicitly ratify, validate and confirm its earlier 
vote on the ballot questions." During the March 14, 2011 meeting, the Board explained 
its reasons for calling the February 28, 2011 emergency meeting, although there was no 
discussion of the reasons why the Board approved the three ballot questions. 
The municipal election was held on April 4, 2011. The non-binding questions 
regarding increasing the size of the Board and requiring CORI information for municipal 
officials were approved by the voters. The non-binding question regarding recall 
procedures was defeated. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that "[e]xcept in an emergency, in addition to 
any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every meeting at 
least 48 hours prior to such meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The Open Meeting Law defines an emergency as "a sudden, 
generally unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding immediate action." 
Id. § 18; 940 CMR 29.02. The burden of justifying the need for an emergency meeting 
falls on the public body. 
The actions taken by the Board present two issues. The first is whether the Board 
faced a genuine emergency, eliminating the need to post notice at least 48 hours in 
advance of its meeting on Monday, February 28, 2011 at 12:00 p.m. The second is 
whether the Board could have posted notice for the meeting sooner than it did, regardless 
of whether there was a genuine emergency. We address the issues in turn. 
Ms. McBride's original complaint alleges that "[t]hese [non-binding ballot] 
questions were not sudden, unexpected, nor demanded immediate action. At least one of 
those questions was discussed at a few selectmen meetings in December, 2010." The 
other complainants assert similar allegations. The Board contends that there was in fact 
an emergency because "the Board had grave concerns that the Town Clerk would not 
accept notice of the Board's vote, which is required by statute, after the close of business 
at 4:00 p.m." During our interview, Mr. Foley reiterated that he felt this was an 
emergency because the Board could not guarantee that the Clerk would accept the ballot 
questions during the regular session on Monday evening. Similarly, Mr. Leffort believed 
immediate action was necessary because the Board needed to meet the deadline. Mr. 
Leffort stated that the consequence of inaction would have been to wait another year to 
put the questions on the Town election ballot. 
While the Chair may have believed the circumstances demanded immediate 
action, the meeting was not held for an appropriate emergency purpose because there was 
4 
===PAGE 5===
no "sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances." Gr. c. 30A, § 
18. If the event precipitating the need for a meeting was anticipated, it may nOt be 
considered an emergency as that term is defined in the statute and regulations. See OML 
2011 — 45 ("Where a public body has advance notice of circumstances that are likely to 
require deliberation, it is not an emergency. Emergency meetings are reserved for 
circumstances that are unanticipated and require an immediate response to, for example, 
protect public safety or health"). Here, neither the filing deadline nor the Board's 
decision to place the questions on the ballot arose suddenly or unexpectedly. We 
understand that the Board was originally given the wrong deadline by Ms. Dennen, 
however the deadline itself never changed, only the Board's awareness of it. In addition, 
the Board's prior actions and statements suggest that the non-binding ballot questions 
were discussed at length in the months leading up to the meeting. When interviewed, Mr. 
Foley stated that the questions had in fact been discussed at previous meetings of the 
Board. For these reasons, we find that the Board did not have a lawful reason to hold an 
emergency meeting. 
Furthermore, even if there had been a true emergency, in an emergency "a public 
body shall post notice as soon as reasonably possible prior to such meeting." G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b). According to Mr. Foley, the decision to hold the emergency meeting on 
Monday was made at 3:30 p.m. on Friday. Apparently, he assumed Ms. Dennen would 
post notice of the meeting when the decision was made. However, Mr. Kelley's 
complaint alleges that "[t]he Board of Selectmen posted their 'emergency' meeting at 
10:40 AM Monday, February 28, 2011." The Board's response states only that the Board 
"posted notice immediately." As the Board believed this to be an emergency, it should 
have posted notice as soon as it made the decision to hold the meeting. 
We acknowledge the Board's efforts after the meeting to disclose the fact of its 
occurrence and its purpose in a timely manner. However, mere affirmation and 
ratification cannot replace transparent discussion of important public issues in open 
session. 
CONCLUSION 
The Board was not justified in holding an emergency meeting on February 28, 
2011 at 12:00 p.m. Because there was no genuine emergency, the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law by posting notice only 90 minutes before its meeting, rather than 
giving the 48 hour notice required by the law. In addition, the Board failed to post notice 
as soon as reasonably possible once it decided to hold the emergency meeting. 
As for remedy, the election has already occurred. Thus, it is impossible for us to 
order the removal of the questions from the ballot, as the complainants requested. Given 
our limited options, we order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, and caution that future similar violationS may result in nullification 
of any action taken at the relevant meeting, and may be considered evidence of intent to 
violate the law. Because we believe the Board was familiar with the law's requirements 
5 
===PAGE 6===
but applied those requirements incorrectly in novel circumstances, we do not order 
additional training on the Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this 
letter, please do not hesitate to contact me at the number below. 
Sincerely, 
fonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
cc: Arthur J. Kelley, Jr. 
cc: Colleen McBride 
cc: Susan Pimental 
6 