===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
        
February 13, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 24 
 
 
Mark R. Reich, Esq.  
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By email only: mreich@k-plaw.com 
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Reich: 
 
This office received a complaint from Samuel Francis on April 15, 2025, and a second 
complaint on May 22, 2025, alleging that the Medway Library Board of Trustees (the “Board”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The first complaint was originally filed 
with the Board on March 4, 2025, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, 
by letter dated March 24, 2025.  The second complaint was originally filed with the Board on 
April 15, 2025, and you
1 responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated May 
5, 2025.  The first complaint alleges that the Board created a subcommittee which failed to post 
notice of a meeting with the Library Director.  The second complaint alleges that the Board 
deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting to discuss the response to the first Open 
Meeting Law complaint.  
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters.  Following 
our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by creating a subcommittee 
that failed to post notice of a meeting.  We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the other way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaints, the Board’s responses to the complaints, the Board’s supplemental response to the 
first complaint dated April 7, 2025, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further 
 
1 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
review.  In addition, we reviewed the notices, minutes and video recordings of the Board 
meetings held on November 6, 2024, December 3, 2024, January 7, 2025, February 11, 2025, 
March 4, 2025, March 19, 2025, and April 1, 2025.2   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board is a five-member public body; thus, three 
members constitute a quorum.   
 
The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on November 6, 2024, at 7:00 P.M.  The 
notice listed 11 topics, including “New Business.”  The notice then listed four specific item 
descriptions that further advised the public of the topics to be discussed under “New Business,” 
one of which was “Discussion to set up a meeting between the Director and two members of the 
board to review performance.”  
 
 
The November 6, 2024, meeting was held as planned.  During the meeting, Board Chair 
John Scott Smith stated that he wanted to “open up a discussion to set up a meeting between the 
Director and two members of the Board to review performance.”  Chair Smith stated that there 
were certain performance issues that needed to be discussed with the Library Director and out of 
respect for her privacy, he suggested that such discussions occur privately.  He explained that if 
only two Board members were involved in such discussions, then those discussions could occur 
outside of a properly posted open meeting.  Chair Smith asked if his idea was “clear” and 
members indicated that it was.  One member then asked if it would just be one meeting with the 
Library Director and Chair Smith confirmed that it would be one meeting.  Chair Smith 
volunteered to meet with the Library Director and asked if another member would be interested 
in participating.  Board member Nutan Mathew volunteered and then Board member Susan 
Alessandri stated she was also available if needed.  Chair Smith concluded the discussion by 
suggesting that he and Ms. Mathew set something up “offline.” 
 
The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on January 7, 2025, at 7:00 P.M.  The 
notice listed 10 topics, including “Old Business.”  The notice then listed five specific item 
descriptions that further advised the public of the topics to be discussed under “Old Business,” 
one of which was “Scheduling meeting to discuss performance.” 
 
The January 7, 2025, meeting was held as planned.  During the meeting, the Board 
mentioned that it had previously discussed scheduling a meeting with the Library Director to 
 
2 A video recording of the Board meeting held on November 6, 2024, meeting is available at 
https://new.medwaycable.com/internetchannel/show/3798?site=3; a video recording of the Board meeting held on 
December 3, 2024, is available at https://new.medwaycable.com/internetchannel/show/3811?site=3; a  video 
recording of the Board meeting held on January 7, 2025, meeting is available at 
https://new.medwaycable.com/internetchannel/show/3833?site=3; a video recording of the Board meeting held on 
February 11, 2025, is available at https://new.medwaycable.com/internetchannel/show/3855?site=3;  a video 
recording of the Board meeting held on March 4, 2025, is available at 
https://new.medwaycable.com/internetchannel/show/3890?site=3; a video recording of the Board meeting held on 
March 19, 2025, is available at https://new.medwaycable.com/internetchannel/show/3928?site=3 ; and a video 
recording of the Board meeting held on April 1, 2025, is available at 
https://new.medwaycable.com/internetchannel/show/3897?site=3.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
discuss performance issues but that a meeting never occurred.  Vice Chair Greg Peverill-Conti 
stated that he recalled a discussion about which Board members wanted to be on “a committee” 
and the Board determined that former Chair Smith and Ms. Mathews had volunteered to meet 
with the Library Director.3  Ms. Alessandri then volunteered to take Mr. Smith’s place and Ms. 
Mathews again volunteered to meet with the Library Director.4    
 
The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on February 11, 2025, at 7:00 P.M.  The 
notice listed 10 topics, including “New Business.”  The notice then listed seven specific item 
descriptions that further advised the public of the topics to be discussed under “New Business,” 
one of which was “Operations review & action plan for 2025.”   
 
The February 11, 2025, meeting was held as planned.  During the meeting, the Board 
stated that two members, Ms. Alessandri and Ms. Mathews, would like to have a meeting with 
the Library Director to talk about basic library operations and what the Board would like to see 
happen within the library in 2025.  Ms. Alessandri, Ms. Mathews and the Library Director 
agreed to meet on February 20, 2025, at 9:30 A.M.  The February 20, 2025, meeting was held as 
planned but no notice was posted. 
 
During a March 4, 2025, meeting, Ms. Alessandri advised the Board that she and Ms. 
Mathews met with the Library Director and discussed “ideas for what we could do moving 
forward.”  Later in the meeting, the Board discussed certain of those ideas, which included the 
Director introducing two new items each month to the “Library of Things” and visiting three 
libraries each month.  
  
Later that same day, the complainant filed an Open Meeting Law complaint with the 
Board alleging that Ms. Alessandri and Ms. Mathews met with the Library Director without 
posting notice of such meeting.  During an open session meeting held on March 19, 2025, the 
Board reviewed and discussed the complaint.  The Board explained that two members met 
privately with the Library Director to discuss library operations and plans, and that these two 
members “inadvertently violated” the Open Meeting Law by meeting with the Library Director.  
The Board then discussed who would respond to the complaint and voted to authorize town legal 
counsel to respond.    
 
By letter dated March 24, 2025, Attorney Mark R. Reich, the Board’s legal counsel, 
responded to the complaint asserting that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when 
two Board members met with the Library Director because the two members were not a 
 
3 John Scott Smith resigned from the Board after the Board’s December 3, 2024, meeting.  
4 During the January 7, 2025, meeting, the Board also interviewed three candidates for a vacant seat on the Board.  
After speaking with the candidates, the Board voted by secret ballot and then the Library Director announced that 
one candidate received three votes.  Subsequently, during a joint meeting of the Board and the Medway Select 
Board held on January 21, 2025, both the Board and Select Board heard from the candidates and then discussed and 
voted to appoint the candidate recommended by the Board, which was the candidate that had received the three 
votes.  Although not raised in the complaints, we note our concern with the Board’s actions during the January 7, 
2025, meeting.  First, we note that the names of applicants for appointment or employment which are known 48 
hours in advance of a meeting should be included in a meeting notice.  See  OML 2022-217; 2019-24; OML 2016-
150; OML 2013-163.  Second, the Open Meeting Law explicitly prohibits votes taken by secret ballot.  See  G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(b) (“No vote taken at an open session shall be by secret ballot.”); see also OML 2025-85; OML 2016-
121; OML 2015-145.  We remind the Board of its obligations under the law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
subcommittee.  In formulating this response, Attorney Reich explained that he reviewed the 
notice and minutes of the Board meeting held on February 11, 2025, and spoke with one Board 
member.  On March 25, 2025, the complainant emailed Attorney Reich disagreeing that the two 
Board members were not a subcommittee and providing further evidence of the alleged violation.   
 
The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on April 1, 2025, at 7:00 P.M.
5  The 
notice listed 10 topics, including “New Business” and “Old Business.”  The notice then listed 
three specific item descriptions that further advised the public of the topics to be discussed under 
“New Business” and two specific item descriptions that further advised the public of the topics to 
be discussed under “Old Business.”  One of the additional topics listed under “New Business” 
was “Open Meeting Law Complaint, Mr. Samuel Francis (March 4, 2025) – acknowledge receipt 
of and review additional communication from complainant dated March 25, 2025; authorize 
submission of supplemental response to complaint by Town Counsel;” one of the additional 
topics listed under “Old Business” was “Review and consideration of February 20, 2025 Trustee 
discussion with Library Director re: Operations Review & Action Plan for 2025 and action items 
proposed at that meeting, including proposed performance measures – ratification, validation, 
and confirmation of such discussion and any action taken.” 
 
The April 1, 2025, meeting was held as planned.  During the meeting, the Board 
acknowledged receipt of the complainant’s March 25, 2025, email and reviewed and approved 
Attorney Reich’s supplemental response to the first Open Meeting Law complaint.  Ms. 
Alessandri and Ms. Mathew then reviewed all the topics that they discussed with the Library 
Director during the meeting held on February 20, 2025.  Specifically, they reported on the 
specific performance standards and action plans they would like the Library Director to 
implement, which included emailing the Board a monthly report by 5 P.M. on the Thursday 
before each Board meeting, providing a written description of library staff responsibilities, 
developing a master list of children and adult programs scheduled for 2025, scheduling at least 
one new adult and one new children’s program every month beginning in May 2025, visiting 
three libraries every month, increasing engagement with the library’s social media, expanding 
the “Library of Things” collection by two items each month, adequately answering questions 
about programming and budget operations, instructing staff not to discuss the Board at the 
circulation desk, and meeting with and briefing all library staff on events and issues.  
 
By letter dated April 7, 2025, Attorney Reich provided a supplemental response to the 
first Open Meeting Law complaint explaining that Ms. Alessandri and Ms. Mathew “did 
ultimately act in the manner of a subcommittee” when they met with the Library Director and the 
Board “acknowledges its inadvertent violation of the Open Meeting Law.” 
 
 
 
5 Although not raised in the complaints, we note that the notices for the seven Board meetings held between 
November 2024, and April 2025 do not include the date and time that the notices were posted.  We take this 
opportunity to remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that the date and time that the notice is posted 
must be conspicuously recorded on or with the notice itself.  See 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); see also OML 2013-44 
(noting that “Recording the date and time enables the public to observe that public bodies are complying with the  
Open Meeting Law’s notice requirements without requiring constant vigilance.  Additionally, it provides this office 
with evidence of compliance with the Open Meeting Law’s notice requirements.”) 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We Find that the Board Created a Subcommittee and that the Subcommittee 
Failed to Post Notice of a Meeting with the Library Director. 
 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  The law defines “public body” as “a multiple-
member board, commission, committee or subcommittee ... however created, elected, appointed 
or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  A 
subcommittee includes a “multiple-member body created to advise or make recommendations to 
a public body.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  Whether a public body created a subcommittee is a fact-
intensive inquiry and our analysis hinges on the public body’s actions and whether it intended to 
create a multiple-member body.  See OML 2023-165.
6 
 
The first complaint alleges that the Board created a subcommittee which then met with 
the Library Director without posting notice of that meeting.  Here, during its November 6, 2024, 
meeting, the Board sought volunteers to meet with the Library Director and discuss performance 
issues.  Two members volunteered to do so.  Then, during the January 7, 2025, meeting, the 
Board again discussed scheduling a meeting with the Library Director to review performance 
issues and one member specifically recalled the Board discussing which Board members wanted 
to be on “a committee” for such purpose.  During that January meeting, two members, Ms. 
Alessandri and Ms. Mathew, agreed to meet with the Library Director.  During the Board’s 
February 11, 2025, meeting, Ms. Alessandri and Ms. Mathews scheduled a meeting with the 
Library Director for the following week to talk about objectives and basic library operations for 
2025.  At the Board’s meeting on March 4, 2025, Ms. Alessandri reported that she and Ms. 
Mathews met with the Library Director and relayed certain of the objectives that came out of the 
meeting. 
 
We find that the Board created a subcommittee where volunteers were sought to meet 
with the Library Director, the Board then settled on two members and agreed to that 
arrangement, and those two members met with the Library Director and reported back to the 
Board on the goals and objectives reached with the Library Director.  See, e.g., OML 2025-135 
(finding that Committee created a subcommittee where the role of the subcommittee was to carry 
out the work of and make recommendations to the Committee even though Committee did not 
actually take a vote to create the subcommittee); OML 2024-93 (finding that working group that 
was to report back to full committee “to show where we are, what we're thinking, [and] get 
direction” was a subcommittee); OML 2023-177 (finding that “when the Board voted to 
‘comprise a working group,’ defined the membership of that group, and delegated the 
responsibility of reviewing and organizing ARPA requests to those specific members, the 
Board’s action created a subcommittee”); OML 2023-32 (finding that Board created 
subcommittee to revise short-term rental bylaw where Board discussed having two members 
work with Assistant Town Manager and then agreed that Chair and Vice Chair would be the two 
members even though Board did not thereafter take a formal vote or use the word 
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
“subcommittee”); OML 2018-23 (finding that a subcommittee was created where multiple 
volunteers were sought to work on a matter and after two individuals volunteered, the public 
body, by consensus, formally agreed to the arrangement).  
 
We appreciate that the Board may not have understood that it was creating a 
subcommittee and that as such the Board may not have literally intended to create a 
subcommittee.  Nonetheless, we have previously explained that a public body creates a 
subcommittee when it appoints members to carry out a task.  See OML 2023-165; 2017-111.  
Because we find that the Board created a subcommittee, we further find that it violated the Open 
Meeting Law when the two-member subcommittee met with the Library Director on February 
20, 2025, without posting notice of that meeting.  However, we find that the Board took 
sufficient remedial action to cure the violation when the Board posted notice of the April 1, 
2025, meeting, informed the public that it would review and consider the discussions with the 
Library Director that occurred on February 20, 2025, and then discussed each of the specific 
performance standards and action plans they wanted the Library Director to meet and implement.  
Violations of the Open Meeting Law may be cured by independent, deliberative action that is not 
merely a ceremonial acceptance and perfunctory ratification of action taken in violation of the 
Law.  See Pearson v. Bd. of Selectmen of Longmeadow, 49 Mass. App. Ct. 119, 125 (2000); 
OML 2020-7; OML 2016-49.  Generally, that means conducting deliberations anew at a 
subsequent meeting that is accessible to the public and for which proper notice is provided. 
 
II. We Find that the Board Did Not Deliberate Outside of a Properly Posted Meeting.  
 
The second complaint alleges that the Board must have deliberated sometime between 
March 19, 2025, when it discussed the first Open Meeting Law complaint, and March 24, 2025, 
when Attorney Reich responded to the complaint, because the response to the complaint “was 
diametrically opposed” to the position the Board “agreed upon and endorsed during” the March 
19, 2025, meeting.  The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy 
surrounding deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School 
Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as 
“a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is 
a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.   
 
Here, during the March 19, 2025, meeting, the Board met in open session and discussed 
the first Open Meeting Law complaint acknowledging that two members met privately with the 
Library Director and “inadvertently violated” the Open Meeting Law.  However, when Attorney 
Reich responded to the complaint by letter dated March 24, 2025, the Board maintained that it 
did not violate the Open Meeting because a subquorum of Board members met with the Library 
Director and those two members were not a subcommittee.  We find here that the Board did not 
further discuss the complaint or any possible response after the March 19, 2025, meeting.  
Rather, Attorney Reich spoke with one Board member and then spoke separately with the Town 
Administrator and Assistant Town Administrator.  Based on those conversations, Attorney Reich 
understood that the Board had not created a subcommittee and further, because only two Board 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
members, a subquorum, met with the Library Director, there was no meeting as defined by the 
Open Meeting Law.   
 
Individual public officials are not public bodies and therefore are not subject to the Open 
Meeting Law.  See OML 2021-3.  Here, only one Board member communicated with Attorney 
Reich, and therefore such discussions did not constitute improper deliberation as it did not 
involve a quorum of the public body.  See OML 2023-158.  Moreover, any communication 
between individual public officials who are not members of the Board or otherwise subject to the 
Open Meeting Law, such as the Town Administrator or Assistant Town Administrator, also do 
not constitute improper deliberation.  See OML 2020-53; OML 2014-80.  Absent sufficient 
evidence to the contrary, we credit the Board’s account of the facts and find that it did not have 
any private discussions outside of a noticed meeting.  See OML 2025-15; 2023-121; OML 2016-
141; see also LaPointe v. License Bd. of Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) (“There is every 
presumption in favor of the honesty and sufficiency of the motives actuating public officers in 
actions ostensibly taken for the general welfare.”).  Furthermore, we have explained on many 
occasions that mere speculation or conjecture regarding deliberation outside of a posted meeting, 
without factual support, is insufficient to support a complaint’s allegations.  See, e.g., OML 
2025-15; OML 2023-242; OML 2012-59. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
creating a subcommittee that failed to post notice of a meeting.  We order the Board’s immediate 
and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations 
could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  In addition, we order all members of 
the Board to attend an Open Meeting Law training webinar provided by our office within 90 
days of the date of this letter, and to certify to our office that they have done so.
7  
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
 
7 Information on upcoming webinars is available on the Attorney General’s website, 
https://wwwmass.gov/servicedetails/open-meeting-law-trainings. 

===PAGE 8===
8 
 
cc: Samuel Francis – By email only:   
Medway Library Board of Trustees – By email only: librarytrustees@medwayma.gov 
Medway Town Clerk Stefany Ohannesian – By email only: 
sohannesian@medwayma.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
