===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
January 19, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 2 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq. 
KP Law P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received a complaint from Karen Rosa on October 8, 2021, alleging that the 
Westford Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 1, and the Board responded by 
letter dated September 20.1 In her complaint, Ms. Rosa alleges that the Board discussed a topic at 
an August 9 meeting that was not listed on the notice for the meeting.  
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed the meeting 
notice and a video recording of the Board’s August 9 meeting.  
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On August 6, the Board posted a notice for a public meeting 
to be held on August 9. The meeting notice included the following topic: “Update of current 
COVID-19 cases in Westford and statewide recommendations.” The meeting notice was posted 
on the Town’s website, its official posting location. 
On August 9, the Board held a fully remote meeting via Zoom. Approximately half an 
hour into the meeting, the Board heard an update from the Town Health Agent regarding the 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
COVID case counts in Westford. The chair then recognized the Town Manager to speak. The 
Town Manager raised two new concerns – whether members of the public should be required to 
wear masks at public meetings in town, and whether all persons inside of town buildings should 
be required to wear masks, including town employees. The Board discussed the mask issue for 
around twenty minutes, while accepting public comment in the Zoom chat box. At the end of the 
discussion, the Board voted to require masks for any person attending in-person public meetings 
while still offering a remote access option for those who were unable or unwilling to wear a 
mask to attend in person. 
DISCUSSION 
 Except in an emergency, the Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of 
every meeting “at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). “Notice shall ... contain the date, time and place of such meeting 
and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” Id. 
The Open Meeting Law does not require the chair of a public body to guess what will occur at a 
meeting. See OML 2018-119; OML 2013-197.2 A public body may amend a notice within 48 
hours of a meeting if a previously unanticipated topic comes to the Chair’s attention. See 940 
CMR 29.03(1)(d); OML 2020-29; OML 2019-131. Although a Chair generally may be aware 
that a discussion is ongoing, the Open Meeting Law only requires the meeting notice to contain 
the topics the Chair reasonably anticipates discussing at the particular meeting for which the 
notice is posted. See OML 2018-159. When amending a meeting notice within the 48 hours prior 
to a meeting, a public body must conspicuously record the date and time that the meeting notice 
is amended, as well as the date and time the notice was initially posted, on or with the amended 
notice. See 940 CMR 29.03(l)(d).  
 Here, it is clear from the video of the August 9 meeting, that the mask issue was raised by 
the Town Manager. In addition, the Board explains that the Chair did not otherwise anticipate 
that the mask requirement would be raised at the meeting. Absent evidence to the contrary, we 
credit the Board’s explanation of the facts. See OML 2021-178; OML 2020-94. Accordingly, we 
find no violation of the Open Meeting Law, as the Board was not required to list a topic that the 
chair did not reasonably anticipate 48 hours in advance would be discussed at the meeting.  
 Finally, we note that the Attorney General strongly recommends that public bodies, as a 
matter of best practice, table unplanned topics that might be of significant interest to the public in 
order to include them in a meeting notice for a subsequent meeting. See OML 2019-70; OML 
2018-119. 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Karen Rosa (via e-mail: ) 
 Westford Board of Health c/o Health Director Rae Dick (via e-mail: 
  
 Westford Town Manager Jodi Ross (via e-mail:  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
