===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 16, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 131 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Timothy J. Barber 
Director  
Town of Dartmouth  
Department of Public Works 
759 Russells Mills Rd. 
Dartmouth, MA 02748-1106 
 
tbar
ber@town.dartmouth.ma.us  
 
 RE: Op
 en Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Barber: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on May 16, 2024, alleging that the 
Dartmouth Board of Public Works (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 29, and you responded 
on behalf of the Board by letter dated April 12.
1  The complaint alleges that the Board, and 
specifically the chairperson, violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to announce that the 
Board’s March 28 meeting was being recorded. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the notice of the 
March 28 meeting.  We also viewed a recording of the March 28 meeting available online.
2   
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  The Board’s March 28 meeting was held entirely remotely 
via Zoom and was broadcast via Dartmouth Community Television.  The Zoom platform 
verbally announced to each attendee when they joined the remote meeting that it was being 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The recording of the March 28 meeting can be accessed at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ubODFCKGEyc  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
recorded.  Additionally, a dialog box appeared on the screen of each person who signed on, 
which stated: “This meeting is being recorded.  The account owner can watch this recording if 
it’s stored in the cloud.  Participants granted permission can record and share their recording with 
apps and others. . . . By signing in this meeting, you consent to being recorded.”  To enter the 
meeting, attendees were required to click “Got it” on that dialog box.  In the alternative, they 
could select “Leave meeting.”
3  The Board maintains that these notifications satisfy the Open 
Meeting Law.  Nonetheless, it has pledged that going forward the Board chair will also announce 
that the meeting is being recorded.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, subject to certain reasonable requirements set out in 
the Law, any person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a 
public body, or may transmit the meeting through any medium.  At the beginning of the meeting, 
the chair shall inform other attendees of any recordings.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f).  The 
requirement that the chair inform attendees of any recording includes any recording made by 
members of the public body itself, including those made for public broadcasting or 
administrative purposes, such as assisting in the drafting of meeting minutes.  See OML 2023-
154; OML 2020-159; OML 2013-136. 4 
 
We have previously stated that a prominent sign may satisfy the requirement that the 
chair notify attendees of a recording and relieves the chair from making a verbal announcement 
at the start of the meeting.  See OML 2016-155 (prominently displayed sign that reads “This 
meeting is being recorded” satisfied notification requirement); OML 2022-198 (noting that 
where public body regularly records or broadcasts its own meetings, notification requirement is 
satisfied by prominently displayed sign that informs attendees about recording); OML 2013-136 
(same).  Cf. OML 2019-129 (finding that wall sign did not satisfy notification requirement). 
 
Here, the Zoom platform audibly announced the recording to each attendee as they signed 
on to the meeting.  Moreover, the dialog box displayed by the Zoom platform, if anything, was 
more effective than a sign on the public body’s table because it prompted acknowledgment of the 
recording.  Because the Zoom platform’s verbal announcement and dialog box informed 
attendees of the recording, we find that the Board satisfied the Open Meeting Law’s requirement 
that the chair inform those in attendance that the meeting was being recorded. 
 
We remind the complainant that the Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to 
rec
ord their meetings or to post recordings of their meetings online, nor does it require—if a 
meeting is recorded—that the recording capture every aspect of the meeting.  See, e.g., OML 
2020-96.  The complainant has filed multiple Open Meeting Law complaints alleging a failure to 
conduct certain steps or make certain announcements, based on a viewing of a recording, when 
 
3 The recording does not capture the platform’s verbal announcement that the meeting is being recorded.  However, 
absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body's account of the facts. See OML 2023-121; OML 
2017-93; OML 2016-141; see also LaPointe v. License Board of Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) (“There is every 
presumption in favor of the honesty and sufficiency of the motives actuating public officers in actions ostensibly 
taken for the general welfare.”). 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
attendance at the meeting in real time would have confirmed the requirements were satisfied 
during the meeting.  Such complaints needlessly consume the limited resources of the public 
body as well as this office. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged by the complainant.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this 
determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may 
be pending with the Board or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-
2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  Patrick Higgins ( via email: ) 
Dartmouth Town Clerk (via email: clerk@town.dartmouth.ma.us) 
Dartmouth Town Administrator (via email: smacinnes@town.dartmouth.ma.us) 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
