===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 22, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 77 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Janelle M. Austin, Esq. 
KP Law 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Attorney Austin: 
 
This office received a complaint from Carol Jammalo on October 26, 2020,1 alleging that 
the Clarksburg Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.2 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about August 24, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated September 3. The complaint alleges that the 
 
1 All dates in this determination are in 2020, unless otherwise stated.  
2 The complaint also alleges that the Town Administrator violated the Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting Law 
applies only to public bodies and individuals acting as public body members. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The law 
defines “public body” as “a multiple-member board, commission, committee or subcommittee . . . however created, 
elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Town 
Administrator is neither a member of the Board nor a public body; instead, the Town Administrator is an individual 
employee of the Town of Clarksburg. As such, the Town Administrator is not subject to the Open Meeting Law, and 
we therefore decline to review any allegation that the Town Administrator violated the Open Meeting Law. See 
OML Declination 12-18-15 (Lawrence City Clerk); OML Declination 11-2-15 (Massachusetts Division of Marine 
Fisheries); OML Declination 5-16-19 (Bourne Town Clerk). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Board deliberated outside of a properly noticed meeting to add two articles to the warrant for the 
Special Town Meeting to be held on August 26.3,4        
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s 
response, the request for further review, and the Board’s response to a request from our office for 
additional information. We also communicated with the Complainant by email and phone, with 
Counsel5 by email and phone, and with the Clarksburg Town Administrator by phone. 
 
At the time of the meetings at issue in this complaint, the Complainant was the 
Clarksburg Town Clerk. On July 8, the Board convened a meeting during which it discussed 
scheduling a Special Town Meeting. During this discussion the Town’s Principal Assessor 
provided the Board with information regarding two properties the Town was considering 
entering into Payment in Lieu of Tax (PILOT) agreements with and explained that in order for 
the Board to enter into the PILOT agreements, the Board would first have to receive 
authorization via a Town Meeting vote. The Board then voted to schedule a Special Town 
Meeting for August 26 at 6:00 p.m. Additionally, the Board discussed that the Town 
Administrator would notify various Town officials of the Special Town Meeting and that a 
warrant would be drafted for review and finalization at the Board’s next meeting. The Board’s 
next meeting was held on July 28. During this meeting, under the notice topic “Special Town 
Meeting – Discuss and Finalize Warrant,” the Chair read the draft warrant, which included the 
two articles related to the PILOT agreements, an article related to amending the “pay scale and 
step” section of the Town’s personnel policy, and an article related to changing the Town Clerk 
from an elected to an appointed position. At the July 28 meeting, the Board voted to finalize the 
warrant.  
 
A public body may only deliberate during a meeting for which proper notice has been 
posted. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(a)&(b). The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation,” with some 
exceptions not relevant here, as any “oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business 
within its jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a 
public body. Id. The complaint alleges that “[t]here is no transparency on how or why Pay 
 
3 Although the Board interpreted the complaint as alleging that the topic “Special Town Meeting – Discuss and 
Finalize Warrant” on the notice for its July 28 meeting was insufficiently detailed, we find that the complaint clearly 
alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting regarding the addition of two articles to the 
Special Town Meeting warrant. Therefore, we make no formal finding regarding the sufficiency of the notice for the 
July 28 meeting, and instead review the allegation that the Board deliberated outside of a properly noticed meeting. 
Nonetheless, we advise the Board that when a public body anticipates discussing specific Town Meeting warrant 
articles at a meeting, it must specify those articles in the meeting notice; however, where a public body anticipates 
reviewing all articles for a Town Meeting warrant or discussing the warrant generally, it is not necessary to list all of 
the individual warrant articles. See OML 2013-8; OML 2017-185. 
4 The complainant also alleges that the Town has failed to follow a Town Meeting Article passed in 2007 related to 
pay grade and step policies for town employees. Even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Division of Open Government enforces and interprets the Open 
Meeting Law, and we therefore decline to review this allegation. See OML 2021-32; OML Declination 1-25-16 
(Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners).  
5 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Grades and changing the Town Clerk to an appointed position came to be on the Special Town 
Meeting warrant posted for August 26, 2020.” In support of the assertion that the Board 
deliberated outside of a properly noticed meeting to add the two warrant articles, the 
Complainant explains that “[t]hese items were never listed for discussion on any recent Select 
Board agenda,” and cites to an email sent on July 9 by the Town Administrator regarding the 
Special Town Meeting in which only the two warrant articles related to the PILOT agreements 
were mentioned.  
 
The Town Administrator has responsibility for drafting Town Meeting warrant articles, 
which are then presented to the Board for its consideration. With respect to the two warrant 
articles at issue here, the Town Administrator explained that she drafted the articles and included 
them in the warrant that was then presented to the Board at its July 28 meeting. The Town 
Administrator explained further that the Town had been considering making changes to its pay 
grade and step policy and also had been considering changing the Town Clerk from an elected to 
an appointed position for some time. For example, early in her tenure as Town Administrator, 
including during her employment interview in 2019, the idea of changing the Town Clerk from 
an elected to an appointed position and the issue of the Town’s pay grade and step policy were 
brought to the Town Administrator’s attention. In response, the Town Administrator began 
consulting with Town Counsel regarding what steps were necessary to pursue these two changes.  
 
The Town Administrator additionally explained that she had considered drafting articles 
addressing the Town’s pay grade and step policy and the Clerk’s position for the 2020 Annual 
Town Meeting, which was postponed and modified due to the COVID-19 pandemic. After the 
Board scheduled the Special Town Meeting for August 26, the Town Administrator decided to 
draft the two articles at issue here. The Town Administrator recalls speaking with one member of 
the Board, most likely the chair, regarding the two articles when finalizing the notice for the July 
28 meeting, but she did not speak with any other Board members regarding the two articles. We 
credit the Town Administrator’s representations regarding how the two articles came to be 
included in the draft warrant the Board discussed at its July 28 meeting. See OML 2020-53; 
OML 2019-73; see also LaPointe v. License Board of Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) (“There 
is every presumption in favor of the honesty and sufficiency of the motives actuating public 
officers in actions ostensibly taken for the general welfare.”).6 We find no evidence that a 
quorum of the Board discussed the two articles outside of a properly posted meeting, and we find 
that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.7  
   
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
7 To the extent the Complainant alleges that the Board was required to discuss how the two articles at issue here  
came to be included in the warrant, or to hold a detailed discussion of the two articles, we note that the Open 
Meeting Law does not require a public body to discuss any topic, nor does it establish requirements for the level of 
detail a public body’s discussions must include. See OML 2014-86; OML 2019-13. The Law simply requires that 
such a discussion between or among a quorum of the Board take place during a properly noticed meeting. See G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(a)&(b). 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Ron Boucher, Chair of the Clarksburg Select Board c/o Rebecca Stone, Town 
Administrator (via email:   
Carol Jammalo (via e-mail:  
  
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
