===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 18,2017 
OML 2017-14 
Kevin Ascolillo 
Secretary, Essex County Conservation District 
 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Ascolillo: 
This office received a complaint from Michelle Bailey on July 28, alleging that the 
Essex County Conservation District (the "Conservation District") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally mailed to the Conservation 
District on or about June 23, although the Conservation District did not receive it until our 
office reached out to you. You then responded, on behalf of the Conservation District, by 
letter dated November 4.2 In her complaint, Ms. Bailey alleges that the Conservation District 
did not properly post notice of its May 24 and June 21 meetings. Additionally, Ms. Bailey 
alleges that the topics listed on those notices were generic and lacked sufficient detail. 
Following our review, we find that the Conservation District violated the Open 
Meeting Law in the ways alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the Conservation District's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with 
our office requesting further review. We also reached out to the clerk of every city and town 
in Essex County to review the Conservation District's May 24 and June 21 meeting notices 
that were filed with them. 
We find the facts as follows. The Conservation District is a public body, and one of 
the 14 Conservation Districts in Massachusetts created to identify and address natural 
resource concerns in the local community, and coordinate public and private resources to 
meet local needs. The Conservation District covers every city and town in Essex County. It 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 Our office granted you an extension to respond until November 9. 
FACTS 
O 

===PAGE 2===
files its meeting notices by mailing a copy of the notice to the clerk in every city and town in 
the county at least five calendar days before each meeting. The notice for the Conservation 
District's May 21 meeting was received by most of the clerks within 48 hours of the meeting. 
Groveland was the only town to have received, and thus posted, this notice at least 48 hours 
before the meeting. Boxford, Danvers, Haverhill, Marblehead, Middleton, Newbury, 
Newburyport and Peabody never received the notice. 
The notice for the Conservation District's June 21 meeting was received by most of 
the clerks within 48 hours of the meeting. Groveland and Salisbury were the only towns to 
have received, and thus posted, this notice at least 48 hours before the meeting. Danvers, 
Haverhill, Marblehead, Newburyport and Peabody never received the notice. 
Both notices listed the same topics as follows: 
1. Call to Order 
2. Notice of Meeting 
3. Approval of Minutes: Regular Meeting 
4. ECCD Report 
5. NRCD Report 
6. New Business 
7. Old Business 
8. Executive Session 
9. Adjournment 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Taw was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body must post notice of every meeting at 
least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.T. c. 3OA, 
§ 20(b). For regional or district public bodies, "notice shall be filed and posted in each city or 
town within the region or district in the manner prescribed for local public bodies," or 
alternatively, they may post notices to the public body's website. Id. at § 20(c); 940 CMR 
29.03(4). Notices must include "a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." Id. The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We 
generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could 
read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See 
OMT 2015-35.3 
The complaint alleges that the Conservation District's May 24 and June 21 meeting 
notices were not properly posted. We agree and find that the notices were not properly posted 
in accordance with the notice posting requirements for district public bodies under the law. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Although the name of the Conservation District encompasses the entire county, it is not a 
county public body because it is not part of county form of government, but rather reaches the 
cities and towns within the county and is therefore a district or regional public body. See 
OML 2014-96. As a district or regional public body, it must post notice in each city or town 
within the district in the manner prescribed for each city or town, or, in the alternative, it may 
post to a website. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c); 940 CMR 29.03(4), Here, the Conservation 
District mailed its meeting notices to the cities and towns within the district prior to its two 
meetings, but the notices did not arrive in most of the clerk's offices until a day and, in some 
cases hours, before the meetings were held. Because the notices were not posted in each city 
and town within the district at least 48 hours before the meetings, we find that the 
Conservation District violated the Open Meeting Law. We commend the Conservation 
District's pledge to mail its notices to the clerks earlier to ensure timely posting of its notices. 
However, we note that, rather than the arduous logistical burden of ensuring notice posting 
compliance in each city and town in Essex County, the Conservation District could adopt a 
website as an alternative notice posting method. See 940 CMR 29.03(4). We encourage the 
Conservation District to consider this alternate posting method. 
The complaint also alleges that the topics listed on both notices lacked sufficient 
detail. Here, the notices listed the same topics, including topics such as "New Business" and 
"Old Business." We advise public bodies that boilerplate topics such as these are vague and 
do not offer the public an understanding of the anticipated topics to be discussed at that 
particular meeting. See OML 2014-140; OML 2013-14. Best practice is therefore to use 
"Old Business" as a heading below which more specific topics are listed. Additionally, we 
advise public bodies to avoid using abbreviations or acronyms on notices, particularly where 
the acronym used is not widely understood by members of the public. See OML 2015-154. 
Finally, executive session topics should provide the public with sufficient understanding of 
the specific purpose of the closed door discussion, including all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Way land, 455 
Mass. 561, 567 ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is 
necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public 
that the school committee would conduct business in private, and the only way the public 
would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper."). For these reasons, we find 
that the Conservation District's May 24 and June 21 meeting notices lacked sufficient detail 
in violation of the Open Meeting Law. We again commend the Conservation District for 
pledging to provide more detail in its meeting notices going forward. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Conservation District violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to timely post notice of its May 24 and June 21 meetings and by 
failing to include sufficient detail on those notices. We order the Conservation District's 
immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar 
future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Conservation District. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Marine Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Michelle Bailey 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 