===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
wmv.mass.gov/ago 
August 18, 2014 
OML 2014-101 
David A. Wojcik, Esq. 
Christopher. Hays, Wojcik, & Mavricos, LLP 
446 Main St. 
Worcester, MA 01608 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Wojcik; 
This office received a complaint from Anne and Robert Krasnecky (the complainants) 
dated June 20, alleging that the Ware Board of Health (the Board) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint alleges that the Board's mimites for its meeting on 
February 6 fail to accurately record the language of a motion made by a Board member. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 28, and you responded by letter dated 
May 29, following an extension of time granted by this office.2 
Following our review, we find that the minutes at issue are sufficiently accurate, thus the 
Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the 
complaint filed with the Board; the Board's response; and the request for further review filed 
with our office. Additionally, we reviewed the draft and final approved minutes of the Board's 
February 6 meeting; the draft minutes of the Board's April 9 meeting; the handwritten notes of 
Betty Barlow, the Board's administrative assistant, used to create the February 6 minutes; and 
the complainants' handwritten notes chronicling the February 6 and April 9 meetings. 
Furthermore, we reviewed emails between the complainants and Judy Metcalf, the Director of 
Public Health, dated February 6 and February 24, as well as emails between the complainants 
and Ms. Barlow. Finally, in July 2014 we spoke by telephone with Board member Nichole 
Bradway, with Ms. Metcalf, and with counsel for the Board. 
' Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
2 For the purpose of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The complainants have long-standing concerns about their 
neighbors' alleged burning activities. The minutes of the Board's February 6 meeting state that, 
during the meeting. Board member Nichole Bradway "motioned the Board of Health have no 
further involvement with these complaints unless we have proof Skaza is burning something 
other than wood and if so found we would issue citation with fine." The complainants contend 
that this description of the motion is inaccurate, and that the actual motion made included a 
statement that "[the complainants are] no longer allowed to call unless it is an emergency." In 
support of this allegation, they offer their handwritten transcript of the meeting. The handwritten 
notes taken by the Board's administrative assistant, which were used to create the minutes, 
include no such statement. No audio or video recording exists that would resolve this dispute. 
At the Board's April 9 meeting, the complainants confronted the Board to confirm their 
understanding of the phrasing of the motion. Board member Bradway confirmed the Board's 
intent without commenting on the specific phrasing and the Health Agent Judy Metcalf further 
explained that the motion referred to the Board's future responses to similar complaints 
regarding this specific situation and not whether the health department will entertain any future 
calls. No audio or video recording exists of the April 9 meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to "create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Our office will generally only review minutes for 
substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2012-106; OML 2011-55. By 
substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so 
that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred. OML 2013-90. 
Here, we are satisfied that the minutes accurately reflect the motion made by Board 
member Bradway. The term "emergency" appears only in the complainants' handwritten notes 
of the discussion of the motion at the February Board meeting. In both sets of handwritten notes, 
however, the conversations following the contested motion do include a clarification of the 
Board's position regarding future complaints involving burning or the smell of smoke from a 
wood fire. Lacking any other basis upon which to doubt the accuracy of the specific phrasing of 
the motion at issue as made, we credit the handwritten notes of the Board made in the usual 
course of the Board's business. Accordingly, we find that the minutes of the Board's meeting of 
February 6 accurately set forth the decisions made and the actions taken. We find no violation of 
the Law. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. We now 
consider this matter closed. This determination does not address any other complaints that may 
be pending before this office or the Board. Please feel free to contact this office at (617) 963-
2540 if you have any questions. 
Mark M. Higgins 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ware Board of Health 
Anne and Robert Krasnecky 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3 