===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 18, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 126 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Jennifer F. King, Esq. 
Valerio, Dominello & Hillman, LLC 
Jennifer.King@VDHBoston.com 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney King: 
 
This letter resolves four complaints alleging that the North Middlesex Regional School 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  Separate complaints were 
filed with the Committee by Craig Hansen on February 6,
1 Melissa Boylan on February 7, 
Angela Lyden on February 7, and Shelly Jones on February 7. You responded to the four 
complaints, on behalf of the Committee, by separate but similar letters dated February 27.  Each 
complaint alleges that the Committee posted insufficient notice for its February 6 meeting, as the 
notice did not notify members of the public of a vote to close Ashby Elementary School.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
in the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Committee’s response, the request for further review, the notices and minutes for 
the Committee’s December 3, 2024, January 16, February 6, and February 26 meetings,
2 and 
video recordings of the Committee’s December 3, 2024, January 16, and February 6 meetings.3 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows.  The Committee serves the towns of Ashby, Pepperell, 
and Townsend, and at relevant times operated three elementary schools: Ashby Elementary 
School, Varnum Brook Elementary School in Pepperell, and Spaulding Memorial School in 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 Meeting notices and minutes can be found at https://www.nmrsd.org/school -committee/meetings. 
3 Meeting videos can be found at https://www.youtube.com/@NMRSDPatriots/videos . 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Townsend.  The Committee held meetings on December 3, 2024, January 16, February 6, and 
February 26.  The focus of these meetings was to discuss the Committee’s budget for the 2025-
2026 fiscal year, with a particular focus on the need to reduce costs in order to present a balanced 
budget.  The meetings also included discussion of the possibility of a tax override, the likelihood 
of success of an override, and the need to prepare a budget that reduced costs in the event an 
override is not pursued or approved.  
 
At the Committee’s December 3, 2024, meeting, following hours of public comment and 
Committee discussion about the budget and various options for reducing costs, the Committee 
voted to close Spaulding Memorial School and Ashby Elementary School.  The Committee 
rescinded the vote at its January 16 meeting to allow for further deliberation.  
 
On February 4, the Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on February 6 at 
6:00 P.M.  The meeting notice included the topic heading “Open Public Hearing for the FY 
2025-2026 Proposed Budget.”  Under that topic heading, the notice stated, “There will be a 
Public Hearing on North Middlesex Regional District School Committee FY 2025-2026 
Proposed Budget.  The Superintendent will present an overview of the proposed Fiscal Year 
2025-2026 budget for the North Middlesex Regional School District.  The public has the 
opportunity to address the School Committee relative to the proposed Fiscal Year 2025-2026 
Budget.”  The notice further specified that there would be “Committee Discussion,” “Public 
Discussion,” and “Other Questions/Discussion” regarding the budget.  The meeting notice linked 
to the School District’s budget webpage, where detailed budget information and reports were 
posted, along with the Superintendent’s preliminary budget message prepared in anticipation of 
the February 6 meeting.  The proposed budget as posted online as well as the Superintendent’s 
message accounted for closing Spaulding Memorial School but not Ashby Elementary School. 
 
The notice for the Committee’s February 6 meeting also included the heading 
“Subcommittee Reports – Votes May Be Taken,” and beneath that listed eight of the 
Committee’s standing subcommittees, one of which was the Ashby Elementary Building 
subcommittee.  Some of the subcommittees listed on the notice included additional detail 
beneath them regarding the specific topics to be discussed; for example, the Policy subcommittee 
listed four specific school policies for discussion.  No additional detail was provided regarding 
the Ashby Elementary Building subcommittee.  The Finance subcommittee item listed “FY26 
Budget” as a subtopic.  
 
The Committee convened the February 6 meeting as scheduled.  During the February 6 
meeting, Superintendent Morgan delivered a comprehensive presentation on the proposed 
budget.  The Superintendent’s proposed budget accounted for the closure of Spaulding Memorial 
School but not Ashby Elementary School.  During the “Public Hearing” portion of the meeting, 
the Committee received comments from members of the public for almost two hours; the public 
comment largely focused on concerns about closing Spaulding Memorial School.  
 
After the public hearing portion of the meeting, the Committee discussed the “FY26 
budget” subtopic during the “Finance” Subcommittee Report.  During the discussion, the 
Committee discussed various factors that could contribute to reducing the budget, including 
closing or re-purposing additional schools, the projected enrollment in each school and their 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
classroom capacities, staffing reductions, alternative bus routes to reduce transportation costs, 
bringing special education programs into the district, and insurance opt-outs.  The Committee 
discussed, if it were to close one or more schools as a cost-saving measure, reasons to close 
schools that operate in leased buildings rather than district-owned buildings.  The Committee 
also discussed the possibility of an override, its likelihood of success, and the need to adopt a 
budget that assumed no override.  Approximately four hours and twenty minutes into the 
meeting, one Committee member moved to reinstate the Committee’s December 3 decision to 
close both Spaulding Memorial School and Ashby Elementary School.  After further discussion 
on how the size, distance, projected student enrollment, and renovation costs of each school fit 
into the proposed budget, the same Committee member rescinded the motion and moved instead 
to close Ashby Elementary School and not Spaulding Memorial School.  A motion to table this 
vote did not pass; a vote was held; and the motion to close Ashby Elementary School passed 
with a 5-4 vote.   
 
At the Committee’s February 26 meeting, the Committee discussed and voted to adopt a 
budget for the 2025-2026 fiscal year.  The meeting included a public comment section prior to 
the vote to adopt the budget, during which members of the public expressed their concerns about 
closing Ashby Elementary School.  During the Committee’s discussion on the proposed budget, 
one Committee member moved to rescind the vote to close Ashby Elementary School.  The vote 
did not move forward.  The Committee ultimately voted on February 26 to adopt the proposed 
budget, which accounted for the closure of Ashby Elementary School. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours i
n advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A § 20(b).  
The notice must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, 
time and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed.  Id.  The list of topics shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  The Open Meeting 
Law does not require a public body to anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of a 
discussion.  See G.L. c. 30A § 20(b); see also OML 2022-98; OML 2020-132; OML 2019-134.
4  
A notice need not include every detail about an anticipated discussion, but the law requires that 
notice topics include “sufficient specificity” so that the public can decide whether to attend the 
meeting and observe the discussions regarding the specific topics anticipated for discussion.  See 
OML 2023-108; OML 2018-22; OML 2018-7.   
 
When reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its 
fac
e, we do not review a meeting notice standing alone.  See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155.  
Rather, we review what was actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was 
sufficiently specific to make the public aware of the discussion topics.  See OML 2021-22; OML 
2020-137; OML 2019-64.  We have explained that when a public body anticipates reviewing an 
entire budget or an entire town meeting warrant, for example, it is not required to list all the 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
budgetary items or all the warrant articles on its meeting notice.  See OML 2024-110; OML 
2017-185; OML 2012-83.  However, when a public body anticipates discussing particular 
budgetary items or articles, it must specifically list them on its meeting notice.  See OML 2024-
27; OML 2013-8; OML 2011-7.  
 
The c
omplaints allege that the notice for the Committee’s February 6 meeting was 
insufficient as it did not specify there would be a vote to close Ashby Elementary School.  We 
find that the notice was not insufficiently specific as to the vote to close the Ashby Elementary 
School and the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  We acknowledge that the 
closure of an elementary school within the district—especially in a rural area—may have a 
profound impact on students and families and may be a topic of great interest to the community.  
Nonetheless, we have considered the sufficiency of the notice in the context of both the 
anticipated and the actual discussion in concluding that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. 
 
The Committee’s discussion at its February 6 meeting did not focus on closing Ashby 
Elementary School; instead, the Committee discussed at length many different possibilities and 
the potential cost savings of each.  In fact, both the information provided to the public in advance 
of the meeting
5 as well as the Superintendent’s presentation during the meeting and the 
Committee’s initial discussion indicated that—although all possibilities were on the table—
closing Ashby Elementary School was not the anticipated approach to reducing the budget.  The 
proposed budget accounted for keeping open Ashby Elementary School (and closing Spaulding 
Memorial School).  Many options for balancing the budget were weighed and considered, 
including staff adjustments, transportation costs, special education programs, insurance opt-outs, 
and a potential override.  Since the public comment period at the Committee’s December 3, 
2024, January 16, and February 6 meetings largely focused on school closure, and the proposed 
budget accounted for closing Spaulding Memorial School, the Committee surely anticipated that 
closing a school building would be a part of the discussion.  Nonetheless, a meeting notice need 
not include every detail about the topic to be discussed, and where the Committee anticipated a 
broad and wide-ranging discussion of the budget, and the possible closure of Ashby Elementary 
School was only one part of a much broader evaluation of the Committee’s budget, we are 
satisfied that the “2025-2026 Proposed Budget” topic on the meeting notice was sufficiently 
specific. 
 
Finally, we address the complainants’ related concerns that the notice for the February 6 
meeting did not specify that a vote would be taken.  We have consistently explained that it is 
reasonably foreseeable that a public body may take action and hold a vote following discussion 
of a topic listed on a meeting notice; the Open Meeting Law does not require that the notice 
 
5 We emphasize that meeting notices must include on the notice itself the level of detail that the Open Meeting Law 
requires, without requiring that users navigate to separate pages or documents.   See OML 2022-199 (“the meeting 
notice itself must contain all information that the Open Meeting Law requires; posting attachments does not cure an 
otherwise defective notice”); OML 2020-31 (finding meeting notice insufficient when required information was 
included within a meeting packet but not on the meeting notice itself); OML 2019- 22.  We reference the information 
that was linked from the meeting notice and available online only as indication of the anticipated discussion. 
===PAGE 5===
separately indicate the possibility of a vote. See, e.g.. OML 2024-192 (notice topic "Discuss
Director of Operations Role" was sufficiently specific where public body voted to rescind prior
vote creating the position, thereby eliminating the position); OML 2023-186; OML 2021-153;
OML 2019-157; OML 2019-36; OML 2015-66; OML 2012-75. In some cases, any vote, let
alone the specific vote to be taken, is not known or reasonably anticipated prior to the meeting
discussion. See, e.g., OMIL 2023-145 (course of discussion illustrated that the specific approach
to take on mask policy was not reasonably anticipated in advance of meeting). The Committee's
vote to close Ashby Elementary School arose from a robust discussion on the 2025-2026 fiscal
year budget as a whole, and it was reasonably foreseeable that a vote may be taken on budgetary
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the
Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 it you
have any questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Carie Benedon
Carrie Benedon
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
Assisted by: Rishab Ramamurthy, Legal Intern
CC:
Lisa Martin, Chair, North Middlesex Regional School Committee
(via email: Imartin@nmrsd.org)
Angela Lyden
Craig Hansen
Melissa Boylan
Shelly Jones
5
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 