===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 8, 2022 
 
OML 2022 – 76 
    
BY EMAIL 
 
Danielle Fillio 
Town Administrator 
Town of Richmond 
1529 State Road 
Richmond, MA 01254 
 
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Fillio: 
 
This office received a complaint from Craig Swinson on October 1, 2021, alleging that 
the Richmond Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 10, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated September 30.1  The complaint alleges that the 
Board mailed a notice to residents of a hearing to be held on September 9 regarding the 
relocation of a utility pole, but that the hearing notice did not include an address of the utility 
pole in question, nor a map showing the location of the pole.  The complaint asserts that merely 
identifying the pole number on a street several miles long was insufficient to notify the public of 
the location of the pole in question. 
 
After reviewing this matter, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law, 
although in a slightly different manner than alleged in the complaint.  As explained below, we do 
not review the sufficiency of the public hearing notice that Mr. Swinson received by mail; rather, 
we review the sufficiency of the meeting notice that was posted to the Town’s official bulletin 
board.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Board, the 
Board’s response, and the complaint filed with our office for review.  We also reviewed the 
public hearing notice that Mr. Swinson received by mail regarding the relocation of the utility 
pole, the notice of the Board’s September 9 meeting which was posted on the Town’s bulletin 
board and on file in the Clerk’s office, and the minutes of the Board’s September 9 meeting as 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 20 21. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
well as its July and August meetings.2  Finally, we corresponded by phone and email with the 
Town Administrator.   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, and include the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a “a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b).  The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be 
sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand 
the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35.3   
 
For meetings of a local public body, notice shall be filed with the municipal clerk and 
posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on the municipal 
building in which the clerk’s office is located, unless the municipality has adopted its website as 
its official method of posting meeting notices.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c).  The Town of Richmond has 
not adopted its website as its official method of posting notice; therefore, notice of all meetings 
of public bodies within the Town must be posted to a physical location on or near the municipal 
building.  Nothing prohibits a public body from posting or sending other forms of notice, but for 
purposes of evaluating compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we review the notice that was 
posted using the Town’s official notice posting method.  See OML 2020-140. 
 
A public hearing may be held during a meeting of a public body, and if so, the public 
body must post notice of its meeting and include the hearing as a topic that will be discussed 
during the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  However, the Open Meeting Law does not govern 
the requirements for conducting a public hearing or for providing notice of a public hearing to 
abutters. Thus, we decline to review, and offer no opinion on, whether any actions taken by the 
Board could be a violation of any other law or regulation pertaining to the required notice for the 
particular type of hearing that took place during the Board’s September 9 meeting.4  See OML 
2014-31; OML Declination 1-25-18 (Rowley Planning Commission); OML Declination 1-29-15 
(Holbrook Planning Commission).  However, we review whether the notice that was posted on 
the bulletin board outside the municipal building was sufficiently specific to reasonably advise 
the public of the anticipated discussion. 
 
Here, the Board timely posted notice of its September 9 meeting and included, as a topic 
on the notice, “Dublin Road Pole Re-Location Hearing.”  The Board had discussed the Dublin 
Road bridge replacement project at multiple prior public meetings.  At the Board’s August 25 
meeting, the Town Administrator had reported that site work relating to the bridge replacement 
 
2 The minutes of the Board’s September 9 meeting as well as the minutes of prior meetings we reviewed are quite 
detailed.  We commend the Board and its staff on the quality of the summaries of the Board’s discussions. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
4 Numerous laws in the Commonwealth require that a public hearing be held before the government takes certain 
action.  See, e.g., G.L. c. 30A, § 2 (state agencies must hold a hearing prior to the adoption, amendment, or repeal of 
regulations); G.L. c. 114, § 38 (a Commission of health shall hold a hearing before a tomb, burial ground or 
cemetery is closed); G.L. c. 121A, § 6 (a local planning Commission shall hold a hearing on a proposed 
redevelopment project); G.L. c. 40A, § 15 (a local Commission of appeal shall hold a hearing on any zoning appeal, 
application or petition).   
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
was held up because the utility company would not advise when it would relocate a utility pole 
that needed to be moved for the project to proceed.  During the Board’s September 9 meeting, a 
representative of Eversource Energy explained the nature of the work to be performed, including 
that one utility pole would be removed and relocated 20 feet away from the bridge during work 
on a culvert and then replaced in its original location at the end of the project.  The Board voted 
unanimously to approve the pole relocation.   
 
Although the topic as listed on the notice for the September 9 meeting may have been 
accurate and meaningful to the Board and members of the public who regularly follow the 
Board's business and were already aware of the Dublin Road project, we note, as the 
Complainant asserts, that Dublin Road is several miles long with numerous utility poles.  
Therefore, although we find no indication of any intention to withhold information from the 
public, we find that the topic as listed on the meeting notice, standing alone and without the 
context of prior discussions, was insufficiently specific to reasonably advise the public of the 
matter to be discussed, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2022-4; OML 2020-
164; OML 2020-132.   
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.  We 
order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  As the pole 
has already been relocated and the bridge replacement project completed, we order no further 
remedial action.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
cc: Craig Swinson (via e-mail:  
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
