===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 19, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 116 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Gary P. Howayeck, Esq.  
Assistant Corporation Counsel  
ghowayeck@fallriverma.org  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Howayeck: 
 
This office received two complaints from Patrick Higgins, one on February 16, 2023 and 
one on May 17, 2023,
1 alleging that the Fall River Traffic Commission (the “Commission”), and 
specifically Commission member Thomas J. Faris, Jr., violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Commission on or about January 
21 and March 10, and you responded on behalf of the Commission by letter dated June 7. The 
first complaint alleges that the Commission met on January 18 without a quorum. The second 
complaint alleges that the Commission did not review or respond to the first complaint. 
 
We decline to review the first complaint but find that the Commission violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to timely review and respond to the first complaint. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the Commission’s response, and 
the requests for further review. 
   
The first complaint alleges that less than a quorum of members of the Commission met 
on January 18.
2 We do not review this complaint because the allegations of the complaint, even 
if true, would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting Law 
defines “meeting” as, “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” as, “an 
oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id. Finally, the 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 In its response the Commission clarifies that none of the actions taken on January 18 took effect at that time and 
instead those matters were addressed again at the Commission’s next meeting held on February 15.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Law defines “quorum” as, “a simple majority of the members of the public body, unless 
otherwise provided in a general or special law, executive order or other authorizing provision.” 
Id. A gathering of less than a quorum of members of a public body does not constitute a meeting 
subject to the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2015-125; OML 2014-93; OML 
2013-106.3    
 
 The second complaint alleges, and the Commission concedes , that the Commission did 
not review and respond to the first complaint within 14 business days, as required by the Open 
Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). In response, the Commission asserts 
that the January 18 meeting was not subject to the Open Meeting Law and therefore could not be 
the subject of an Open Meeting Law complaint. The Open Meeting Law requires a public body 
to review and respond to a properly filed Open Meeting Law complaint, however lacking in 
merit the public body may deem the complaint.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to timely respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint. We find that the 
Commission did not otherwise violate the Law. We order the Commission’s immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that a determination by our office of 
a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Open 
Meeting Law. 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Commission 
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Fall River Traffic Commission c/o 
Laura Ferreira, Director Traffic  
(via email: lferreira@fallriverma.org) 
Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
Alison Bouchard, Fall River City Clerk (via email: city_clerks@fallriverma.org) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
