===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
February 28, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 29 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Gregor Pagnini, Esq. 
Brody Hardoon Perkins & Kesten, LLP,  
   
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Pagnini: 
 
This office received a complaint from Kevin Wood on December 27, 2021,1 alleging that 
the Georgetown School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on November 11. After 
an extension of time granted by our office, the Committee responded by letter dated December 
10. The main concerns of the complaint relate to 1) whether it was improper for the Committee 
to meet in executive session on October 21 to discuss retaining the services of a law firm; and 2) 
whether the Committee provided sufficient notice to the public of this executive session 
discussion.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law with 
respect to its October 21 meeting by 1) convening in executive session for an improper purpose; 
and 2) posting an insufficiently specific meeting notice. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response, the request for further 
review, three notices for the October 21 meeting, and open and executive session minutes for the 
October 21 meeting.  
 
FACTS 
 
The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on October 21 at 6:30 p.m. The 
notice was amended twice. The final amended notice, posted on October 19 at 4:31 p.m., 
 
1 All dates are in 2021 unless otherwise stated. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
included the topics “Chapter 30A Executive Session Chapter 30A §21 a.) Contract Negotiations 
for Non Unit Personnel,” and, under the heading “New Business,” “c.) Approval of contract with 
investigator to conduct a joint investigation* (VOTE).”  
 
The Committee convened its meeting on October 21 as scheduled. During the meeting, 
the Committee met in executive session to discuss retaining the law firm Foley Hoag LLP to 
investigate allegations that racial slurs had been used during a football game between 
Georgetown High School and Roxbury Prep High School. After this discussion, the Committee 
reconvened in open session and voted to retain Foley Hoag LLP to conduct the investigation. 
The Committee then met in executive session again to discuss with the superintendent her 
potential retirement.    
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, unless a closed-door executive session is convened for one of the ten permissible 
purposes enumerated in the law. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). One such statutory purpose for 
executive session is “[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion 
personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion 
personnel.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”). Purpose 2 is limited in scope, allowing public 
bodies to discuss in executive session union and non-union employee contracts only; public 
bodies are not permitted to discuss in executive session under Purpose 2 other types of contracts 
such as vendor or services contracts. See OML 2014-149.  
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Notices must include a 
list of topics the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting, and those topics 
must be sufficiently specific to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed. G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). This is true for executive session topics as well; a meeting 
notice must identify the specific purpose or purposes that the public body intends to invoke to 
justify convening in executive session, and must provide as much detail as possible regarding the 
anticipated discussion without compromising the purpose of the executive session. See OML 
2016-95. Before entering executive session, the chair must also publicly announce the purpose 
for the executive session in the same level of detail. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(b)(3); see also 
District Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. Of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (“[a] precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting 
law because that is the only notification given to the public that the school committee would 
conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so 
was proper or improper.”); OML 2015-193; OML 2016-70.2  
 
The complaint alleges that it was improper for the Committee to meet in executive 
session to discuss retaining the law firm Foley Hoag LLP to investigate allegations that racial 
slurs were used during a football game between Georgetown High School and Roxbury Prep 
High School and that such topic was not clearly listed on the meeting notice. We agree. Purpose 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
2 is limited in scope and does not permit a public body to enter executive session to discuss 
contracts other than union and non-union employee contracts. See OML 2014-149. A discussion 
of vendor or service contracts, such as retaining a law firm, is not appropriate for executive 
session under Purpose 2 and as such the Committee’s discussion should have taken place during 
an open session.  
 
Additionally, the notice for the October 21 meeting did not include any topic, whether for 
open session or executive session, that would have reasonably advised the public that the 
Committee anticipated discussing retaining a law firm to conduct an investigation into 
allegations that racial slurs were used during a school football game. We find that the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include a sufficiently specific topic on its meeting 
notice and by convening in executive session for an improper purpose. Because the discussion at 
issue should not have occurred in executive session, we order the Committee to release to the 
public the executive session minutes as they relate to the relevant topic and any documents used 
during that portion of the executive session, such as the contract, if it has not yet done so. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f); OML 2021-70. 
 
Next, we must determine whether the Committee intentionally violated the Open Meeting 
Law, as the Complainant urges. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or 
omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting 
Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with 
deliberate ignorance of the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct 
violates the Open Meeting Law. Id. The Complainant cites to an earlier determination issued by 
our office, OML 2019-92, to support his assertion that the Committee acted intentionally to 
violate the law in the present case.  
 
Relevant to the complaint at issue here, in OML 2019-92, we found that the Committee 
improperly convened in executive session under Purpose 3, which allows a public body to 
discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation. In OML 2019-92 we found 
that the executive session deliberations were improper because there was no ongoing or clearly 
and imminently threated litigation, and because the Committee had not in fact discussed 
litigation strategy during the executive session. We do not find OML 2019-92 to support a 
finding that the Committee acted to intentionally violate the Open Meeting Law in the instant 
case. Here, the Committee improperly discussed a type of contract not appropriate for executive 
session under Purpose 2, a different issue entirely than was addressed in OML 2019-92. 
Additionally, we find no other evidence that suggests the Committee acted to intentionally 
violate the law; rather, the Committee misunderstood the requirements of the law with respect to 
what discussions are appropriate to hold in executive session under Purpose 2. Therefore, we 
decline to find that the Committee intentionally violated the Law. Nonetheless, we note the 
pattern of improper use of executive session, and we therefore order all Committee members to 
view the training video on our website related to executive session.3   
 
Finally, we briefly address two matters not raised in the complaint. First, we note that 
with respect to the second executive session topic discussed on October 21 the Committee failed 
to identify on the meeting notice the nonunion personnel with whom it would be negotiating. We 
 
3 Our training videos can be located at https://www.mass.gov/service-details/open-meeting-law-training-videos. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
remind the Committee that public bodies should identify, both in their notice and in the open 
session announcement made before entering executive session, the name of the specific 
nonunion personnel that is the subject of discussion under Purpose 2, unless disclosure would 
compromise the public body’s negotiating position. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b), 21(b)(3); 940 
CMR 29.03(1)(b). Second, we note that the minutes of the executive session are very brief and 
limited to a general description of the nature of the discussion. We take this opportunity to 
remind the Committee that meeting minutes must include a substantive summary of the 
discussion on each topic; a statement that a discussion was held is insufficient to comply with the 
Law. See OML 2020-57; OML 2018-8; OML 2012-29; OML 2019-167. Where this issue was 
not raised in a complaint and not fully investigated, we make no finding as to whether the 
minutes of the October 21 executive session were sufficiently detailed; however, we encourage 
the Committee to amend the October 21 executive session minutes if they in fact do not 
summarize the discussions held at that meeting. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
with respect to its October 21 meeting by 1) convening in executive session for an improper 
purpose; and 2) failing to include a sufficiently specific topic on the notice. We order the 
Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that 
similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Additionally, 
we order the Committee to release to the public the executive session minutes and any 
documents used during the executive session, such as the contract, if it has not yet done so. 
Finally, we order each member of the Committee to review our training video regarding 
executive session. The Committee must certify to our office within 30 days of the date of this 
letter that it has complied with this order.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Barbara Linares, Chair, Georgetown School Committee (via email: 
 
Kevin Wood (via e-mail:  

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 