===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 7, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 71  
 
 
Kimberly A. Rozak, Esq. 
Mirick O’Connell  
100 Front Street  
Worcester, MA 01608-1477 
 
By email only:  
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Rozak: 
 
This office received a complaint from Tammy Tebo on November 15, 2021, alleging that 
the Leicester School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on September 28, and 
you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated October 18.  The complaint alleges 
that the Committee failed to approve and vote on a contract for the Assistant Superintendent in 
an open session.    
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
in the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review.  In addition, we reviewed the notice and open session minutes of the Committee meeting 
held on August 25, and the notice and open and executive session minutes of the Committee 
meeting held on September 8.  In addition, we communicated with the complainant on January 
21, 2022, and March 28, 2022, and with you on March 25, 2022.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  Upon the recommendation of the Superintendent, the 
Committee may appoint an assistant superintendent, who shall report to the superintendent, and 
the Committee shall set the rate of compensation paid to such assistant superintendent.  In 
addition, the Committee shall approve or disapprove the hiring of said position, but the 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2021.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
superintendent negotiates such individual contracts.  See G.L. c. 71, § 59; Leicester School 
Committee Policy GDB. 
 
During an August 25 meeting, the Committee, in open session, approved, by majority 
vote, the appointment of Richard Lind as Assistant Superintendent of Teaching and Learning.    
 
The Board duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on September 8 at 5:30 P.M.  The 
notice listed an Executive Session to discuss three matters: i) to conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with Assistant Superintendent; ii) to conduct strategy sessions 
in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with EAL to hear a grievance over a former teacher’s bumping 
rights; and iii) to discuss strategy with respect to litigation of an Open Meeting Law complaint 
filed by Joel Hart.2  
  
The September 8 meeting was held as planned.  The Board convened in open session at 
5:32 P.M. and unanimously voted by roll call to convene in executive session for the three 
specific purposes listed on the notice.3  The Board has publicly released the minutes of this 
executive session. 
 
During the executive session, Superintendent Marilyn Tencza reviewed the terms of a 
contract with Mr. Lind, including annual salary, benefits and holidays.  The Board unanimously 
accepted “the salary arrangement for Mr. Lind . . . along with the usual benefits.”  Although not 
at issue here, the Board also discussed a grievance by a former teacher and an Open Meeting 
Law complaint.  At the conclusion of the executive session, the Board adjourned the meeting. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  A public 
body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the 
Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is 
recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether 
 
2 We note that the notice for the September 8 meeting listed all three matters to be discussed in executive session 
pursuant to the Open Meeting Law’s executive session Purpose 3.  While a public body is not required to provide 
the specific statutory citation to the executive session purpose it plans to convene under, the public body must at 
least provide a sufficient description of the executive session purpose.  See OML 2016-95.  We find that the notice 
provided a sufficient description to make the public aware of the discussion topics even though discussions 
regarding nonunion personnel are appropriate under Purpose 2, not Purpose 3.   
3 The Open Meeting Law requires that the vote to convene in executive session must be “recorded by roll call and 
entered into the minutes” and that “any vote taken at an executive session shall be recorded by roll call and entered 
into the minutes.”  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(b)(2), 22(b).  We remind the Committee that even unanimous votes need to be 
recorded by roll call in the minutes.  See OML 2015-131; OML 2013-195.   
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.4   
 
A public body may convene in executive session to “conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 
2”).  While a public body may agree on terms with individual nonunion personnel in executive 
session, the final vote to execute such agreements must be taken by the public body in open 
session.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2); OML 2015-184; OML 2013-195; OML 2011-56; OML 
2011-44; OML 2011-28. 
 
During the September 8 meeting, the Board convened in executive session and discussed 
contract terms for a new Assistant Superintendent.  We find that the Committee’s discussion of 
the Assistant Superintendent’s contract fit within the parameters of executive session Purpose 2, 
as the discussions pertained to contract negotiations.  See OML 2015-10.  Although a public 
body may strategize about specific nonunion personnel in executive session under Purpose 2, the 
scope of the purpose is limited to the discussions, negotiations, and deliberations that occur prior 
to the execution of a contract.  See OML 2019-51.   
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee failed to convene in open session after the 
executive session to approve the Assistant Superintendent’s contract.  The Committee contends 
that only the Superintendent has the authority to execute the Assistant Superintendent’s contract 
and since the Superintendent is not subject to the Open Meeting Law, “the contract did not need 
to be executed in public session.”  Here, the Committee has an established policy that authorizes 
the Superintendent to negotiate individual nonunion contracts while the Committee approves the 
rate of compensation.  During the September 8 executive session meeting, the Committee 
approved the salary terms for the new Assistant Superintendent position and the Superintendent 
thereafter signed a contract with Mr. Lind.  We find that the Committee was not required to 
approve the contract in open session where the Committee did not have the authority to formally 
approve or ratify the employment contract.  We therefore find that the Committee did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law by agreeing on the terms of compensation in executive session.  See 
OML 2019-51. 
  
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter.   
  
 
 
 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Tammy Tebo – By email only:  
 Leicester School Committee c/o Chair Tom Lauder – By email only:    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
