===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200
(617) 727-4765 TTY
www.mass.gov/ago
May 31, 2022 
OML 2022 – 101 
VIA EMAIL 
Janelle Austin, Esq. 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Austin: 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty on March 25, 2022, alleging that the 
Harwich Finance Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on March 10, and you
responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated March 25.1 In his complaint, Mr. Beaty
alleges that the Committee continued to deliberate after the Committee’s March 3 meeting had
been adjourned.
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s 
response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also 
communicated by email with Mr. Beaty in April of 2022 and with you in May of 2022. Finally, 
we reviewed the end of the video recording of the Committee’s March 3 meeting, which includes 
the first few seconds of the post-adjournment discussion.  
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may 
be discussed at a meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.” Id. A one-way 
communication from one public body member to a quorum on business within a body’s 
jurisdiction is deliberation, even if no other members respond. See OML 2020-136; OML 2019-
144.2 In addition, a quorum of a public body may not continue to discuss public body business 
after an open meeting is adjourned. See OML 2020-165; OML 2014-6. 
 Here, the Committee concedes that, after the March 3 meeting had been adjourned by a 
vote of the Committee, one member briefly mentioned to the other five Committee members 
present that he believed more information was needed regarding forecasts for 2023 revenues as 
part of the budget process. This was a short continuation of the Committee’s discussion from the 
evening’s meeting regarding the budget. As this discussion involved a quorum of the Committee, 
and concerned a topic within the Committee’s jurisdiction, we find that the discussion violated 
the Open Meeting Law, as it took place after the March 3 meeting was adjourned.3  
 In response to the complaint, the Committee disclosed and conceded the violation at its 
March 15 meeting. In addition, the Committee added to the minutes of the March 3 meeting a 
section to memorialize the comments that were made after the adjournment. The Committee also 
substantively discussed Mr. Beaty’s Open Meeting Law complaint at its March 22 meeting. 
Finally, the Town has scheduled an Open Meeting Law training for Town public bodies for 
July 26. 
 We must determine whether the Committee’s violation was, as the complainant urges, 
intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public 
body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. 
An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of 
the Law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law. Id. Here, although the Committee’s brief discussion after adjournment was 
improper, we find that the member who offered the comments sincerely, although incorrectly, 
believed that his comments were merely administrative in nature and therefore were not 
deliberation under the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2020-39. We therefore decline to find an 
intentional violation. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by deliberating after the Committee’s March 3 meeting had been adjourned. We order the 
Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the 
Committee that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
3 For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body , 
unless otherwise provided by law. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Committee has nine members, therefore five members 
constitute a quorum.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. As the Committee has already 
taken adequate remedial action, we order no further relief.   
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Ronald Beaty (via e-mail:  
 Harwich Finance Committee c/o Chair Jon Chorey  
 (via e-mail:  
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
