===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 10, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 99 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Jonathan L. Driscoll, Esq. 
Driscoll & Driscoll, P.C. 
 
Jonathan@drilaw.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Driscoll:  
 
On January 28, 2026, this office received a complaint from Christine McCue Potts, 
alleging that the Medfield Housing Authority Board of Commissioners (the “Board”) violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the 
Board on December 22, 2025.  You responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated January 13, 
2026.  The complaint alleges that the Board discussed topics at a meeting it held on December 
16, 2025, that were not listed with sufficient specificity on the meeting notice. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the way 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint, the response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review and attachments thereto.  We also 
listened to an audio recording of the meeting provided by the complainant. 
 
FACTS 
  
We find the facts as follows.  The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on 
December 16, 2025.  The notice included the following topics: 
 
4. Executive Directors [sic] Report 
5. New Business:  Blake Middle School Dinner 
   PMR: Date for Audit 
6. Old Business: Policy Review: Medfield Housing By-Laws 
 
The meeting went forward as scheduled.  Approximately nine minutes into the meeting, 
the Board reached the Executive Director’s report.  The Executive Director reported to the Board 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
on various topics, including but not limited to vacancies, the procurement of new tablets for 
maintenance staff, and insurance premiums.  Board members reviewed documents provided by 
the Executive Director and asked a few questions about the property insurance.  One member 
noted that the Board had “no choice” about the insurance and that he would “like to accept 
whatever is given to us.”  A vote to accept the property insurance followed.  The Executive 
Director then provided information about a change order to the installation of a generator in the 
amount of $10,272.  This proposal also was accepted by vote of the Board.  After the Executive 
Director reported about holiday activities, the Board voted to accept the Executive Director’s 
report.   
 
Next, under “New Business,” the Executive Director provided updates on the Blake 
Middle School Dinner and an audit.  Under “Old Business: Policy Review: Medfield Housing 
By-Laws,” the Executive Director spoke to amendments of bylaws.  She noted that she included 
the grievance policy in the meeting packet.  The Chair proposed tabling a discussion of the 
bylaws until all members were present.  However, another member, Rob Canavan, insisted that 
the Board proceed with the discussion.  He proposed that the bylaws be amended to incorporate 
the Board’s meeting schedule.  Following a brief discussion, the Board voted to approve the 
revised bylaws as amended. 
 
DISCUSSION 
  
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  
The notice must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed 
at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).       
 
The list of topics must be sufficiently specific to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be 
sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand 
the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2024-180; OML 2019-134; 
OML 2015- 35.1  The Open Meeting Law requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient 
specificity so that the public can make an informed decision whether to attend the meeting to 
observe the discussion regarding a topic of interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 
2018-22.  Generic notice topics do not satisfy the requirement of specificity.  See OML 2023-
199; OML 2022-179.  We have found, for example, that “Chairman’s Report” does not 
sufficiently describe a topic on a meeting notice.  See OML 2012-34.  Boilerplate topics and 
placeholder topics lack the specificity required by the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2023-150; 
OML 2021-121; OML 2013-164.  See also OML 2015-74 (“Best practice is ... to use ‘Old 
Business’ as a heading below which more specific topics are listed.”).   
 
When a meeting notice includes as a topic a report or presentation from a person who is 
not a member of the public body, such as “Superintendent’s Report,” “Administrator’s Report” 
 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
or “Report from Department Heads,” we have found no violation for lack of specificity where 
the public body chair did not anticipate the specific nature of the deliberations that took place.  
See OML 2022-45; OML 2018-33; OML 2017-90.2  However, where the Chair delegates to 
another person responsibility for creating the meeting notice, we look to what that person 
anticipated will be discussed 48 hours before the meeting.  See OML 2024-75 (“If a public body 
chair delegates the task of preparing meeting notices to another individual, such as a town 
administrator, the meeting notice must include all topics that the chair as well as all topics that 
the person tasked with creating the meeting notice reasonably anticipate for discussion.”); OML 
2023-140; OML 2022-67. 
 
 Here, the Executive Director had a role in, if not sole responsibility for, preparing the 
notice of the December 16 meeting.  She was aware of the specific items that she planned to 
discuss under the topic of the Executive Director’s report.  Moreover, the Board did not 
passively listen to the Executive Director’s presentation of her report but deliberated and voted 
on multiple topics, including payment of an insurance premium and approval of a change order.  
These specific topics should have been listed on the notice.  See OML 2022-45 (finding violation 
where School Superintendent prepared notice and was reasonably aware of topics to be discussed 
but did not describe topics with sufficient specificity).  As the topic “Executive Director’s 
Report” made no reference to anticipated topics, we find that the notice of the December 16 
meeting was insufficiently specific. 
 
We also find the notice of the December 16 meeting insufficient due to the inclusion of 
the acronym “PMR” without further elaboration.  Inclusion of an acronym that is not widely 
understood by the public will render a notice topic insufficiently specific, in violation of the 
Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2023-83 (“MASC” not widely understood to stand for 
Massachusetts Association of School Committees); OML 2016-5 (“PILOT” not widely 
understood to stand for Payment In Lieu Of Taxes); OML 2015-197 (“TRRP” not widely 
understood to stand for Temporary Repair to Private Roads Policy).  Cf. OML 2015-172 (“FAA” 
widely understood acronym).  Because “PMR” is not widely understood by the public, its 
inclusion as a notice topic did not conform with the Open Meeting Law. 
 
The complaint further alleges that the notice should have listed specific policies discussed 
under the topic of “Policy Review: Medfield Housing By-Laws.”  Although a close question, we 
find that the notice was sufficiently specific as to this topic.  Further information as to what 
policies or bylaws were to be discussed would have been helpful to the public.  However, 
omission of that information did not violate the Open Meeting Law where it informed the public 
that the Board would review the Medfield Houring bylaws.  Additionally, we do not find the 
notice insufficiently specific for lack of any reference to the Board’s schedule being incorporated 
into the bylaws.  The Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to list all tangential 
topics related to a discussion or list every detail about a topic, nor does the law require a public 
body to anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion.  See OML 2026-26.  
The Law only requires that the notice identify the discussion topic with sufficient specificity to 
 
2 Under those circumstances, we have encouraged public body chairs as a best practice to solicit from public 
officials more detail regarding the topics to be discussed at the public body’s meeting under a “report” item and 
include on the meeting notice more detail regarding the precise matters to be discussed.  See OML 2022-45; OML 
2020-44. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2025-66; 2022-98; OML 2015-73; OML 2014-38. The 
discussion of the Board’s schedule and its inclusion in the bylaws flowed naturally from the 
notice topic “Policy Review: Medfield Housing By-Laws.”  See OML 2025-25 (finding 
“discussions about the facilities maintenance service agreement and municipal employees 
naturally flowed from the discussion of the quarterly budget”); OML 2021-37 (finding 
discussion of health agent’s failure to obtain permit to keep chickens at home and dilapidated 
state of garage on her property naturally flowed from posted topic of personnel discussion of 
health agent).  Because we find that the discussion of the Board’s schedule naturally flowed from 
the discussion of the bylaws, we find no violation as to this allegation. 
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board viola ted the Open Meeting Law 
when it discussed anticipated topics that were not listed with sufficient specificity in the notice of 
the December 16, 2025, meeting.  We order immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law.     
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
  
  
Matthew
 Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
 
cc: Christine McCue Potts (via email: ) 
 Marion Bonoldi, Medfield Town Clerk (via e mail: mbonoldi@medfield.net) 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.   
