===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
February 7, 2018 
OML 2018-14 
Katherine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan on October 20 alleging that the 
Ashland Board of Health (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 6; and you responded, on behalf 
of the Board, by letter dated September 27. The complaint alleges that the Board discussed 
topics that were not listed on the meeting notice during its September 5 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed 
the notice of and open session minutes from the Board's September 5 meeting; as well as a video 
recording of that meeting.2 
We find the facts as follows. On August 9, Judith Margulies filed an Open Meeting Law 
complaint with the Board, alleging that, on July 11, the Board convened an unnoticed meeting 
immediately following its regularly scheduled meeting and discussed topics during this portion 
of the meeting that were not listed on the meeting notice. 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year, 2017. 
2 The video recording is available at http://98.118.96.i86/vod/2330-Board-of-Health-September-5-2017-Medium-
vl.mp4. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
On August 31, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on Tuesday, September 5 
at 7:00 p.m. The notice listed three topics: Call to Order, Consideration of an Open Meeting 
Law Complaint filed by Judith Margulies, and Adjourn. 
The September 5 meeting was held as planned. Ms. Margulies was Chair of the Board at 
the time the Open Meeting Law complaint was filed and at the time of this meeting. However, 
she was not present at the September 5 meeting. The Board discussed Ms. Margulies' complaint 
and approved its legal counsel's response to the complaint. The Board also discussed avoiding 
future open meeting law complaints by suggesting it follow its set policies and procedures with 
respect to the creation of notices and the scheduling of meetings. The Board then voted to 
review its policies and procedures with legal counsel at its next meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting "at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays" and that every 
notice include "the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies 
must list topics for discussion with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to 
include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35; OML 
2012-71; OML 2011-44.3 
The complaint alleges that the Board discussed topics during its September 5 meeting 
that were not listed on the meeting notice, including policies and procedures of the Board and 
use of legal counsel. Here, the notice for the Board's September 5 meeting listed one discussion 
topic, the open meeting law complaint filed by Ms. Margulies. While the Board discussed the 
complaint and unanimously approved legal counsel's proposed response, it also discussed the 
broader topic of how to avoid future open meeting law complaints. Specifically, the Board 
discussed avoiding open meeting law complaints by following its own policies and procedures 
with respect to scheduling regular meetings, creating notices that list a reasonable number of 
topics, and addressing noticed topics during meetings. Finally, the Board discussed and 
approved inviting its legal counsel to its next meeting to review those policies and procedures. 
We find that the Board's discussion relating to its policies and procedures naturally flowed from 
its consideration of the posted agenda item, such that the notice was sufficient to inform the 
public of the discussion that occurred. See OML 2014-44; OML 2014-38. Moreover, it is 
reasonably foreseeable that a public body may take action and hold a vote following discussion 
of a topic listed on a meeting notice, even where the noticed topic does not indicate the 
possibility of a vote. See OML 2015-66; OML 2012-75. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Stephen Morgan 
Ashland Board of Health 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member of a 
body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 