===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, M ASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
February 1, 2017 
OML 2017-22 
Michael Sacco, Esq. 
PO Box 479 
Southampton, MA 01073 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Sacco: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on November 14, alleging 
that the Fall River Retirement Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about November 
7, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, in a letter dated November 9. In his 
complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that the Board failed to file its certifications indicating 
receipt of the Open Meeting Law materials with the City Clerk. 
Following our review, we resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance 
with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a). We find that, while the Board had not filed the certifications 
with the City Clerk, the Board had indeed signed the certifications forms, and thus any 
resulting error was harmless. 
According to the Attorney General's Regulations, within two weeks after receipt of 
the Open Meeting Law materials, which include the Open Meeting Law, the Attorney 
General's regulations and the Attorney General's Guide to the Open Meeting Law, local 
public body members shall certify, on the form prescribed by the Attorney General, receipt 
of such materials. 940 CMR 29.04(1). The municipal clerk shall maintain the signed 
certification for each such person, indicating the date the person received the materials. Id. 
The Board signed the certifications as required, but maintained them with the Board's 
other records, rather than filing them with the City Clerk, under the good faith belief that it 
was not a local public body. The Board has since filed the signed certifications with the 
City Clerk. For the foregoing reasons, we conclude that any error was harmless. 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
MAURA FIEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc; Patrick Higgins 
Fall River Retirement Board 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of 
receipt of a final order. 
2 