===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
December 31, 2019
OML 2019-170
Kevin Smith, Esq.
Arrowood LLP 
10 Post Office Square 
7th Floor South 
Boston, MA 02109
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Smith:
This office received seven complaints alleging that the Saugus School Committee (the 
“Committee”)1 violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Four complaints were 
filed by members of the Moore family (William Moore, Ryan Moore, Christian Moore, and 
Donna Moore) (the “Moore Complaints”). The Moore Complaints were originally filed with the 
Committee on or about June 18 and 19.2 Two complaints were filed by Mark Vogler on behalf of 
the Saugus Advocate (the “Vogler Complaints”). The first Vogler Complaint was originally filed 
with the Committee on or about June 17. The second Vogler Complaint was originally filed with 
the Committee on or about June 28. Lastly, Eric McKenna, on behalf of the American Federation 
of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 93, filed a complaint with the Committee on 
or about June 17 (the “McKenna Complaint”).
After receiving an extension of time from our office to respond to the complaints, you 
responded on behalf of the Committee to all seven complaints by letters dated July 19. The 
complaints were thereafter filed with our office for further review.
Six of the seven complaints relate to an executive session the Committee held on May 8. 
The second Vogler complaint relates to an executive session the Committee held on June 26. The 
six complaints concerning the Committee’s May 8 meeting collectively allege as follows: 1) the 
Committee entered into executive session without a proper purpose, 2) the Chair failed to state 
that holding the executive session discussion in open session would have a detrimental effect on 
the negotiating position of the Committee, 3) the Committee discussed matters in executive
1 Many of the complaints are also filed against the Superintendent of the Saugus Public Schools, Dr. David DeRuosi. 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and individuals acting as public body members. Therefore, we 
do not review allegations that Dr. DeRuosi violated the Open Meeting Law.
2 All dates are in 2019.

===PAGE 2===
session that were not listed on the meeting notice, 4) the Committee failed to create minutes of 
the May 8 executive session, and 5) the Committee’s violations were intentional. The Vogler 
Complaint concerning the Committee’s June 26 meeting alleges that the Committee discussed a 
topic during executive session that was not proper for executive session.3
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by holding an executive 
session on May 8 without a proper purpose and failing to follow proper procedures for 
convening in executive session. We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the other ways alleged. In reaching our determination, we reviewed the complaints; the 
Committee’s responses; the requests for further review, including additional materials provided 
therewith; the minutes of the May 8 and June 26 executive sessions, which we reviewed in 
camera; and the notices for the May 8 and June 26 meetings. We also communicated with 
counsel for the Committee4 by email and with Christian Moore by phone.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. On May 3, the Committee posted notice for a May 8 
meeting. The only substantive topic included on the notice was
7:15 AM Executive Session (In Accordance with M.G.L. c.30A, Sec. 21(a))
• Move into Executive Session for the purpose of Collective Bargaining with 
the Custodians and The Superintendent's Contract. Not to return to open 
session.
1. Collective Bargaining for the Custodians
2. Superintendent's Contract.
At the May 8 meeting, a member of the Committee moved to enter executive session “for the 
purpose of collective bargaining with the custodians in accordance with M.G.L. c.30A, sec 21 
(a).” The Chair seconded the motion. The minutes reflect that a “roll call” was taken and that 
members Ms. Gaieski, Mr. Magliozzi, Ms. Marchese, Ms. Meredith, and Ms. Morgante were 
each present.
The minutes of the executive session have not been released to the public and were 
reviewed in camera', therefore, we do not reveal their specific contents. During the Committee’s 
executive session, it discussed the process of outsourcing custodial services, potential cost 
savings, and a proposed plan for how to utilize those cost savings. Although the Committee had 
limited discussion regarding the impact bargaining it was engaged in with the union representing
3 The complaints raise additional allegations that, even if true, would not constitute Open Meeting Law violations, as 
well as allegations that, even if true, were not timely raised. We do not address these allegations. See OML 2019-
113; OML Declination 6-25-18 (Rowley Planning Commission).
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person going forward.
2

===PAGE 3===
custodial staff, the executive session discussion was predominately focused on these other topics 
noted above. The Committee approved the minutes of its May 8 executive session on June 26.5
On June 24, the Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on June 26. The notice 
included the following:
7:15 a.m. Executive Session (In Accordance with M.G.L.c30A, sec 21(a))
• Move into Executive Session for the purpose of collective bargaining; clause 2 non 
union personnel, Administrators, clerks, OT, PT, IT Director, Finance Director ; 
clause 3 collective bargaining: SEA, Clerks, Paraprofessionals, update on 
Custodians (impact bargaining) vote may be needed.
• Litigation - Kim Tobey vs. Town of Saugus, Michael Mabee
• Review and approve executive session minutes May 8, 2019 M.G.L . 30 A sec 22 
(f), (g) clause 7
• To review Open Meeting Law Complaints
The minutes of the June 26 executive session have not been released to the public and 
were reviewed in camera; therefore, we do not reveal their specific content here. During the June 
26 executive session, the Committee discussed the impact bargaining with the union representing 
custodial staff, a litigation matter, Open Meeting Law complaints, and executive session minutes.
DISCUSSION
_L The Complaints Were Timely Filed.
As an initial matter, we must determine whether the complaints were timely filed. To be 
considered timely, a written Open Meeting Law complaint setting forth the circumstances which 
constitute the alleged violation must, among other things, be filed with the public body within 30 
days of the date of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). “[I]f the alleged violation ... 
could not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then [the complaint must be filed] 
within 30 days of the date [the violation] should reasonably have been discovered.” 940 CMR 
29.05(4). When an alleged violation occurs during an open meeting, the alleged violation is 
reasonably discoverable at the time it occurs. See OML 2014-85; OML 2012-52.
In its response, the Committee argues that because it announced that it would enter 
executive session in open session on May 8, the alleged violations were discoverable on May 8. 
We disagree. The Committee’s announcement in open session did not reveal all of the topics to 
be discussed in executive session in enough detail to determine at that time whether the 
executive session discussions fell within a proper purpose. It wasn’t until the complainants 
learned what was actually discussed in executive session that the alleged Open Meeting Law 
violations became apparent. In particular, information making the complainants aware that Open
5 We note that the Committee did not timely approve the May 8 meeting minutes. Meeting minutes must be 
reviewed and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); 940 CMR 29.11 (2). The Attorney General's Open 
Meeting Law regulations define “timely manner” as “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, 
whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.” 940 CMR 29.11 (2). Whenever 
possible, we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2019-20. Here, the 
Committee approved the May 8 minutes at the fourth meeting, 49 days after the May 8 meeting. We remind the 
Committee of its obligation to timely review and approve the minutes of all meetings.
3

===PAGE 4===
Meeting Law violations may have occurred during the May 8 executive session did not come to 
light until emails from two Committee members were made public. On June 12, the Saugus 
Advocate received these emails in response to a public records request. On June 14, the Saugus 
Advocate published an article regarding the May 8 executive session and the belief of two 
members of the Committee that the executive session had not been properly held. The latest 
complaint was filed June 19, well within 30 days of the reasonable discovery of the potential 
violations. Therefore, we find that all seven complaints were timely filed.
2. The Committee Convened in Executive Session on May 8 Without Following the Proper
Procedure and Discussed Topics That Did Not Fall Within a Proper Purpose.
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a 
public body be conducted in an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). 
Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes, 
provided that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for the 
executive session, “stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose 
for which the executive session was called,” and whether the public body will reconvene in open 
session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3)-(4); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. 
Comm, of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for 
convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only notification given the 
public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would 
know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”). Additionally, a majority of the public 
body must vote to enter into executive session and the vote must be recorded by roll call and 
entered into the meeting minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(2). The exceptions to the general rule that 
meetings of a public body shall be open are narrowly construed. See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 
Mass. App. Ct. 637, 641 (2008); OML 2014-42.6
To begin, we find that the Committee committed several procedural missteps when 
convening in executive session on May 8. First, the Chair did not make the required 
announcement in open session stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising 
the purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). In addition, 
the Chair failed to state whether the Committee would reconvene in open session. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(b)(4). Finally, the Committee did not vote to enter into executive session by roll call, 
with the vote of each member recorded and entered into the minutes. See G.L. c. 30A, §
21(b)(2).
Next, we must determine whether the Committee’s May 8 discussion fell within one of 
the enumerated executive session purposes. We find that it did not. One permissible reason to 
convene in executive session is “[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations 
with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations 
with nonunion personnel.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”). A public body must identify, 
both in its notice and in the open session announcement, the nonunion personnel or collective
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
4

===PAGE 5===
bargaining unit with whom it will be negotiating, if doing so will not compromise the lawful 
purpose for secrecy. See OML 2019-132. Another permissible reason to convene in executive 
session is “to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body 
and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).
Although the Committee did not specify a statutory purpose for its executive session, the 
language “Move into Executive Session for the purpose of Collective Bargaining with the 
Custodians and The Superintendent's Contract” in the May 8 meeting notice suggests that the 
Committee intended to claim executive session Purpose 2. As stated above, Purpose 2 allows a 
public body to meet in executive session “[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract 
negotiations with nonunion personnel.” Relevant to the complaints at issue here, the Committee 
did not conduct collective bargaining sessions during its May 8 executive session. Therefore, 
Purpose 2 was inapplicable to this executive session. See OML 2015-126.
Although Purpose 2 was inapplicable to the May 8 executive session, we review whether 
the executive session was proper under Purpose 3. We find that it was not. Purpose 3 allows a 
public body “to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body 
and the chair so declares.” During the Committee’s executive session, it discussed the process of 
outsourcing custodial services, potential cost savings, and a proposed plan for how to utilize 
those cost savings. Although the Committee had limited discussion regarding the impact 
bargaining it was engaged in with the union representing custodial staff, the executive session 
discussion was predominately focused on these other topics. Purpose 3 limits discussion to those 
topics that directly correlate to collective bargaining negotiations, rather than broader policy or 
budgetary matters. See OML 2017-54. We therefore find that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by discussing topics that were not authorized by executive session Purpose 3, or 
any other purpose. Additionally, we take this opportunity to remind the Committee that, even if 
an executive session is lawfully convened, each topic to be discussed must be individually 
identified on the meeting notice as well as in the announcement in open session prior to entering 
executive session, and the Committee’s discussions must adhere to those identified topics. See 
OML 2015-54; OML 2013-195.
Because the Committee convened in executive session without a proper purpose and 
without following proper convening procedure, we order the Committee, within 30 days of this 
letter, to publicly release the May 8 executive session minutes. The Committee may not redact or 
withhold any portion of the minutes. See G.L c. 30A, § 22(f) (“The minutes of any executive 
session ... may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety ... as long as publication 
may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer; provided, however, that 
the executive session was held in compliance with section 21”); OML 2014-42.
5

===PAGE 6===
3. We Do Not Find the Committee’s Violations to Be Intentional.7
Finally, we must determine whether the Committee’s violations were intentional, as the 
McKenna complaint alleges. An intentional violation is
an act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of 
M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25. Evidence of an intentional violation ... shall 
include, but not be limited to, that the public body or public body member: (a) acted 
with specific intent to violate the law; (b) acted with deliberate ignorance of the 
law's requirements; or (c) was previously informed by receipt of a decision from a 
court of competent jurisdiction or advised by the Attorney General, pursuant to 940 
CMR 29.07 or 940 CMR 29.08, that the conduct violates [the Law]. Where a public 
body or public body member has made a good faith attempt at compliance with the 
law, but was reasonably mistaken about its requirements, such conduct will not be 
considered an intentional violation.
940 CMR 29.02.
The McKenna complaint alleges that the “Committee acted intentionally in its violations . 
.. as evidenced by the Committe[e] chair’s failure to acknowledge members’ requests to revoke 
votes already taken; and the [Committee’s] failure to vote in open session following the May 8, 
2019 executive session meeting.” Neither of these assertions relating to a failure to take 
corrective action after the fact, even if true, demonstrates that the Committee acted in intentional 
violation of the Open Meeting Law on May 8. In addition, Mr. Vogler cites to a 2018 
determination in which this office found that the Committee violated the Law, in part, by 
convening in executive session without a proper purpose. See OML 2018-95. In the 2018 
determination, we found that the Committee had not identified an individual non-union 
employee to be discussed in executive session and instead improperly discussed non-union 
personnel as a collective group. In the instant case, the Committee did identify that it would be 
discussing collective bargaining with the custodians, but then discussed other topics not 
appropriate for executive session. We therefore find that the Committee did not act to 
intentionally violate the Law in the instant case. Nonetheless, we note the similarities between 
this matter and the 2018 determination, and we caution the Committee that similar violations in 
the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. In addition, we order each 
member of the Committee to view the Attorney General’s training video on executive sessions, 
as detailed below.
4. The Committee’s June 26 Executive Session Discussions Were Proper.
Mr. Vogler alleges that the Committee improperly discussed privatizing custodial 
services for the school in executive session on June 26. We find that the Committee’s executive
7 In the response to the complaints, Counsel states that because the Committee followed the advice of town counsel 
with regard to its procedure for convening in executive session, it cannot be found to have intentionally violated the 
Open Meeting Law. This is inaccurate. While the 2015 determination Counsel cites to supports his contention, see 
OML 2015-55, the Law and our regulations have since been amended and now clearly state that relying on the 
advice of counsel is a defense to the imposition of a penalty, not to a finding that a violation was intentional. See 
G.L c. 30A, § 23(g); 940 CMR 29.07(3)(d).
6

===PAGE 7===
session discussions held on June 26 were proper. The Committee posted the following topics for 
its June 26 meeting:
7:15 a.m. Executive Session (In Accordance with M.G.L.c30A, sec 21(a))
• Move into Executive Session for the purpose of collective bargaining; clause 2 non 
union personnel, Administrators, clerks, OT, PT, IT Director, Finance Director ; 
clause 3 collective bargaining: SEA, Clerks, Paraprofessionals, update on 
Custodians (impact bargaining) vote may be needed.
• Litigation - Kim Tobey vs. Town of Saugus, Michael Mabee
• Review and approve executive session minutes May 8, 2019 M.G.L . 30 A sec 22 
(f), (g) clause 7
• To review Open Meeting Law Complaints
During the June 26 executive session, the Committee discussed the impact bargaining 
with the union representing custodial staff, a litigation matter, Open Meeting Law complaints, 
and executive session minutes. We find that each of these discussions fell under a proper 
executive session purpose. The discussions of the impact bargaining and the litigation matter 
were proper under Purpose 3 which allows a public body to enter into executive session “[t]o 
discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3).8 Likewise, the discussion of the Open Meeting Law 
complaints was proper under Purpose 1. Purpose 1 allows a public body to discuss “the 
reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, 
of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought 
against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). Our 
office has unequivocally stated that public bodies may meet in executive session under Purpose 1 
to review Open Meeting Law complaints against the body. See OML 2015-105; OML 2013-82; 
OML 2012-119; OML 2011-6.9 Finally, the review and approval of executive session minutes is 
proper either under the original purpose for the executive session, or under Purpose 7 “[t]o 
comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or special law or federal grant-in-aid 
requirements.” See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7); FAQ on Executive Session Minutes.10 Because each
8 We note that the minutes of the June 26 executive session reflect that the Committee made the same procedural 
missteps when convening in executive session on June 26 as it did on May 8 and that the Chair failed to make the 
required statement under Purpose 3 that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the Committee’s 
bargaining position.
9 We note that the executive session topic “[t]o review Open Meeting Law Complaints” should have included the 
name of the individuals who filed the Open Meeting Law complaints to be discussed, if doing so would not have 
compromised the purpose for the executive session. See 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2019-31; OML 2017-53; OML 
20 16-43; OML 2013-82; OML 2011-54.
10 Available at https://www.mass.gov/info-details/frequentlv-asked-auestions-about-the-open-meeting- 
law#frequently-asked-questions-about-meeting-minutes-
Can a public body convene in executive session to approve executive session minutes?
Yes, a public body may convene in executive session to review and approve executive session 
minutes. A public body may convene in executive session under the original purpose for the 
executive session, or it may convene in executive session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7) “[t]o
7

===PAGE 8===
discussion during the June 26 executive session was proper under one or more of the ten 
enumerated purposes outlined in the Open Meeting Law, we find that the Committee’s June 26 
executive session did not violate the Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by holding a discussion in executive session on May 8 that did not fall within a proper purpose 
and by failing to follow proper procedures for convening in executive session. We find that the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged. We order the 
Committee, within 30 days of this letter, to publicly release the May 8 executive session minutes 
in accordance with the guidance given above. In addition, we order all members of the 
Committee to review the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law training video concerning 
executive sessions, available online at https://www.mass.gov/service-details/open-meeting-law- 
training-videos, and to certify to our office in writing that they have done so. We order 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that future similar 
violations may result in a finding of an intentional violation, including the imposition of a 
monetary fine. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c)(4).
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Saugus School Committee
William Moore 
Christian Moore 
Ryan Moore 
Donna Moore 
Mark Vogler 
Eric McKenna
comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or special law or federal grant-in-aid 
requirements” (“Purpose 7’), citing to the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c.30A, §§ 22(f), (g).
8

===PAGE 9===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
9
