===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 18, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 207 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Eldon Garhart  
Chair, Ashby Finance Committee 
egarhartfincom@gmail.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Garhart: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick McPhee on September 12, 2022,
1 alleging 
that the Ashby Finance Committee (the “Committee”), and specifically its Chair, violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on August 8, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by email to Mr. 
McPhee.
2 The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Committee attended the Ashby 
Selectboard’s (the “Selectboard”) August 3 meeting without posting notice of a joint meeting.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Chair’s communication with our office, the request for further review, additional information 
provided by Mr. McPhee, and a video recording of the Selectboard’s August 3 meeting.3 We also 
communicated with Mr. McPhee by telephone and email.  
 
 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 It does not appear that the Committee met to review the complaint and formulate a response or designate authority 
to respond. We remind the Committee of its obligation to comply with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, 
including the requirements regarding review of and response to Open Meeting Law complaints. G.L. c. 30A, §  
23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
3 A video recording of the Selectboard’s August 3 meeting can be found at https://vimeo.com/738733833.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
 The Committee is a five-member public body; therefore, three members constitute a 
quorum. The Selectboard posted notice for a remote meeting to be held on August 3 at 7:00 p.m. 
The Selectboard held its meeting as scheduled. Eldon Garhart, the Chair of the Committee, and 
Committee member Rebecca Walsh both attended the Selectboard’s August 3 meeting. The 
complaint asserts, and the Committee does not deny, that Committee member Kathy Panagiotes 
also attended the meeting.   
 
 During the Selectboard ’s August 3 meeting, Rebecca Walsh, speaking as a member of the 
Pump Track Committee, addressed the Board regarding the status of the Town’s efforts to build 
a pump track. Later, during public comment and after being recognized by the Chair of the 
Selectboard, Chair Garhart asked if the Selectboard had skipped notice topic number ten relating 
to a cell tower lease. The Chair of the Selectboard clarified that they had addressed that topic. 
Chair Garhart had no further questions or comments.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “[e] xcept in an emergency, . . . a public body shall 
post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to the meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The Open Meeting Law defines a “meeting” as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction,” with 
limited exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Open Meeting Law specifies that “meeting” shall not 
include “attendance by a quorum of a public body at a meeting of another public body that has 
complied with the notice requirements of the open meeting law, so long as the visiting members 
communicate only by open participation in the meeting on those matters under discussion by the 
host body and do not deliberate.” Id. “Deliberation,” in turn, is defined as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction,” with limited exceptions. Id. 
 
We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to post 
notice for a joint meeting with the Selectboard on August 3. We were unable to independently 
verify whether a quorum of the Committee was in fact in attendance at the August 3 meeting; 
regardless, no member of the Committee discussed Committee business during the Selectboard’s 
meeting. Instead, Rebecca Walsh spoke as a member of the Pump Track Committee, and Chair 
Garhart asked one clarifying question about a topic on the Selectboard’s agenda. The Open 
Meeting Law allows a quorum of a public body to attend the meeting of another public body 
without posting notice, provided that the members of the visiting public body do not deliberate. 
Here, a quorum of the Committee did not deliberate during the Selectboard’s August 3 meeting 
and so we find no violation.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick McPhee (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
