===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 26, 2013 
OML 2013-123 
Director of Assessing 
355 East Central Street 
Franklin, MA 02038 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Doyle: 
This office received a complaint from David MacLean, dated February 15, 2013, alleging 
that the Franklin Board of Assessors (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25, by failing to complete the requisite certification forms required by the Law. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about December 18, 2012, and the Board 
responded to the original complaint by letter dated February 7, 2013. 
We reviewed the December 18, 2012 complaint filed with the Board; the Board's 
February 7, 2013 response; and the February 15, 2013 complaint filed with our office, requesting 
further review. Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to distribute, execute and retain the certification forms of each Board member. 
The Open Meeting Law states that "[within] 2 weeks of qualification for the office, all 
persons serving on a public body shall certify ... the receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, 
regulations promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a copy of the educational material prepared 
by the attorney general explaining the open meeting law and its application pursuant to section 
19." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g). The Law further states that "the appointing authority, city or town 
clerk or the executive director or other appropriate administrator of a state or regional body, or 
their designees, shall obtain such certification from each person upon entering service and shall 
retain it subject to the applicable records retention schedule where the body maintains its official 
records. The certification shall be evidence that the member of a public body has read and 
understands the requirements of the open meeting law and the consequences of violating it." Id 
While the certification forms must be submitted to and retained by the clerk, compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law's certification provisions remains the responsibility of public bodies and 
public body members. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g); OML 2012-79. 
According to Town Clerk Deborah Pellegri, each Board member received "proper 
documentation on the Open Meeting Law" at the time of being sworn into office, but the Board 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Kevin Doyle 
O 
===PAGE 2===
members did not sign the certification form required under the Law. We therefore find that the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law, and order the Board to certify within thirty (30) days of 
receipt of this letter, on the form1 approved by the Office of the Attorney General, that they have 
received a copy of the Open Meeting Law, the Attorney General's regulations, and the Attorney 
General's Open Meeting Law Guide. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g). We also order the Board to 
certify to this Office within thirty (30) days of receipt of this letter that they have complied with 
this order. Finally, we order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and 
caution the Board that a similar future violation may be considered evidence of an intentional 
violation of the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
cc: David MacLean 
Mark Cerel, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
1 These forms can be found on our website, at www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 