===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
October 11, 2018
OML 2018-136
Christopher Petrini, City Solicitor 
City of Framingham 
372 Union Avenue 
Framingham, MA 01702
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Petrini:
This office received a complaint from Deborah Butler, dated July 11, alleging that the 
Framingham Flag Day Parade Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on May 25, and 
the Committee responded by letter dated June 11. In her complaint, Ms. Butler alleges that the 
Committee held meetings without following the requirements of the Open Meeting Law.
Following our review, we find that the Committee is not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee’s response, and the request for further review filed with our office. We spoke with 
the complainant by telephone on September 13, and we spoke with the Committee’s legal 
counsel by telephone on September 24.2
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. Prior to the events referenced in this letter, Framingham 
had not held a Flag Day parade in several years. The parade was previously organized by a 
public body that consisted solely of members of the public.
In April 2017, the citizens of Framingham voted to change from a town form of 
government and to become a city. In November 2017, the citizens elected Framingham’s first 
mayor. After her election, the mayor requested two individual city employees to resume parades 
on Flag Day. These employees, in turn, created a group consisting of representatives from city 
departments, community organizations, and other stakeholders in the community. This advisory 
group—the Committee— met multiple times over several months, although the group did not
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.

===PAGE 2===
have a quorum requirement for meetings and did not always take formal votes. The Committee 
did not post notices of these meetings and it did not keep minutes. On May 2, the complainant 
observed several Committee members holding a discussion on a public sidewalk.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law defines a “public body,” in relevant part, as “a multiple member 
board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or 
within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Supreme Judicial 
Court recognized an exemption to the Open Meeting Law in Connelly v. School Committee of 
Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991). In Connelly, the Court held that where an individual public 
official creates a committee to advise that person on a decision that he has the sole authority to 
make, that committee is not subject to the Open Meeting Law. Connelly, 409 Mass, at 235.
Here, the complaint alleges that the Committee held meetings without following the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law. In its response, the Committee argues that it is not a 
public body subject to the law. Indeed, the Committee was created at the direction of an 
individual public official—here, the mayor. The Committee’s legal counsel stated to us that the 
mayor retains discretion over the Flag Day parade, and the complaint does not provide 
information to contradict this point.3 See OML 2017-138 (absent sufficient evidence to the 
contrary, we credit a public body’s version of the facts).4 We therefore conclude that the 
Committee fits squarely within the Connelly exception and it is therefore not subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, and did not violate its requirements.5
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee is a not a public body subject to 
the Open Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you 
have any questions.
Sincerely,
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
3 To the extent that the complaint alleges the Committee to be a preexisting public body that was in operation prior 
to the transition to the city form of government, we note that the composition of the two bodies differs significantly. 
Where the former body was composed solely of members of the public, the Committee has many city employees as 
members.
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: 
www. mass. go v/ago/openmeeting.
5 Additionally, while the Committee has voted on certain occasions, it is unclear whether the Committee is 
empowered to take any collective action, such as making a final recommendation to the mayor. See OML 2010-1 
(factors to consider in finding the existence of a public body includes ability to take collective action).
2

===PAGE 3===
cc: Deborah Butler
Framingham Flag Day Parade Committee
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3
