===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
November 1, 2011 
OML 2011-45 
Mr. James Caviston, Chairman 
Board of Trustees 
Gloucester Community Arts Charter School 
2 Blackburn Drive 
Gloucester, MA 01930 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint/J. Grow 
Dear Mr. Caviston: 
On November 22, 2010, our office received a complaint filed by Mr. Jason Grow (the 
"Complainant"), alleging that the Board of Trustees of the Gloucester Community Arts Charter 
School (the "GCACS Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§18-25, by 
inappropriately convening an emergency meeting. Specifically, the complaint alleges that: 
[O]n Thursday, November 18th, GCACS Ex. Dir. Tony Blackman posted 
a Board of Trustees meeting set for Saturday Nov. 20th  at 11a. A previously 
posted meeting for Friday was cancelled, rescheduled and cancelled again 
when it was determined that it no longer satisfied the OM L 48-hour requirement...When 
this was pointed out to Chair BallM, an email response indicated that the meeting would 
now be considered an 'emergency' meeting and proceed. Clearly the intent of the 
'emergency' provision of the OML is designed to accommodate actual unforeseen events 
and not to be manipulated to compensate for poor plaiming. 
The Complainant requests that any actions taken by the GCACS Board during the 
meeting be nullified; that the GCACS Board be required to undergo further training on the Open 
Meeting Law; and that the GCACS Board be ordered to time stamp its meeting notices as 
required by 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). The complaint was originally filed with the GCACS Board on 
November 20, 2010. The response from the GCACS Board was received by this office on 
November 23, 2010. 
In making our determination we reviewed the original complaint; the GCACS Board's 
response; the complaint and request for further review filed with our office; meeting notices for 
the GCACS Board meetings scheduled on November 19, 2010 and November 20, 2010; the 
minutes from the open session of the GCACS Board meeting convened on November 20, 2010; 
0 
===PAGE 2===
the video of the open session of the GCACS Board meeting on November 20, 2010; and emails 
from the Complainant to the Executive Director of the Gloucester Community Arts Charter 
School and to the former Chair of the GCACS Board, respectively. We also discussed the 
timeline of events leading up to the November 20, 2010 meeting with members of the Business 
and Labor Bureau of the Attorney General's Office ("AGO") and reviewed relevant internal 
emails. 
Based upon our review of this information, we find that the GCACS Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b), by convening an emergency meeting on November 20, 
2010 under conditions that do not qualify as an emergency as that term is defined in G.L. c. 30A, 
§18; and by failing to adequately post notice of a meeting. 
FACTS 
On September 15, 2010, the AGO issued findings that the GCACS Board had violated 
the public construction and bidding laws. Following the GCACS Board's submission of 
compliance plans to address these issues, the Attorney General's Office and GCACS entered into 
settlement discussions. On Monday, November 8, 2010, Assistant Attorney General Jed Nosal, 
Chief of the Business and Labor Bureau, forwarded a draft consent agreement that required the 
Board, among other conditions, to abide by the public bidding and construction laws for all future 
construction, obtain the requisite prevailing wage determination for the work from the 
Department of Safety, and establish certain monitoring, reporting and auditing functions, to 
Counsel for the GCACS Board. In addition, the GCACS Board was required to amend its lease 
agreement with the Cape Ann Medical Office Building to reflect the Board's obligations to 
comply with public construction '.nd bidding laws. In his email forwarding the draft consent 
agreement, AAG Nosal noted that the office was "sensitive to the time constraints" faced by the 
Board in meeting the terms of probation set forth by the Board of Elementary and Secondary 
Education, and indicated that he or another attorney were available to answer questions and 
discuss the process of finalizing the agreement at Counsel's convenience. See  Email from J. 
Nosal to C. Zick, November 8, 2010. The draft consent agreement sent to Counsel included the 
date November 20, 2010 as the proposed date by which the GCACS Board was to have amended 
its lease. 
The next communication, in the form of a phone call to GCACS Counsel, was initiated by 
the AGO on November 15, 2010. Counsel returned the phone call on or about November 18, 
2010. According to AAG Nosal, the next time that the AGO and Counsel discussed the terms of 
the consent agreement, including the date by which the GCACS Board was to have amended its 
lease, was November 19, 2010. During the November 19th  phone call, the parties discussed 
changing the November 20th  date to amend the lease to December 15, 2010. During this 
conversation, the AGO and Counsel tentatively agreed to change the date to December 15, 2010. 
GCACS Board Counsel forwarded a red-line version of the consent agreement back to AAG 
Nosal on November 21, 2010. That version of the agreement included the December 15th  date as 
the date by which the GCACS Board had to amend its lease. Further revisions to the consent 
agreement were sent by Attorney Nosal to Counsel on November 23, 2010. The document was 
signed by former GCACS Chair Amy Ballin the same day and thereafter signed by AAG Nosal 
on November 24, 2010. 
Meanwhile, on November 17, 2010, the GCACS Board posted notice of a meeting to 
occur on Friday, November 19, 2010 ("Meeting Notice 1"). As is the GCACS Board's standard 
practice, the notice was sent to the Division of Open Government ("Division") of the Attorney 
===PAGE 3===
General's Office, and received at 2:01 p.m. 
On Thursday, November 18, 2010, the GCACS Board, through its Executive Director, 
posted a second meeting notice for a meeting of the GCACS Board to occur on Saturday, 
November 20, 2010 ("Meeting Notice 2"). This notice contained a notation: "Meeting change 
please note: Meeting previously scheduled for November 19 at 3:30 p.m.—cancelled. Meeting is 
rescheduled. Please see below," which reflected notice of a meeting to be held on Saturday, 
November 20, 2010 at 11:00 a.m. The Division received this notice at 10:21 a.m. Neither the 
notice for the November 19th  meeting nor the notice for the November 20th  meeting 
conspicuously noted the date and time of posting on the face of the notice. 
Another notice was received by the Division at 11:46 a.m. ("Meeting Notice 3"). This 
notice included a statement "Correction: This meeting is not cancelled as previously reported" 
(emphasis in original). This notice contained information about a meeting on November 19, 2010 
at 3:30 p.m. 
At 11:54 a.m. on Thursday, November 18, 2010, the Division received yet another notice 
("Meeting Notice 4") that included the notation: "Please update the meeting notice for November 
20 with this revised notice. The agenda is unchanged. However, the November 19 meeting is not 
cancelled. The Board will meet on both November 19 at 3:30 (sent previously) and November 20 
at 11:00. See attached" (emphasis in original). This fourth notice contained information about a 
meeting on November 20, 2010 at 11:00 a.m. ("Meeting Notice 4"). 
At 1:31 p.m. on Thursday, November 18, 2010, the Division received a fifth notice 
("Meeting Notice 5") that included the notation, "CANCELLED," and stated "Date: November 
19, 2010—CANCELLED" (emphasis in original). 
The following day, on November 19, 2010, the Complainant sent an email to the GCACS 
Executive Director in which he stated that during a conversation with this office he was advised 
that: 
[F]or a Saturday meeting to be properly/legally noticed it would have to have 
been posted on your website by 11:59 pm on Wednesday night allowing a full 
48 hours to elapse (not including Saturday). It is my understanding that your 
website was not updated with the new schedule until yesterday which does not 
afford the GCACS Board of Trustees the required time to conduct this meeting 
in accordance with the OML. 
Additional emails provided by the Complainant indicate that the GCACS Chair was contacted on 
Friday, November 19, 2010 at 11:11 a.m. by Mr. Martin Del Vecchio and asked "[c]an you 
confirm that tomorrow's 11:00 a meeting will take place, despite questions about the 48-hour 
notice period?" Email from J. Grow to J. Sclarsic, November 22, 2010. At 4:44 p.m., Ms. Bailin, 
the GCACS Chair, responded, in relevant part, "I have not heard about issues of posting for 
tomorrows [sic] meeting," to which Mr. Del Vecchio wrote at 5:01 p.m., "[i]t wasn't posted in 
time." Id. Ms. Bailin responded, at 5:08 p.m., "[i]t will be an emergency meeting." Id. 
At 7:56 p.m. on Friday, November 19, 2010, the Division received a sixth and apparently 
final notice ("Meeting Notice 6") that the GCACS Board would convene the next day, Saturday, 
November 20, 2010, at 11:00 a.m. This fmal notice deemed the meeting to be an "emergency" 
meeting and stated that "this emergency meeting of the GCACS board is required to comply with 
certain requirements of its Board of Elementary and Secondary Education probation by 
===PAGE 4===
November 20 and November 24, and this emergency meeting is necessary to consider actions 
regarding those requirements. We regret any confusion or inconvenience that may have been 
caused." 
In its response to the complaint, the GCACS Board states that its actions with regard to 
scheduling the emergency meeting on November 20, 2010 were "the result of conversations with 
the [Attorney General's Office] that we had on November 19. These and other developments are 
reflected in the revised agenda and the notice of an executive session." Response of GCACS 
Board, November 23, 2010. In a footnote to the response, the GCACS Board acknowledges that 
"[i]t is true that the originally scheduled November 19 meeting was cancelled, but the 
cancellation was inadvertent. Once the cancellation occurred, however, that meeting could not go 
forward. However the pressing business of GCACS (including the imminent BESE deadlines) 
required that the Board meet as soon as possible, and so the November 20 meeting was scheduled 
and noticed." Id. 
On November 20, 2010, the GCACS Board convened in a meeting at 11:03 a.m. After 
opening the meeting, Ms. Bailin stated that "the Board called this emergency meeting because the 
Board is required to comply with certain requirements of the probation imposed by the 
Commissioner of Education and the Board of Elementary and Secondary Education probation by 
November 20 and November 24. This emergency meeting was necessary to meet the deadlines 
regarding those requirements." Minutes of the GCACS Board Meeting Open Session, November 
20, 2010; Video. We note that in the response to the complaint, the GCACS Board states that it 
was "informed...that [the AGO] will sue GCACS if a resolution of these public construction 
issues is not reached." 
A conversation with Counsel ensued during which Counsel advised the GCACS Board to 
discuss the terms of the draft consent agreement. The minutes reflect that: 
The AGO has proposed a Consent Judgment regarding compliance 
with public construction bidding law and procurement of goods and 
services, a draft of which was submitted for review by the Board. By 
conditions of probation from BESE, that agreement on those terms must 
be reached on or before November 24, 2010. Also within the form of the 
AGO consent judgment in a requirement for the amendment to the 
school's current lease for the building located at 2 Blackburn Center 
Gloucester, MA—due to the Attorney General's Office on or before 
November 20, 2010. Negotiations between the AGO and the school's 
counsel are ongoing and certain open items are still under discussion. 
It was the view of counsel that, per exception (3) to the open meeting 
laws, this was a discussion of strategy with respect to threatened and 
ongoing litigation and open discussion of these issues would have a 
detrimental effect on the litigating position of GCACS and the 
negotiations. Counsel made clear that litigation had been clearly and 
imminently threatened by the AGO in the absence of a settlement 
demonstrably likely. 
Id. 
On a motion from Ms. Ballin, the GCACS Board then voted by roll call to enter into 
executive session "in order to discuss legal strategy regarding the indicated Terms of Probation. 
Discussion of these issues with legal counsel in open session at [t]his time would be detrimental 
===PAGE 5===
to the Board's litigating and/or negotiating position." Id. The GCACS Board indicated it would 
reconvene following executive session. At 12:52 p.m., the GCACS Board reconvened. Ms. 
Bailin stated that the "Board is still in negotiations regarding the issues with the Attorney 
General's Office," and accordingly would decline to publicly discuss those issues. The GCACS 
Board meeting adjourned at 12:55 p.m.1  
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §20(b), states that "[e]xcept in an emergency...a 
public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. In an emergency, a public body shall post notice as soon 
as reasonably possible prior to such meeting." The statute defines an "emergency" as "a sudden, 
generally unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding immediate attention." G.L. 
c. 30A, §18. The Merriam-Webster Dictionary defines "sudden" as "happening or coming 
unexpectedly; made or brought about in a short time." 
Here, the GCACS Board failed to meet the 48 hour posting requirement. The meeting 
notice for the November 20, 2010 meeting was posted on Thursday, November 1 8th  at 10:21 a.m. 
The meeting was scheduled for 11:00 a.m. on Saturday, November 20th. However, because the 
Open Meeting Law excludes "Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays," a meeting notice for a 
meeting occurring on a Saturday must be posted by 11:59 p.m. on the preceding Wednesday to be 
considered adequately posted. The GCACS Board therefore missed the posting deadline when it 
posted the meeting at 10:21 a.m., ten hours after the deadline to post a Saturday meeting had 
passed. It should be noted that the GCACS Board acknowledges the same in its response when it 
states "[e]ven so, nearly 48 hours notice of the meeting was given." 
The Complainant asserts that it was with the knowledge that the November 20th  meeting 
posting was not posted in accordance with the statutory requirements that the GCACS Board 
nevertheless decided to convene an "emergency" meeting on November 20, 2010. In fact, the 
Complainant asserts that, given everything the GCACS Board knew at the time, its statement that 
an emergency meeting was necessary "to comply with certain requirements of its Board of 
Elementary and Secondary Education probation by November 20 and November 24, and...to 
consider actions regarding those requirements" was not only erroneous, but intentionally 
misleading. 
Where a public body has advance notice of circumstances that are likely to require 
deliberation, it is not an emergency. Emergency meetings are reserved for circumstances that are 
unanticipated and require an immediate response to, for example, protect public safety or health. 
Here, the facts overwhelmingly support the conclusion that the GCACS Board or its Counsel 
anticipated that some deliberation on the terms of the consent agreement under negotiation with 
the AGO was likely to occur at either, and possibly both, the November 19th  or the November 20th  
meetings. And, at least initially, the GCACS Board planned accordingly. 
First, a draft consent agreement was shared with Counsel for the GCACS Board on 
November 8, 2010. This draft included November 20, 2010 as the proposed date by which the 
GCACS Board was to have amended its lease. Although negotiations on the terms of the consent 
agreement did not resume until November 19, 2010, by virtue of the inclusion of the November 
20, 2010 date in the November 8th  draft, the Board was on notice that action may be required at 
1 We note that, a few months after this complaint was filed, the Board changed leadership and membership. 
===PAGE 6===
some point on or before November 20th• 
Second, the GCACS Board's own actions leading up to November 20, 2010 indicate that 
it was, in fact, on notice and anticipated that it would need to deliberate on the terms of the 
consent agreement. On November 17, 2010, the GCACS Board posted Meeting Notice 1, which 
informed the public of a GCACS Board meeting on Friday, November 19th. The Division 
received Meeting Notice 1 at 2:01 p.m. Accordingly, the GCACS Board had satisfied the 
requirement that the meeting notice be posted 48 hours in advance of the meeting, in accordance 
with G.L. c. 30A, §20(b). Meeting Notice 1 also included a listing of the topics to be discussed 
by the GCACS Board that were reasonably anticipated by the Chair at the time of the posting, as 
required by the OML. $ee G.L. c. 30A, §20(b) (Notice must "contain.., a listing of topics that 
the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting"). The third item on the notice 
was "Terms & Discussions. 1. By November 24, 2010, the GCACS must obtain approval by the 
Attorney General's Office (AGO) of a compliance plan addressing the school's violations of G.L. 
c. 149, §§44A-44M... such plan must address at a minimum...an amendment to the school's 
current lease..." 
Meeting Notice 2, which was posted on Thursday, November 18th  and informed the 
public of a GCACS Board meeting on Saturday, November 20th, listed, verbatim, the same 
agenda items as Meeting Notice 1, including consideration of "an amendment to the school's 
current lease." Moreover, our review of Meeting Notices 3, 4, and 5 show the exact same agenda 
items. In fact, Meeting Notice 4, which was posted at 11:54 a.m. on Thursday November 18th  and 
was one of the notices scheduling the November 20th  meeting, included the statement, "Please 
update the meeting notice for November 20 with this revised notice. The agenda is unchanged" 
(emphasis added). 
Finally, Meeting Notice 6, which informed the public of an emergency meeting 
scheduled for Saturday, November 20, 2010, included the same listing of topics that had been 
included in all previous notices. Considering that the definition of "emergency" included in the 
Open Meeting Law requires that the circumstances necessitating the meeting be unanticipated, 
the inclusion of the same topics over the course of six meeting notices suggests the GCACS 
Board clearly anticipated discussion of these topics. 
Third, we would be remiss if we did not consider that what transpired with regard to 
posting for an emergency meeting took place only days after the November 15th  training of the 
GCACS Board that was ordered and conducted by this office. During that training, our office 
discussed what constitutes an emergency meeting. As the GCACS Board's own minutes reflect, 
we stated that "emergency meetings are allowable, but must be necessary due to [a] sudden, 
generally unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding immediate action." GCACS 
Board Minutes, November 15, 2010. To illustrate, we referred to the example of a break in a 
water main as a situation that is likely to require an emergency meeting because of the 
unanticipated nature of the occurrence and its possible effect on public health. 
As explained above, the facts of this case are nothing like the example provided at the 
training. There was a pressing deadline, but that deadline was anticipated as early as November 
8, 2010, when the AGO forwarded its draft consent agreement to the GCAS Board. Indeed, the 
GCAS Board demonstrated its understanding that some action would be required when it initially 
scheduled the November 19, 2010 meeting. Simply put, these circumstances do not constitute a 
"sudden generally unexpected occurrence" permitting an emergency meeting under the Open 
Meeting Law. Nevertheless, because the Board's failure to timely post for the Saturday, 
November 20 meeting appears, at least in part, to have resulted from confusion about whether or 
===PAGE 7===
not the Friday, November 19 meeting (which was properly posted) was cancelled, we do not find 
an intentional violation. 
CONCLUSION 
As we have stated in previous determinations issued in response to complaints against the 
GCACS Board, the burden of justifying the need for an emergency meeting falls on the Board.2  
For the foregoing reasons we find that, in this instance, the Board failed to satisfy its burden. We 
note that, while there have been changes in the leadership and membership of the Board since 
these actions occurred, at the time this complaint was filed, the Board was not adequately 
attentive to its obligations under the Open Meeting Law.3  Therefore, we order the following: 
1. Immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25 
and the Open Meeting Law regulations, 940 CMR 29.00 et. seq.; 
2. Inclusion of the date and time meeting notices are posted on the face of the notice as 
required by 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b); 
3. Review by all GCACS Board members of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§18-25; the Open Meeting Law regulations, 940 CMR 29.00 et. seq.; and the 
Attorney General's Guide to the Open Meeting Law. 
4. Written certification by each individual GCACS Board Member that have received, 
read and agree to abide by the terms of this order. 
We consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
pending with the Board. Please contact me if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Britte McBride 
Assistant Attorney General 
cc: 	 Mr. Jason Grow 
Mr. Colin Zick, Counsel, GCACS Board 
2  See OML2010-6 Gloucester Community Arts Charter School Board of Trustees. 3  We continue to monitor the meeting notices posted by the Board. We caution that any future action by 
the Board that 1)suggests specific intent to violate the law; 2)reflects deliberate ignorance of the law's 
requirements or; 3) violates the law in a way that our previous orders have notified the Board is illegal, may 
be found to be an intentional violation. 