===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, M ASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 18, 2014 
OML 2014-102 
Thomas J. Harrington, Esq. 
Miyares and Harrington, LLP 
50 Leonard Street, Suite Three 
Belmont, MA 02478 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Harrington: 
This office received a complaint on July 7 from Jane Chrisfield, alleging that the Littleton 
Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The 
complaint alleges that the notices for the Board's March 10 and March 24 meetings did not 
include a sufficiently detailed statement of its purposes for entering executive session. 
Additionally, the complaint alleges that the Board failed to list agenda items with sufficient 
specificity in the notice for its April 28 meeting. Finally, the complaint alleges that the vote to 
approve the minutes of the Board's March 10 and March 24 meetings, taken during the Board's 
June 9 meeting, was improper because not all members of the Board were present at the June 9 
meeting. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 28 and a request for further 
review of this complaint was filed with our office on July 7. Counsel responded on behalf of the 
Board in a letter dated June 16. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We -j 
decline to review a portion of the complainant's allegations. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the complaint filed with the Board; the Board's response; and the complainant's 
request for further review. Additionally, we reviewed the agendas from the Board's February 10, 
March 10, March 24, and April 28 meetings and minutes from the Board's December 2, 2013, 
February 10, 2014, March 10, 2014, March 24, 2014 and April 28, 2014 meetings. Lastly, we 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
2 For the purpose of clarity, we will refer to you in third person hereafter. 
3 We decline to review the allegations regarding the Board's March 10 and March 24 meetings because they are 
untimely. Potential violations discovered after a complaint has been filed with a public body should be alleged in a 
subsequent complaint filed with that body. This allows the public body an opportunity to investigate and take 
appropriate remedial action with regard to the additional allegations. Additionally, we decline to review the 
allegations regarding the vote taken during the Board's June 9 meeting because these allegations were not raised in 
the initial complaint filed with the public body. 
1 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
reviewed the Board's executive session minutes from its March 10, 2014 and March 24, 2014 
meetings and a letter sent to our office by Ms. Chrisfield, dated July 30. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On December 2, 2013, the Board held an open meeting. 
During this meeting, the Board discussed Police Chief John Kelly's anticipated retirement on 
September 2. At that time. Board member Jenna Brownson stated that she was in favor of 
promoting the most qualified person from within the Police Department, and suggested that 
Deputy Police Chief Matthew King had already proven himself qualified. Matthew King was 
the only Deputy Police Chief employed by the Town at that time. Vice Chair James Karr then 
made a motion that the Board unanimously vote to fill the position of Chief of Police from 
within the department and schedule an interview with Deputy Police Chief King for Monday, 
February 10. The Board approved this motion by a vote. 
The topic "Deputy Police Chief interview preparations" appeared on the agenda for the 
Board's February 10 meeting. During that meeting, the Board noted that it had scheduled an 
interview with Deputy Police Chief King for the position of Chief of Police for Monday, 
February 24 and that Board members would forward suggested questions for the interview to the 
Town Administrator. 
The Board did not interview Deputy Police Chief King during its February 24 meeting 
and instead rescheduled the public interview for April 28. During its March 10 and March 24 
meetings, the Board entered into executive session to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
negotiations with nonunion personnel. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) ("Purpose 2"). During these 
executive sessions, the Board discussed amending Chief Kelly's contract with the Town to 
reflect a date that would coincide with the effective date of the Board's appointment of the 
Chiefs successor. Additionally, the Board voted to authorize the Town Administrator, Keith 
Bergman, and Town Counsel to continue negotiations with the Police Chief and finalize a 
proposed agreement on behalf of the Board. 
The agenda for the Board's April 28 meeting listed the following topics: "Deputy Police 
Chief Interview Preparation;" "Deputy Police Chief Interview;" and "Police Chief Transition." 
During the meeting, the Board met with Deputy Police Chief King and conducted a public 
interview for the position of Chief of Police. Deputy Chief King provided a summary of his 
professional background, training, and experience and the Board members took turns asking 
questions that had been compiled in the agenda packet. Upon completion of the interview, Mr. 
Bergman explained that Police Chief Kelly would be retiring on September 2 and his permanent 
successor could be appointed as of September 3. Furthermore, Mr. Bergman explained that the 
Chief would begin his "terminal leave" period prior to his retirement date and the Acting Chief 
of Police would be appointed during that period. When the terminal leave would begin was to be 
determined by an agreement between Chief Kelly and the Board. 
The Board members expressed their favorable opinions concerning the interview with 
Deputy Police Chief King and conveyed their readiness to proceed with appointing him as the 
2 
===PAGE 3===
next Chief of Police. Mr. Bergman explained that the purpose of the "Police Chief Transition" 
agenda item was to ensure a smooth transition from the outgoing to the incoming administration 
in the police department and that, after discussions with both Chief Kelly and Deputy Police 
Chief King, the proposed date for the transition would be May 2. 
Vice Chair Karr then motioned that the Board vote to execute a Mutual Agreement with 
Chief Kelly with terminal leave commencing on May 2. The Board unanimously voted to do so. 
Vice Chair Karr then motioned that the Board vote to appoint Deputy Police Chief King as 
Acting Chief of Police, effective May 2, and as the Chief of Police, effective September 3. The 
Board unanimously approved that motion. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to post notice 48 hours prior to a meeting 
and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies must list topics for discussion with "sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a reasonable member 
of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's 
discussion. OML 2014-42.4 Public bodies should include the names of relevant parties in 
meeting notices whenever possible. OML 2013-55. 
The complainant alleges that the phrasing of the agenda items "Deputy Police Chief 
Interview" and "Police Chief Transition" on the Board's notice for its April 28 meeting did not 
put the public on notice that the Board would be voting to hire the Deputy Police Chief as the 
new Police Chief and would terminate the current Chief of Police. The Board acknowledges that 
the agenda did not identify the position that the Board was seeking to fill, but contends that this 
information was reasonably inferable. We agree. The agenda could have been more clearly 
written but, taken together, the topics did sufficiently convey the nature of the anticipated 
discussion. One could easily infer from the topic "Police Chef Transition" that the Police Chief 
was departing, and that the interview occurring at the same meeting was related to filling that 
position. Further, while it may have been helpful to the public had the Board named the 
interview subject, the Town employs only one Deputy Police Chief. We therefore find that the 
notice sufficiently identified the interviewee. Finally, though the notice did not specify that the 
Board may take a vote to appoint a new Police Chief on that date, the discussion and vote that 
occurred naturally flowed from the Board's consideration of the two agenda items. See OML 
2014-58; OML 2014-44; OML 2014-38. Accordingly, we find no violation of the Open Meeting 
Law. See OML 2014-58; OML 2013-145; OML 2012-75. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found in the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Mark M. Higgins 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc; Littleton Board of Selectmen 
Jane Chrisfield 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 