===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 25, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 111 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Melissa Makepeace O’Neal  
Chair, Select Board  
Town of Shutesbury, Massachusetts  
1 Cooleyville Rd.  
Shutesbury, MA 01072  
 
Selectboard@shutesbury.org 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Makepeace O’Neal: 
 
This office received a complaint from Amanda Alix on January 15, 2026, alleging that 
the Shutesbury Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about December 3, 2025,
1 and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated December 4.  The complaint alleges that the 
Board failed to release executive session minutes in response to Amanda Alix’s request for 
same.2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the way 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, and the request for further review and attachments.  We also reviewed the 
complainant’s request for minutes, minutes of executive sessions the Board held on May 13 and 
May 15, and the “Minutes” page of the Shutesbury Town website.3  Finally, we communicated 
by telephone with Town Administrator Hayley Bolton and by email with Amanda Alix. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. On November 3, the complainant sent an email to Chair 
Melissa Makepeace-O’Neal, requesting “that the executive session minutes for the Select Board 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 As explained in further detail below, the Board released the minutes after it received the complaint.  
3 The minutes of the Shutesbury Select board can be found at https://www.mytowngovernment.org/01072. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
meetings of May 13, 2025, and May 15, 2025, be released to [her].”4  The following day, 
November 4, the Shutesbury Town Administrator responded to the request, stating that the 
requested executive session minutes had not yet been reviewed or approved, and that they would 
be made available upon their review and release by the Board.  During the course of our 
investigation, the Board clarified that the minutes of the May 13 and May 15 executive sessions 
had not yet been created as of the date of the Town Administrator’s response.  The Board 
reviewed and approved for release the two sets of minutes at a meeting held on December 9, and 
the Town Administrator provided them to the complainant on December 10. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body 
“create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a).  The Law requires that minutes of executive sessions be “review[ed]” “at 
reasonable intervals” to determine whether their continued nondisclosure, as permitted under 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f), is warranted.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1).  Although “reasonable interval” is 
not defined by the Open Meeting Law, our office has found a quarterly review or a review every 
six months to be appropriate.  See OML 2025-63; OML 2020-101; OML 2017-104.
5  A public 
body must respond to a request for executive session minutes within 10 days “and shall release 
any such minutes not covered by an exemption under subsection (f).”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). If, 
at the time of a request for executive session minutes, the public body has not performed the 
review required under section 22(g)(1), “the public body shall perform the review and release the 
non-exempt minutes, or any portion thereof, not later than the body’s next meeting or 30 days, 
whichever first occurs.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2).   
 
The Board did respond to the request by way of the Town Administrator’s November 4 
email, explaining that the minutes had not yet been reviewed or approved.  In fact, the minutes 
did not even exist as of the date of the Town Administrator’s email.  This is not the end of our 
inquiry, however.  Although a response was sent to the complainant within ten days, the minutes 
themselves were not reviewed until December 9 and were not released to the complainant until 
December 10, more than 30 days after the request.   
 
The minutes of the May 13 and May 15 executive sessions did not exist as of the 
November 3 request.  Therefore, at the time of the request, there were no minutes to review or 
release.  The Board should not benefit from its own delay in creating executive session minutes, 
however.  “The Law’s assumption that the executive session minutes exist at the time of request 
militates in favor of prompt creation of executive session minutes.”  See OML 2025-63.
6  By the 
time of the complainant’s request for minutes, almost six months had passed since the May 
 
4 For clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
6 The Open Meeting Law provides that “The minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether approved or in 
draft form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 days.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c) (emphasis 
added). The Open Meeting Law does not include similar language acknowledging that executive session minutes 
might not exist at the time of a request. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
executive sessions.  The minutes were not created until sometime after November 4, 
approximately six months after the meetings.7  Under the circumstances, the Board was under an 
obligation to review and release non-exempt minutes within the sooner of 30 days or the next 
meeting after the request.  As the Board waited until more than thirty days had passed to review 
and release the requested minutes, it violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Finally, we decline to review the allegation, first raised in the complainant’s request for 
review, that the May 13 and May 15 executive session minutes were insufficiently detailed.  We 
decline to review an allegation that was not included within the original complaint to the Board 
because the Board has not had an opportunity to respond to it.  See G.L. c. 30A, §23(b); see also 
OML 2026-6; OML Declination 8-06-25 (Middlefield Select Board); OML 2023-89.  Such an 
allegation would need to be raised in a separate complaint, first filed with the Board.  See G.L. c. 
30A, §23(b). 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it failed to review and release non-exempt executive session minutes within 30 days or the 
next meeting following the complainant’s request.  We order immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
Assisted by Ian Harvey, Legal Intern 
 
7 We attach significance to the delay of approximately six months.  The Law requires that open session minutes be 
created and approved within three meetings or 30 days.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 22(c).  No such timeline exists with 
respect to the creation of executive session minutes.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 22(g); see also Swansea Bd. of Selectmen 
v. Atty. General, 2023 WL 11051376 (Bristol Super. Ct. December 27, 2023).  Nonetheless, from the requirement to 
review executive session minutes at least every six months, it follows that minutes must be created at least every six 
months.  See OML 2025-63 (noting that “the Open Meeting Law requires that executive session minutes be created 
with such promptness as to allow for review at reasonable intervals”); see also Swansea Bd. of Selectmen, 2023 WL 
11051376 at *6 (“public bodies are still required to maintain accurate executive session minutes for periodic review 
and to respond to spontaneous requests to inspect the minutes pursuant to G. L. c. 30A, § 22(g)”).   
 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
cc: Amanda Alix (via email: ) 
Shutesbury Town Clerk (via email: towncl erk@shutesbury.org) 
Shutesbury Town Administrator (via email: townadmin@shutesbury.org) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
