===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 17, 2015 
OML 2015-137 
Benjamin cleRuyter, Chair 
Brewster Board of Selectmen 
2198 Main St. 
Brewster, MA 02631 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. deRuyter: 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty on July 30, alleging that the 
Brewster Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§18-
25.1 Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board failed to list "open session" in the notice 
for its July 6 meeting, and failed to provide sufficient detail for its executive session topics in the 
notice for that same meeting. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 8. The 
Board responded by letter dated July 27. 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law with 
respect to the allegation that the Board failed to list "open session" in the notice for its July 6 
meeting. The Board did, however, violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to provide sufficient 
detail as to the nature of one of its executive session topics in the notice for its July 6 meeting. 
However, we note that the Board acknowledged the violation in response to the complaint, 
discussed the violation in a subsequent meeting, and pledged to review the Attorney General's 
training video regarding meeting notices. We commend the Board's efforts and find this to be 
appropriate remedial action. 
As we have noted in prior determinations resolving complaints filed by Mr. Beaty, a 
public body does not need to list "open session" in its meeting notice, unless an executive 
session is the only topic for discussion. See OML 2015-110; OML 2015-105.2 Here, the notice 
included 19 open session topics, thus it was clear that an open session meeting would occur. The 
1 All dates refer to the year 2015. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
Board, therefore, did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to list open session as a 
distinct topic. 
One of the executive session topics in the notice for the Board's July 6 meeting was not 
entirely clear, however. This topic was listed as, "Executive Session - To Conduct Strategy in 
Preparation for Negotiation with Nonunion Personnel.'''' The Board acknowledges that the 
notice should have identified the specific nonunion personnel with whom it was negotiating, 
namely the Town Administrator. See OML 2013-195; OML 2013-140. The additional 
executive session topics listed in the notice were not discussed during the Board's July 6 
meeting, thus there is no need to consider their sufficiency. See OML 2015-113 (finding that 
where a public body does not actually engage in discussion of the noticed topic, the Open 
Meeting Law is not violated with respect to the sufficiency of the meeting notice). 
We find that the actions taken by the Board in response to the complaint constituted 
sufficient relief. We therefore order no additional remedial action. 
We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve 
any other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Board. Please feel free to 
contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ronald Beaty 
Sarah A. Turano-Flores, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
2 