===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
January 10, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 6 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq. 
KP Law  
gcorbo@k-plaw.com 
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on November 15, 2023,
1 alleging 
that the Carver Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about October 12, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated October 23.  The complaint contains several 
allegations pertaining to the notice for and conduct of the Board’s October 6 meeting. 
 
Following our review, we find a de minimis violation of the Open Meeting Law where 
the Board amended the notice for its October 6 meeting to add a topic six minutes after the 
posting deadline and discussed that topic during its meeting.  We find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law in any of the other ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed the original complaint filed with the Board, the Board’s response to the complaint, 
and the complainant’s request to our office for further review of the complaint.  In addition, we 
reviewed the original and amended notices for the October 6 meeting. 
 
First, we review several allegations regarding the sufficiency of t
 he notices that were 
posted for the Board’s October 6 meeting.  The Open Meeting Law requires that, “[e]xcept in an 
emergency, ... a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice 
must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and 
place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed.  Id.  The Open Meeting Law Regulations provide that “[t]he date and time that a 
meeting notice is posted shall be conspicuously recorded thereon or therewith.  If an amendment 
occurs within 48 hours of a meeting, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, then 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise noted. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
the date and time that the meeting notice is amended shall also be conspicuously recorded 
thereon or therewith.”  940 CMR 29.03(1)(d).  The date and time of posting may be listed either 
on the meeting notice itself or, when a meeting notice is posted to a website pursuant to 940 
CMR 29.03(2)(b), on the website next to the link to the meeting notice.  See OML 2019-102; 
OML 2018-53.2 
 
The complaint alleges that the notice for the Board’s October 6 meeting did not include 
the da
te and time that the notice was posted, and that an amended notice did not include both the 
date and time that the notice was originally posted as well as the date and time the amended 
notice was posted.  After review, we find that the municipal website where the Board posts its 
meeting notices clearly indicates that the initial notice for the Board’s October 6 meeting, to be 
held at 8:00 AM, was “SUBMITTED ON OCTOBER 3, 2023 - 5:02PM.”  We reject the 
complainant’s assertion that the word “submitted” does not indicate the notice was posted at that 
time.  We find that the date and time was conspicuously recorded along with the notice, as 
required by the Open Meeting Law Regulations, and reasonably conveyed that the notice was 
posted at the listed time.  The complaint also alleges that the amended notice for the Board’s 
October 6 meeting, which was posted less than 48 hours in advance of the meeting, did not 
include the date and time that the original notice had been posted.  We have explained that when 
an original notice is not removed, but remains posted along with the amended notice, the date 
and time of posting as indicated on or with the original notice satisfies the requirement of 
including that information on or with the amended notice.  See OML 2016-173.  Therefore, we 
find no violation of the Open Meeting Law in this regard.  
 
Nex
t, the complaint alleges that the Board amended the notice for its October 6 meeting 
less than 48 hours before the meeting to add a topic that was reasonably anticipated more than 48 
hours before the meeting.  Indeed, at 8:06 AM on October 4—47 hours and 54 minutes in 
advance of the October 6 meeting—the Board amended its meeting notice to add approval of 
minutes of three prior meetings.  The Board explains that it hurriedly scheduled and posted 
notice for the October 6 meeting late on October 3 to discuss and address an issue of public 
safety.  Then, after the October 6 meeting was scheduled, it was brought to the Chair’s attention 
that the October 6 meeting would be the Board’s third meeting following a prior meeting of the 
Board and therefore minutes would need to be approved.
3  A public body may amend a meeting 
notice within 48 hours of a meeting to add a previously unanticipated topic, but not to add a topic 
to the notice that was reasonably anticipated but inadvertently omitted from the notice.  See 940 
CMR 29.03(1)(d); OML 2020-29; OML 2011-11.  The Board correctly notes that when 
evaluating whether a particular topic was reasonably anticipated for discussion such that it 
needed to be included on a meeting notice posted 48 hours in advance of the meeting, we look to 
whether the topic was reasonably anticipated for discussion at the particular meeting at issue, not 
merely whether a chair was generally aware of the matter.  See OML 2020-53; OML 2019-26.  
At the same time, when the need to take action on a matter by a particular date is known, the 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
3 Indeed, the Open Meeting Law requires that a public body review and approve meeting minutes in a “timely 
manner,” which is defined as “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, 
unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.”  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); 940 CMR 29.11; OML 
2018-48.   
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
topic cannot be said not to have been “reasonably” anticipated, even if the chair did not actually 
think to include the topic.  To find otherwise would render meaningless the requirement that 
meeting notices include a list of the topics that are “reasonably” anticipated for discussion.  See 
OML 2023-148 (finding that approval of certain agreements during the last meeting of the year 
was a “reasonably” anticipated topic where the agreements needed to be approved by the end of 
the year as they had been each of the prior 15 years); OML 2021-201; OML 2021-146; 2021-
121.  Here, the timely approval of meeting minutes was a “reasonably” anticipated topic, and we 
are constrained to find that the Board committed a de minimis violation of the Open Meeting 
Law when it added approval of those meeting minutes to the notice for the October 6 meeting six 
minutes short of 48 hours in advance of the meeting.   
 
Turni
ng to the October 6 meeting itself, the complaint alleges that the Board’s Chair did 
not announce that the meeting was being recorded; the complainant asserts the Chair must 
specifically use the word “recorded” to comply with the Open Meeting Law.  The Open Meeting 
Law states, “[a]fter notifying the chair of the public body, any person may make a video or audio 
recording of an open session of a meeting of a public body, or may transmit the meeting through 
any medium, subject to reasonable requirements of the chair as to the number, placement and 
operation of equipment used so as not to interfere with the conduct of the meeting.  At the 
beginning of the meeting, the chair shall inform other attendees of any recordings.”  G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(f).  At the start of the Board’s October 6 meeting, the Chair announced “this meeting is 
being cablecast by Area 58 Community Access Media Channel 15 and will be posted by Area 58 
on YouTube as soon as possible.”  This statement clearly informed attendees that the meeting 
was being recorded; any assertion to the contrary is not made in good faith. 
 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the Board called its October 6 meeting an “emergency” 
but that the subject matters discussed did not constitute an emergency, as defined by the Open 
Meeting Law.  The primary topic for discussion at as listed on the meeting notice was “King 
Richard’s Faire – Emergency hearing to hear complaints about traffic, parking and overcrowding 
conditions and determine whether to modify, suspend or revoke common victualler and alcoholic 
beverage licenses, votes may be taken.”  The Open Meeting Law requires that, “[e]xcept in an 
emergency, in addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice 
of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to the meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays.  In an emergency, a public body shall post notice as soon as reasonably possible prior 
to the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  An “emergency” is defined as “a sudden, generally 
unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding immediate action.”  G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 18.  Here, we need not review whether the matters discussed during the Board’s October 6 
meeting constituted an “emergency” as defined by the Open Meeting Law because the Board 
posted notice for its October 6 meeting more than 48 hours in advance of the meeting and was 
not relying on the Open Meeting Law’s “emergency” exception to the 48-hour notice posting 
requirement.   
 
For the reasons stated above, we find a de minimis violation of the Open Meeting Law 
where the Board added a reasonably anticipated topic to the notice for its October 6 meeting six 
minutes after the notice posting deadline.  We find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law in any of the other ways alleged.  We order the Board’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Carver Select Board (via email: mark.townsend@carverma.gov) 
 Carver Town Clerk (via email: town.clerk@carverma.org) 
Patrick Higgins (via email: )  
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
