===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 15, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 166 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
J. Raymond Miyares, Esq. 
Reading Town Counsel 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Attorney Miyares: 
This office received a complaint on July 21, 2020,1 from Alicia Williams alleging that the 
Reading Select Board (the “Board”), and in particular, Board member Karen Gately Herrick, 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with 
the Board on June 26, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated July 8.  
 
The complaint alleges that during the Board’s May 27 meeting held via Zoom, Ms. 
Gately Herrick “was seen on the call using a cell phone/messaging system. She was clearly using 
text messaging to communicate during the select[] board meeting. The documents/messages Ms. 
Herrick was clearly referencing back and forth . . . in her conversation . . ., [were] not made 
public.” The Complainant requested that the Board “release . . . the documents/messages or cell 
phone records with the numbers of [those with whom Ms. Gately Herrick was communicating 
during the meeting,] specifically from 9:00-9:40 . . ..” In the request for further review, the 
Complainant clarified that her complaint alleged that Ms. Gately Herrick’s communications 
constituted documents used at a meeting and that the Complainant was requesting those 
documents.    
 
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
and find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this 
 
1 All dates are in 2020, unless otherwise stated. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request 
for further review, and the video recording of the Board’s May 27 meeting.2    
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that the minutes of a meeting include “a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Additionally, the Open 
Meeting Law provides that “[d]ocuments and other exhibits, such as photographs, recordings or 
maps, used by the body at an open or executive session shall, along with the minutes, be part of 
the official record of the session.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(d). Finally, the Law states that, aside from a 
few exceptions not relevant here, “all documents and exhibits used at [an open] session, shall be 
public records in their entirety and not exempt from disclosure pursuant to any of the exemptions 
under clause Twenty-sixth of section 7 of chapter 4.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e).   
 
The Open Meeting Law does not define what it means for a document to be “used” at a 
meeting. We have found that a document is “used” at a meeting when it is, at a minimum, 
physically present, verbally identified, and its contents are discussed by members of the public 
body. See OML 2014-146; OML 2019-57; OML 2012-42.3 After review of the video recording 
of the Board’s May 27 meeting, we find that, to the extent that Board member Gately Herrick 
may have received and viewed emails, text messages, or other documents on her device during 
the meeting, those items do not constitute documents or exhibits “used” at the meeting for 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, as they were not verbally identified nor their contents 
discussed.4 Therefore, we find the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2018-
116; OML 2012-59. 
 
To the extent that the Complainant alleges that the communications received by Ms. 
Gately Herrick are public records subject to disclosure under the Public Records Law, we decline 
to review such allegation as the Division of Open Government enforces and interprets the Open 
Meeting Law only. See OML 2013-106; OML 2020-69. We refer the Complainant to the 
Supervisor of Records in the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s Public Records Division for 
guidance concerning the Public Records Law. 
     
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 The recording of the Board’s May 27 meeting can be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FXr6Z33Hy2M&list=PLkibnMpzKYxtQFmCkaHeszeXuwuTk98h9&index=1. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 In its response, the Board explains that “the text messages that Select Board member Gately Herrick sent and 
received during the meeting were personal in nature. Ms. Gately Herrick neither circulated the messages amongst a 
quorum of the public body, nor did the text messages pertain to Town business.” 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
 
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Mark Dockser, Chair, Reading Select Board (via e-mail: 
 
Alicia Williams (via e-mail:  
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
