===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
September 14, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 122 
 
 
Bruce A. Assad, Esq. 
16 Bedford Street, Suite 3A 
P.O. Box 1268 
Fall River, MA 02722 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Assad: 
 
This office received a complaint from Collin Dias on June 9, 2021, alleging that the Fall 
River School Committee Evaluation/AIP Subcommittee (the “ Subcommittee”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the  
Subcommittee on March 24, and you responded, on behalf of the Subcommittee, by letter dated 
April 20, following an extension of time granted by this office.  In his complaint, Mr. Diaz 
alleges that a quorum of the Subcommittee discussed the Superintendent’s evaluation outside of 
a properly posted meeting.   
Following our review, we find that the Subcommittee did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the  
Subcommittee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting  
further review.  In addition, we reviewed the notice and video recording of the Fall River School 
Committee meeting held on March 8.2  Finally, we spoke with you via telephone on August 12 
and September 1, and with Subcommittee Chair Mimi Larrivee on September 1. 
FACTS 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 
2 A video recording of the School Committee meeting held on March 8 is available here: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LoOpYVkK_9w. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Subcommittee is a three-member public body; thus two 
members constitute a quorum.  The Subcommittee is a subcommittee of the School Committee 
and all members of the Subcommittee are also members of the School Committee.  The School 
Committee is a seven-member public body.   
As part of the School Committee’s annual evaluation of the Superintendent, the 
Subcommittee distributed to all School Committee members an evaluation form that was 
comprised of four parts: (1) assessing the Superintendent’s progress towards goals, (2) assessing 
the Superintendent on instructional leadership, management and operations, community 
engagement and professional culture, (3) rating the Superintendent’s overall performance, and 
(4) evaluator comments.3  The first three parts of the evaluation each contained multiple sections; 
each section contained a rating scale of either one (did not meet) to five (exceeded) or one 
(unsatisfactory) to four (exemplary); and the School Committee members checked the box that 
most accurately reflected the level of performance exhibited by the Superintendent.   
 
Each School Committee member completed and sent an evaluation form to School 
Committee Secretary Debra Cabral who then forwarded the forms to Mimi Larrivee, Chair of the 
Subcommittee, for numerical compilation.  Because Ms. Larrivee was a new member of both the 
Subcommittee and School Committee, Subcommittee member Joshua Hetzler offered to show 
Ms. Larrivee the mathematical rubric that he had used in prior years to tabulate the scores from 
the first three parts of the evaluation forms.  Ms. Larrivee and Mr. Hetzler met and tallied the 
scores from each section of the evaluation form but did not discuss the evaluations.  The 
individual comments submitted by each School Committee member were only compiled by Ms. 
Larrivee.   
 
During a meeting of the School Committee held on March 8, Ms. Larrivee presented the 
evaluation of the Superintendent for the 2019-2020 school year.  She reviewed each section on 
the evaluation form and provided the tabulated results.  Several School Committee members 
expressed their opinions on the Superintendent’s performance and read some of the specific 
comments they wrote on the evaluation form.  The School Committee then unanimously 
approved a motion to accept the evaluation. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law is designed to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
the deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as 
“a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.” G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the  
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
 
3 The evaluation form was created by the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  For the purposes of the 
Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.   
 
The complaint alleges that a quorum of  the Subcommittee discussed the 
Superintendent’s evaluation outside of a properly posted meeting.  The Subcommittee contends 
that Mr. Hetzler merely provided clerical support to Ms. Larrivee and they did not otherwise 
discuss the evaluation forms; we find no evidence to the contrary.  Deliberation regarding 
performance evaluations and discussions of an employee’s professional competence must occur 
in open session.  See OML 2021-45; OML 2018-38; District Attorney for the Northern District 
v. School Committee of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 569 (2009).4  Here, the School Committee 
discussed the Superintendent’s evaluation during an open meeting held on March 8.  During that 
meeting, Ms. Larrivee summarized the results of the tabulated evaluations and School 
Committee members provided their thoughts and opinions on the overall performance of the 
Superintendent.  Moreover, this composite evaluation was not otherwise shared with the School 
Committee until the March 8 meeting.  Cf. Boelter v. Board of Selectmen of Wayland, 479 
Mass. 233, 243 (2018) (distribution of an aggregated employment review in advance of an open 
meeting violated the Open Meeting Law because it communicated the opinions of board 
members to a quorum of the board).     
 
We recognize that Ms. Larrivee and Mr. Hetzler, two members of the Subcommittee and 
thus a quorum, worked together to aggregate the scores from the evaluation forms.  However, we 
find that Ms. Larrivee and Mr. Hetzler merely performed a mathematical computation using the 
submitted scores and did not otherwise discuss the individual evaluations.  We find that this 
purely administrative task did not constitute improper deliberation, and the Subcommittee did 
not violate  the Open Meeting Law.  See, e.g. OML 2021-112 (finding email sent to a quorum of 
a public body to be administrative in nature where it asked a question in response to information 
provided by the Executive Director and did not contain any opinion); OML 2013-160 (act of 
signing certification form outside of a meeting is not itself improper deliberation but 
administrative task); OML 2013-130 (finding no violation where Chair emailed Superintendent, 
copying other Board members to keep them informed, because the Chair’s communication was 
directed to the Superintendent, not the Board members, and was only meant to collect factual 
information, not to convey an opinion to the Board). 
 
We take this opportunity to remind the Board that members of a public body may 
individually create evaluations, and then submit them to an individual to aggregate into a master 
evaluation document to be discussed at an open meeting.  Ideally, members of the public body 
should submit their evaluations for compilation to someone who is not a member of the public 
body, for example, an administrative assistant.  If this is not a practical option, then the chair or 
other designated public body member may compile the evaluations.  However, once the 
individual evaluations are submitted for aggregation there should be no deliberation among 
members of the public body regarding the content of the evaluations outside of an open meeting, 
whether in person or over email.    
 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Subcommittee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Subcommittee.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
Kerry Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by Nicholas Papazyan, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Collin Dias – By email only:  
 Fall River School Committee – By email only:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
