===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/aBo 
May 19, 2017 
OML 2017-83 
Marielise Kelly, Esq. 
Gargiulo/Rudnick, LLP 
766 Falmouth Road, Unit A-6 
Mashpee, MA 02649 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Kelly: 
This office received a complaint from Amy Kates, dated January 25, 2017, 
alleging that the Cotuit Board of Fire Commissioners Union Negotiating Committee (the 
"Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint 
was originally filed with the Committee on January 8, 2017 and you responded, on behalf 
of the Committee, by letters dated January 18, 2017 and February 8, 2017.1 Specifically, 
the complaint alleges that the Committee's December 20 meeting was not accessible to 
the public and that the Committee did not allow public participation at that meeting,2 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law because the building where the December 20 meeting was held was locked. 
However, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by limiting 
public participation. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, 
the Committee's responses to the complaints, the complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review, and the notices of the Committee's December 20 meeting. We 
also spoke by telephone with Committee members Frances Parks, Richard Pisano, and 
Kevin Conley on April 19, 2017, April 21, 2017 and May 9, 2017, respectively. Finally, 
we spoke with you by telephone on February 23, 2017, March 21, 2017 and April 18, 
2017. 
1 The original complaint that was filed with the Committee on January 8, 2017 by Ms. Kates was not signed 
or dated. Ms. Kates then filed a second, identical complaint with the Committee around January 24, 2017 
that was signed and dated. The Committee responded to both complaints. 
2 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On December 12, the Committee posted notice with 
the Town Clerk for a meeting to be held on Tuesday, December 20 at 6:00 P.M. in 
Freedom Hall. The notice stated that the "Committee will convene in open session and 
go immediately into Executive Session for the purpose of collective bargaining with the 
Cotuit Fire Fighters Union that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining position of the public body. The committee will not return to open session." 
On December 14, the Committee posted a revised notice with the Town Clerk for the 
December 20 meeting. The date, time and place of the meeting remained the same. 
However, the topics listed on this notice were: Call to Order, Public Comment, and 
Union Negotiations. The notice also indicated that the Committee may go into executive 
session to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with the Cotuit Fire 
Fighters Union, that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the Committee's 
bargaining position, and that the Committee would not return to open session. On 
December 16, the Committee posted a second revised notice for the December 20 
meeting. The topics listed on this notice were: Call to Order, No Public Comment, and 
Union Negotiations. Once again, the notice indicated that the Committee may go into 
executive session to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with the Cotuit 
Fire Fighters Union, that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
Committee's bargaining position, and that the Committee would not return to open 
session. 
Freedom Hall is a historic building that is used for local meetings, entertainment 
and voting. The building remains locked unless a function or meeting is scheduled; no 
municipal departments have offices in the building. 
The Committee's December 20 meeting was held as planned. A few minutes 
before the meeting began, Ms. Kates arrived at Freedom Hall but could not enter the 
building as the door was locked. She knocked on a window and someone inside the 
building opened the door letting her into the meeting, which had not yet begun.3 The 
Committee convened in open session and then immediately moved to enter into executive 
session for the purpose of collective bargaining. The Committee did not allow the public 
an opportunity to address the Committee. 
Mr. Pisano recalls entering the building on December 20 with Ms. Parks who has 
a key to Freedom Hall. Neither Ms. Parks nor Mr. Conley recall how they entered the 
building that evening or whether the door was locked when they entered. In addition, 
Ms. Parks and Mr. Pisano do not recall hearing anyone knocking on a door or window. 
Mr. Conley does remember hearing a knock on the door and that someone inside the 
meeting room got up and opened the door. 
3 The complaint notes that another individual arrived prior to Ms. Kates and also found the front door of 
Freedom Hall locked. Apparently, this individual followed the Fire Chief into the building after the Chief 
knocked on a window and was subsequently let into the building. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted 
in an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 20(a), 21(a). In order for a 
meeting to be truly "open to the public," the meeting venue must be accessible to the 
public for the duration of the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). Here, the public was 
unable to gain access to the meeting location where the door to Freedom Hall was locked, 
thus the meeting was not "open" and the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
See OML 2014-118; OML 2012-46.4 We do not believe the Committee intentionally 
excluded Ms. Kates or any other member of the public, however. In fact, Ms. Kates did 
gain access to the building prior to the Committee convening the meeting. 
The complaint also alleges that the Committee did not allow for public 
participation at the December 20 meeting. The Open Meeting Law states that "no person 
shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons 
shall, at the request of the chair, be silent." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). The Open Meeting Law 
therefore gives discretion to the chair of a public body to determine who may speak or 
otherwise participate at a meeting. See OML 2014-23; OML 2013-64; OML 2012-59. 
The notice posted by the Committee on December 14 listed Public Comment as a topic. 
However, the revised notice posted on December 16, which was properly posted at least 
48 hours prior to the December 20 meeting, indicated that there would be no public 
comment. It is within the chair's discretion to limit public participation during a meeting, 
and thus he did not violate the Open Meeting Law by doing so here. However, we 
encourage public bodies to allow public participation during meetings whenever possible. 
See OML 2015-12; OML 2014-129; OML 2012-59. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to ensure that all open session portions of its December 20 
meeting were accessible to the public. We find that the Committee did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law where it did not allow public participation. We order the 
Committee's immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and caution 
the Committee that a similar, future violation may be considered evidence of intent to 
violate the law. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass. gov/ ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Sincerely, 
KerryAme Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
ec: Amy McGuire Kates 
Cotuit Board of Fire Commissioners Union Negotiating Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt 
of a final order. 
4 