===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 13, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 84 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Thomas A. Mullen, Esq. 
Law Offices of Thomas A. Mullen, P.C. 
tmullen@thomasamullenpc.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Mullen: 
 
This office received a complaint from Julie Scott on November 17, 2025,
1 alleging that 
the Wakefield Economic Development Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about 
September 17, and you responded on behalf of the Council by letter dated October 7. We 
understand the complaint to allege that: 1) the Council violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
held a meeting without a quorum of members present, 2) the Council may have deliberated 
outside of a meeting, and 3) the Council’s meeting minutes fail to list the documents used at 
meetings.2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
meeting without a quorum or by deliberating outside of a noticed meeting. We decline to review 
whether the Council has failed to list in its meeting minutes documents used at meetings where 
this allegation lacks sufficient specificity. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open 
Meeting Law complaint, the Council’s response, the request for further review, and the notice for 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The complaint raises additional concerns and asks various questions regarding the scope of the Council’s authority, 
conflicts of interest, compliance with the Town’s volunteer handbook, the sufficiency of materials provided to the 
Council, and the process for expending or authorizing funds under the American Rescue Plan Act. It is not clear 
whether any of these additional concerns and questions are intended as allegations. To the extent they are, we 
decline to review them where they do not clearly and sufficiently allege violations of the Open Meeting Law. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
the Council’s August 20 meeting. We also reviewed a video recording of the August 20 
meeting.3 Finally, we communicated with Attorney Mullen via email.4 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Council is a nine-member public body; therefore, 
five members constitute a quorum.
5 The Council properly posted notice for a meeting to be held 
on August 20 at 6:00 P.M. The notice listed the meeting location as the Public Safety Building 
located at 1 Union Street and also included a link to access the meeting remotely via Zoom.6 On 
August 20 around 6:06 P.M., the Council called the meeting to order. Three voting members of 
the Council attended the meeting, Chair Julianne Orsino, Co-Chair Christopher Barrett, and 
Annie Silva. Two Town Council liaisons, Stacey Costas and Doug Butler, also attended the 
meeting as non-voting members. At the beginning of the meeting, Chair Orsino stated that the 
Council could not vote on anything that evening because a quorum was not present. Although 
there was no quorum present, the Council chose to proceed with the meeting and discussed 
various matters, including American Rescue Plan Act funds. 
 
The Council video recorded the meeting and posted the video of the meeting online. At 
some point thereafter, Councilor Ally Houghton watched the video recording of the meeting. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law by meeting without a 
quorum. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that all deliberations of a 
public body occur during a properly noticed meeting that, unless properly convened in a lawful 
executive session, is open to the public. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20. The Open Meeting Law defines 
“meeting” as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s 
jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. It further defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id. Finally, the Law defines 
“quorum” as “a simple majority of the members of the public body, unless otherwise provided in 
a general or special law, executive order or other authorizing provision.” Id.  
 
 
3 A video recording of the Council’s August 20 meeting was accessed at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V k5sgb96Ws .  
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
5 At the time of the August 20 meeting there was one vacancy on the Council. However, when there is a vacancy on 
a public body, a quorum is still measured by the number of members of the public body as constituted. See Gamache 
v. Town of Acushnet, 14 Mass. App. Ct. 215, 219 (1982) (noting that a Town bylaw established a board of appeals 
of five members, and a temporary vacancy did not alter that bylaw). 
6 Although, as discussed below, we find that there was no meeting as that term is defined in the Open Meeting Law, 
for clarity we refer to the August 20 discussion as a “meeting” throughout this determination.    
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The complaint alleges that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by holding a 
meeting on August 20 without a quorum present. We find that it did not. As explained above, the 
Open Meeting Law governs the deliberations and meetings of public bodies, imposing various 
requirements when a quorum of a public body communicates regarding matters within the 
body’s jurisdiction. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20, 21, 22. Here, because a quorum of the Council 
was not present on August 20, the Council did not deliberate, as that term is defined in the Open 
Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. As such, there was no meeting requiring compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2015-125; OML 2014-93; OML 2013-169; 
OML 2013-169; OML 2013-106.7,8  
 
II. We find that the Council did not deliberate outside of a posted meeting. 
 
As explained above, all deliberations of a public body must occur during a properly 
noticed meeting that is open to the public, unless a lawful executive session has been properly 
convened.  
 
We understand the complaint to allege that the Council improperly deliberated outside of 
a noticed meeting. In support of this allegation the complaint asserts that: 1) the Council must 
have improperly deliberated about whether to move forward with the meeting during the five 
minutes before the August 20 meeting was called to order; 2) the Council must have deliberated 
outside of a meeting because, in the Complainant’s estimation, the meeting materials did not 
provide sufficient information, yet the Council held detailed discussions on August 20; and 3) 
posting a video of the August 20 meeting online could lead to improper deliberation via serial 
communication.  
 
Mere speculation or conjecture regarding deliberation outside of a posted meeting, 
without factual support, is insufficient to support a complainant’s allegations. See, e.g., OML 
2024-208 (finding an assertion that a committee’s office hours could have led to improper 
deliberation, without evidence that they did, insufficient to support the complaints allegations of 
improper deliberation); OML 2012-59; OML 2014-114; OML 2023-242; OML 2024-14; OML 
2024-187.
9 The Complainant offers no evidence beyond mere speculation and conjecture to 
support the allegation that the Council deliberated outside of a posted meeting. Indeed, as noted 
above, communication between or among less than a quorum of a public body does not 
constitute deliberation; therefore, any discussion that occurred immediately prior to the August 
20 meeting being called to order could not have constituted deliberation where it occurred 
between less than a quorum. Likewise, the only evidence before us suggests that no deliberation 
occurred when the Council posted a video of the August 20 meeting online where there were 
 
7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
8 The complaint asserts various facts about how the August 20 meeting was run, for example that attendance was not 
taken, that two attendees were not visible on camera, and that names were not announced. To the extent these were 
intended as additional allegations, we need not address them where, for the reasons explained above, there was no 
meeting subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
9 We also note that it does not violate the Open Meeting Law for individual public body members to review relevant 
materials, become informed of the issues, and even form opinions outside of a meeting. See OML 2017-93; OML 
2022-231; OML 2024-208. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
only three members present at the meeting and one additional member viewed the video 
recording.  
 
III. We decline to review the allegation that the Council’s minutes, in general, fail to list 
documents used during a meeting. 
 
Open Meeting Law complaints must allege violations with a degree of specificity, as our 
office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations. See OML 
2021-133; OML Declination 7-19-2023 (Fairhaven Historical Commission; OML Declination 3-
20-12 (Wilmington Board of Assessors). The complaint alleges that, in general, “[m]eeting 
minutes of meetings of the [Council] do not contain required lists of materials and documents 
used at meetings.” The complaint then makes reference to meetings held in 2024 and 2025 and 
links to the Council’s online agenda center. The complaint does not identify any particular set of 
meeting minutes alleged to be deficient in this way, nor any particular documents alleged to have 
been used at a meeting but not listed in the minutes.10 Our office has consistently declined to 
conduct broad audits of public bodies to determine whether, in general, a public body has 
complied with the Open Meeting Law. See, e.g. OML 2024-25; OML 2022-111; OML 
Declination 6-18-2025 (Northborough Housing Authority Board of Commissioners); OML 
Declination 4-13-2020 (Town of Plymouth); OML 2018-121; OML 2014-82; OML Declination 
3-12-2012 (Cohasset Board of Selectmen). We find the allegation here insufficiently specific and 
we therefore decline to review it. 
 
Although we do not review this allegation, we take this opportunity to remind the 
Council that the Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes include, among other things, a 
list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The Open Meeting 
Law does not define what it means for a document to be used at a meeting, but at a minimum, it 
is clear that where a document is physically present, verbally identified, and the contents are 
discussed by the members of a public body during a meeting, the document has been “used” for 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-12; OML 2012-42. We further clarify that it 
is insufficient to simply reference or link to the documents throughout the minutes; the minutes 
must contain “a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting.” See G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(a); OML 2024-148; OML 2019-29; OML 2018-70. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by holding a meeting without a quorum or by improperly deliberating outside of a meeting. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
 
 
 
10 To the extent the complaint alleges that the minutes of the August 20 meeting do not list the documents used, for 
the reasons explained above, the August 20 meeting was not a meeting subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
 
Sincerely, 
       
      Natalie Reyes, Paralegal 
      Elizabeth Carnes Flynn, Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Wakefield Economic Development Council (via email: edc@wakefieldma.gov)  
Betsy Sheeran, Wakefield Town Clerk (via email: bsheeran@wakefieldma.gov) 
Julie Scott (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
