===PAGE 1===
 THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
1 
 
June 18, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 73 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Karen Nober, Esq. 
Town Attorney, Town of Barnstable 
367 Main Street 
Hyannis, MA 02601 
Karen.Nober@town.barnstable.ma.us 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Nober: 
This office received a complaint from David Bogan on August 26, 2019,1 alleging that 
the Barnstable Town Council Subcommittee to Review Zoning and Permitting Regulations (the 
“Subcommittee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Subcommittee on July 18, and your predecessor, Attorney Ruth Weil, 
responded on behalf of the Subcommittee by letter dated August 23. The complaint alleges that 
the Subcommittee, or another public body appointed by the Town Council, held meetings 
without posting notice; that the Subcommittee failed to post meeting minutes to its website; and 
that the notice for a May 2 meeting of the Subcommittee was not properly posted.2  
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  We now resolve 
this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the 
Subcommittee did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 
 
1 Hereinafter, all dates are in 2019, unless otherwise stated.  
2 The Complainant’s request for further review includes additional assertions regarding the validity of the 2017 
creation of the ad hoc zoning subcommittee.  Our office does not conduct broad audits of public bodies and will seek 
to address only allegations made in the Open Meeting Law complaint in order to give a public body a chance to 
address those allegations.  See OML 2019-85; OML Declination 4-22-15 (Natick Economic Development 
Committee).  In any event, a complaint about such actions, apparently taken during an open session meeting in 
February 2017, would be untimely.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
  
The complaint alleges that the Town of Barnstable’s Planning Director indicated on 
multiple occasions in early- and mid-2019 that a steering committee on short-term rentals would 
be created, consisting of members of several public bodies as well as representatives of the 
commercial real estate community, but that the steering committee never posted notice of any 
meetings.  The Subcommittee responds that despite those remarks from the Planning Director, 
and subsequent references in public communications to a “steering committee,” no such steering 
committee was ever created.  Instead, the Subcommittee, which was a standing subcommittee of 
the Town Council, held several meetings to discuss and make recommendations regarding short-
term rentals.  Indeed, subsequent references to meetings of the “steering committee” align 
exactly with posted meetings of the Subcommittee.  The minutes of those meetings are quite 
detailed, and demonstrate that the Subcommittee itself - without any input from or reference to a 
separate steering committee - reviewed and made recommendations regarding short-term rentals.  
We find no evidence that a separate steering committee existed. 
Next, we review whether the Subcommittee properly posted notice of its meetings.  In 
particular, the Complainant alleges that the Subcommittee failed to properly post notice of a May 
2 meeting, because the notice was only posted under the “Official Agendas - Open Meeting Law 
Notices” link on the Town’s website homepage, rather than on the Subcommittee’s own 
webpage.  The Complainant alleges that the Subcommittee usually posts its meeting notices on 
its own page, so the omission of the May 2 meeting notice gave the impression that no meetings 
were scheduled, and that only after the complaint was filed did the Subcommittee add the May 2 
meeting notice to its own webpage. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of every meeting at 
least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b).  The notice must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the 
date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed.  Id.  Under the Open Meeting Law, the default notice posting 
location for a local public body is a location “conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or 
on the municipal building in which the clerk's office is located.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c); 940 CMR 
29.03(2)(a).  The Law allows for alternative methods of posting meeting notices as prescribed by 
the Attorney General. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c).  The Attorney General's Open Meeting Law 
regulations allow the Chief Executive Officer of a municipality to adopt the municipality’s 
website as the official posting location for meeting notices.  See 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b).  If a 
municipality adopts its municipal website as the official method of notice posting, that website 
should include a page where all public body meeting notices can be located in order that 
members of the public can easily access notices.  See 940 C.M.R. 29.03(2)(b); OML 2018-
53.3  To avoid confusion and the potential for differing versions of notices, our office 
discourages the posting of notices in multiple locations, unless they are linked to the same page.   
The Town of Barnstable has adopted its municipal website as the official method of 
posting notice for all public bodies within the Town.  Meetings notices are posted on a single 
page linked from the municipal website’s homepage.  We have verified that the notice of the 
May 2 Subcommittee meeting was posted under the “Official Agendas - Open Meeting Law 
Notices” link on the Town’s homepage, and that the notice was posted at approximately 3:34 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
  
p.m. on April 30, which was at least 48 hours in advance of the meeting.  Although we 
acknowledge the departure from the Subcommittee’s usual practice of posting its meeting notices 
on its own webpage in addition to the “Official Agendas” page linked from the homepage, we 
find that where the notice was timely posted to the page on the Town’s website where all 
meeting notices are posted, the Subcommittee satisfied the posting requirements of the Open 
Meeting Law.   
Finally, we address the Complainant’s assertion that the Subcommittee did not post 
minutes of any of its meetings held between July 2018 and February 2019 to its webpage.  The 
Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to “post” minutes anywhere. See OML 2017-
30, Fn. 1.4  Rather, the Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to make the minutes available 
upon request.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  Therefore, the Subcommittee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to post its meeting minutes to a website. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Subcommittee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: David Bogan, Esq. (via e -mail: ) 
Barnstable Town Council Subcommittee to Review Zoning and Permitting Regulations 
(via e-mail: cynthia.lovell@town.barnstable.ma.us) 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
4 We note that the Secretary of the Commonwealth requires municipal public records officers, to the extent possible, 
to post commonly requested documents, such as meeting minutes, to a municipal website. 950 CMR 32.04(5)(g).  
For guidance on the requirements of the Public Records Law, public bodies should contact the Supervisor of 
Records within the Office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth. 
