===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON. MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 13, 2016 
OML 2016-174 
Andrew Reck 
Chair, Wayland Planning Board 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Reck: 
This office received a complaint from Linda Segal on October 17, alleging that the 
Wayland Planning Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about September 12, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated October 6.2 The complaint alleges that 
during its August 22 meeting, the Board discussed a topic that was not listed on the meeting 
notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
way alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. 
We also reviewed the notices, minutes and portions of video recordings from the Board's 
August 22 and October 4 meetings.3 Finally, we spoke with Town Planner Sarkis Sarkisian 
on December 7. 
We find the facts as follows. On August 22, the Board convened a meeting, in part, to 
hold a public hearing on five amendments to the zoning bylaw that were proposed for a 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 Because the Board did not request an extension of time to respond, its response should have been sent by 
September 30. We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that, within 14 business days after 
receiving a complaint, the public body shall review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if 
appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action 
taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
3Available at http://www.waycam.tv/buzz. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
Special Town Meeting scheduled for November 15. These amendments were listed on the 
meeting notice, originally posted on August 3 and later revised on August 17. At the start of 
the meeting, the Town Planner distributed a packet of materials to the Board and the audience. 
Included in this packet was a draft Board report about the five proposed zoning bylaw 
amendments, as indicated on the notice. The packet also included a draft warrant article to 
accept four streets as Town ways, which was not listed as a topic on the notice. Following the 
hearing on the zoning bylaw amendments, the Town Planner asked the Board to consider this 
warrant article. At the start of this discussion, one Board member asked whether this topic 
was listed on the notice, to which the Town Planner replied, incorrectly, that it was on the 
notice. The Board then discussed and approved the warrant article. 
In response to this complaint, during its October 4 meeting, the Board acknowledged 
its error in discussing the warrant article because it was not, in fact, listed on the notice. 
Additionally, on September 19, the Board voted to withdraw the article from the November 
15 warrant, although this decision was not made because of this complaint, but rather because 
the streets were not ready for approval. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body must post notice of every meeting at 
least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). Notices must include "a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." Id. The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
The complaint alleges that the Board discussed and approved a warrant article during 
its August 22 meeting, although the topic was not listed on the notice for that meeting. The 
Board conceded that the chair should have anticipated that the topic would be discussed and 
therefore should have listed it on the notice and that this omission was an oversight. Because 
the Open Meeting Law requires that all anticipated topics be listed on the notice, we find that 
the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by omitting this topic from the notice. See OML 
2015-8.4 We note that, although the Board subsequently withdrew the article from the 
warrant, this decision was not intended to be remedial in response to the complaint, but rather 
due to it not being ready for Town Meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by discussing a topic during its August 22 meeting that was not listed on the notice. We order 
the Board's immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution 
that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
ww w .mass. gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc; Linda Segal 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 