===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
May 8, 2017 
OML 2017-73 
Brian Maser, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Maser; 
This office received a complaint from Alfreda Cromwell on February 8, 2017, alleging 
that the Shirley Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c, 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about December 1, 
and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated December 21. In her complaint, 
Ms. Cromwell alleges that the Board improperly closed its November 1 meeting to the public. 
Additionally, Ms. Cromwell alleges that a quorum of the Board passed a secret note during its 
November 9 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
improperly closing a portion of its November 1 meeting to the public and by improperly 
ordering members of the public to be removed. We find no violation with respect to the note 
passed during the November 9 meeting, however. In reaching a determination, we reviewed 
the original complaint, the Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with 
our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notices and minutes of the Board 
meetings held on November 1; November 9; and December 12. Finally, we reviewed 
portions of video-recordings of the Board's November 1 and November 9 meetings.2 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body, thus two 
members constitute a quorum. On November 1, the Board held a hearing regarding the 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016, unless otherwise indicated. 
2 Available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=40qBqSlGu4M and 
https;//www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCH06nWFLYE. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
discipline or dismissal of the complainant, who was a Shirley Police Sergeant at the time. 
Although the meeting notice listed the hearing as an executive session, at the request of the 
complainant, the hearing was held in open session in front of a packed audience. Counsel for 
the Board gave a brief introductory statement, stating that the public had the right to attend the 
meeting, but not the right to speak. Counsel also warned the attendees that any person who 
interrupts the meeting would be asked to cease interrupting and, if they refused, could be 
escorted out of the meeting. The Board requested the presence of State Police officers for this 
meeting. 
Approximately 52 minutes into the meeting. Police Chief Thomas Goulden 
recommended to the Board that the complainant be terminated based on her "untruthfulness." 
This statement elicited a response from the audience. Chair Kendra Dumont informed 
attendees that she was "going to have the room cleared" at which point a state trooper 
removed an individual from the meeting. A few minutes later, the complainant read aloud a 
written statement. This statement again elicited a response from the audience, including 
individuals who stood and clapped in apparent support of the statement. Chair Dumont 
waved her hand in the direction of the door and stated "out" several times. A state trooper 
stated, "everybody out now" and the audience then proceeded to leave the room. The hearing 
lasted for approximately another hour before the Board voted to demote the complainant from 
sergeant to patrolman. Members of the public were invited back after the hearing had 
concluded to observe the remainder of the topics on the agenda. The minutes do not reflect 
the fact that all members of the public were removed from the meeting and invited back into 
the meeting room following the hearing. 
The Board then held an entirely new hearing regarding the complainant on November 
9 related to new issues that arose since the last hearing. Although listed as an executive 
session on the notice, the complainant chose to have the hearing in open session again. At 
one point, the complainant's counsel stated that a witness was present at the hearing that 
would testify on the complainant's behalf. Counsel for the Board and the Town 
Administrator then had a private conversation. The Town Administrator wrote a note, which 
she passed to Chair Dumont via Selectmen Robert Prescott. According to the Board, the note 
stated, "Brian said let the witness testify." Although this note is not reflected in the minutes, 
the Board disclosed the contents of the note in response to this complaint during its December 
12 meeting. Following that hearing, the Board voted to terminate the complainant. 
DISCUSSION 
All meetings of a public body shall be open to the public, except when a public body 
convenes in executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). The public has a right to attend and 
observe the public body's deliberations, except where a person is disruptive. See OMT 2013-
135; OML 2013-128.3 The Open Taw states that "[n]o person shall disrupt the proceedings of 
a meeting of a public body. If, after clear warning from the chair, a person continues to 
disrupt the proceedings, the chair may order the person to withdraw from the meeting and if 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
the person does not withdraw, the chair may authorize a constable or other officer to remove 
the person from the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). 
The complaint alleges that the entire audience was improperly removed from the 
Board's November 1 meeting. We agree. First, a state trooper removed a person from the 
meeting without Chair Dumont first giving that person a clear warning. Instead, when Chair 
Dumont stated that she was "going to have the room cleared," a state trooper removed a 
person. This caused an apparent pause in the hearing during which Chair Dumont and the 
Board watched the person protest before leaving the room. By allowing that person to be 
removed from the meeting without any prior warning, the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law. Second, although Chair Dumont's statement to the audience that she was "going to 
have the room cleared" arguably constituted a first warning, it was not clearly directed at any 
specific person(s). Moreover, following that warning, it was necessary for Chair Dumont to 
deem every person in the audience to have continued to "disrupt the proceedings" before she 
could require each of them to leave the meeting. Although not defined in the Open Meeting 
Law, "disrupt" is defined as, "to break apart; to throw into disorder; to interrupt to the extent 
of stopping, preventing normal continuance of, or destroying[.]" Webster's Third New 
International Dictionary of the English Language. 656 (unabridged ed. 1964). Thus, a person 
is deemed "disruptive" when the behavior prevents a meeting from proceeding in the normal 
course. Here, Chair Dumont removed the entire audience from the meeting following the 
clapping and cheering of individuals in the audience. It would have been appropriate for 
Chair Dumont to ask those specific people who clapped to cease their behavior and remain 
quiet (or else she would ask them to leave); however, it was improper to direct state police to 
empty the entire room at that point. By excluding the public from this portion of the meeting, 
we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. While these violations are indeed 
serious, we decline to consider nullifying the Board's actions because it terminated the 
complainant at a subsequent, open meeting. 
The complaint also alleges that a quorum of the Board passed a secret note during its 
November 9 meeting. The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body 
(during which all deliberation takes place) be open and accessible to the public. See G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18, 20(a); OML 2012-49. Access must include the opportunity to be physically 
present as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. 
See OML 2017-16; OML 2013-189; OML 2012-66; OML 2012-48. Here, a note from the 
Town Administrator, who is not a member of the Board, to the Board's chair is not 
deliberation, as defined by the Open Meeting Law, because a quorum of the Board did not 
participate in the communication. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (a "deliberation" is defined as "an 
oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction"). 
Accordingly, we find no violation of the law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by improperly closing a portion of its November 1 meeting to the public and by improperly 
3 
===PAGE 4===
ordering members of the public to be removed. We order the Board's immediate and future 
compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Alfreda Cromwell 
Shirley Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G,L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 