===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
August 11, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 105 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Michael Cunningham, Esq. 
Town Counsel 
Town of Arlington 
mcunningham@town.arlington.ma.us 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Cunningham: 
 
This office received a complaint from Cheryl Miller on June 25, 2026, alleging that the 
Arlington School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on May 14, 2026, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated June 29, 2026, following an extension of 
time granted by this office.
1 The complaint alleges that the Committee created insufficiently 
detailed minutes of an executive session meeting held on May 1, 2025. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
way alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, the request for further review, and both the original and amended minutes of 
the executive session meeting held on May 1, 2025. 
 
 
1 We note that the Committee was granted, pursuant to 940 CMR 29.05(5)(b), an extension until June 18, 2026, to 
respond to the complaint. It does not appear that the Committee requested a further extension of time and thus, we 
remind the Committee that the Open Meeting Law requires that when granted an extension of time to respond, the 
public body must, within that time frame, meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if 
appropriate; send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the 
Attorney General a copy of the complaint, the response, and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On May 1, 2025, the Committee met in executive 
session to discuss a proposed contract renewal for Alison Elmer, Assistant Superintendent for 
Student Services, whose three-year contract was set to expire at the end of June 2025. The 
original minutes state that Superintendent Elizabeth Homan informed the Committee that she 
spoke with Assistant Superintendent Elmer about the salary increase under the proposed contract 
renewal and that it was commensurate with that of the Assistant Superintendent for Finance and 
Operations. Dr. Homan invited Committee members to share their thoughts and questions. The 
minutes do not include any comments or questions from Committee members, nor responses 
from Dr. Homan. Rather, the original minutes simply state “after discussion, the committee 
consensus was that members were comfortable with a 4.33% increase.” Dr. Homan appreciated 
the input from the Committee and advised that she would report back after discussing the terms 
further with Assistant Superintendent Elmer. 
 
 In response to the Open Meeting Law complaint at issue here, the Committee voted to 
amend the original May 1, 2025, executive session meeting minutes during a meeting held on 
June 11, 2026. The amended minutes add twelve words to describe the nature of the 
Committee’s discussion: “after discussion regarding a potential salary increase based on Ms. 
Elmer’s time and experience, the committee consensus was that the members were comfortable 
with a 4.33% increase” (added language in italics). 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body 
“create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a). Minutes must set forth “the date, time and place [of the meeting], the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.” Id. When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2025-183; 
OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64.2 By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should 
contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 
2025-18; OML 2012-106. It is not sufficient for the minutes to simply state that a topic was 
discussed, or simply list the topics discussed; the minutes must actually summarize the 
discussion that occurred. See OML 2023-33; OML 2019-167; OML 2018-8. 
 
The complaint alleges that the minutes of the executive session held on May 1, 2025, do 
not contain the accuracy and level of detail required by the Open Meeting Law. During the May 
1, 2025, meeting, the Committee discussed a contract renewal for Assistant Superintendent 
Elmer for approximately 25 minutes. Yet, the minutes merely reflect that the Committee had a 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
discussion about the contract renewal, and that the discussion led to a “consensus” on an 
appropriate salary increase for Assistant Superintendent Elmer. The original minutes we 
reviewed do not actually summarize the discussions that took place. Thus, we find that the 
original minutes fall short of the accuracy requirement in the Open Meeting Law, and that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to create and approve sufficiently accurate 
minutes. See OML 2023-33 (finding minutes that merely included statements that discussions 
occurred, but did not actually summarize those discussions, to be insufficient). 
 
In response to the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee revised the executive 
session minutes by including one additional phrase to explain that the discussion pertained to a 
potential salary increase. We find this addition to the May 1, 2025, executive session minutes to 
be insufficient. The Committee’s amendment to the minutes simply clarified that the discussion 
was about a salary increase but did not actually summarize the discussion the Committee had 
about the salary increase. Moreover, the minutes do not include any summary of Committee 
members’ comments or questions in response to Superintendent Homan’s requests for such after 
updating the Committee on her conversations with Assistant Superintendent Elmer about a 
contract renewal. See OML 2021-137 (finding minutes to be insufficient where they summarized 
questions posed to applicants but failed to summarize responses to the questions); OML 2016-
105 (finding minutes insufficient where they lacked any description of questions asked by 
Committee members or answers given by applicants). As such, we find both the original and 
amended minutes of the May 1, 2025, executive session to be insufficient. We therefore find that 
the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it failed to create accurate minutes for its 
May 1, 2025, executive session meeting.
3 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to create sufficiently accurate minutes of the executive session meeting held on May 1, 
2025. We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, 
and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
law. In addition, we order the Committee, within 30 days of the date of this letter, to revise the 
minutes of the May 1, 2025, executive session to the best of its ability, with the information 
available to them, and to notify our office that it has done so. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
 
 
3 To the extent the Committee was hesitant to include information in the minutes due to confidentiality or sensitivity 
of certain matters, we remind the Committee that creating insufficiently detailed minutes is not a permissible 
solution. See OML 2023-157. Instead, a public body may redact executive session minutes before releasing them 
publicly in accordance with one or more exemptions under the Public Records Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). A 
public body may not, however, choose to create insufficient meeting minutes in the first place as a means of 
withholding information that it believes might be exempt from disclosure. See OML 2023-157; OML 2022-233; 
OML 2022-189. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by Ian Harvey, Legal Intern 
 
 
cc: Cheryl Miller  
Laura Gitelson, Chair, Arlington School Committee (via email: 
lgitelson@arlington.k12.ma.us) 
Arlington Town Clerk (via email: jbrazile@town.arlington.ma.us) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
