===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
February 13, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 25 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Olivia Hart-Paulson, Esq. 
Second Assistant City Solicitor  
City of Lowell Law Department  
City Hall 
375 Merrimack Street, 3rd Floor 
Lowell, MA 01852   
 
ohartpaulson@lowellma.gov 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Hart-Paulson: 
 
This office received a complaint from Laura Ortiz on September 12, 2025, alleging that 
the City of Lowell Library Board of Trustees (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on June 5, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated July 24.
1  The complaint alleges that the Board 
deliberated outside of a posted meeting to prepare a letter in response to Executive Order 14238 
signed by President Donald Trump on March 14.2     
 
We appreciate the parties’ patience as we reviewed this matter.  Following our review, 
we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, and the 
request for further review.  We reviewed Executive Order 14238.  We also reviewed materials 
forwarded by the complainant with her request for review and materials you forwarded to us in 
 
1 Unless stated otherwise, all dates refer to 2025. 
2 To the extent that the complaint alleges insufficiency of notice relative to the deliberations held outside meetings 
“[o]n or before 5/7/25-5/8/25 and 5/17/25,” we decline to review that allegation.  Insufficiency of notice is 
subsumed by the main allegation of the complaint, that deliberations occurred outside a properly posted meeting.  
We also take this opportunity to encourage complainants to avoid repetitious language in an Open Meeting Law 
complaint when possible.  Allegations which are stated clearly and concisely facilitate review by public bodies and 
our office.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
response to our request, including emails between Board members about the letter.  Finally, we 
reviewed minutes of the Board’s meeting held on April 9 and June 11.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  At all relevant times, the Board consisted of eight regular 
members, plus the City Manager, who served as President Ex Officio.  On March 14, President 
Trump signed Executive Order 14238, ordering the elimination of seven governmental entities 
“to the maximum extent consistent with applicable law.”  Among the seven entities subject to 
Executive Order 14238 was the Institute of Museum and Library Services (“IMLS”).  At its 
meeting on April 9, the Board discussed the anticipated cuts to the IMLS and their impact on 
Lowell’s public library, the Pollard Memorial Library.  Library Director Bridget Cooley spoke to 
the need to defend the IMLS and maintain library funding, and outlined actions that could be 
taken toward those ends.  The Board discussed what it could do to advocate for the library.  One 
suggestion was to write a letter promoting reinstatement of IMLS funds and services.  The letter 
would go to local leaders, the Massachusetts Congressional delegation and others.  Following the 
discussion, the Board unanimously voted to prepare a letter to highlight the impact of the cuts.  
Member Courtney McSparron volunteered to prepare a draft, using letters that other groups had 
issued as templates.  The Board decided that members individually would provide feedback to 
Library Director Bridget Cooley and Board Chair Donna Richards, who would then incorporate 
the feedback as appropriate and issue the final draft of the letter.   
 
After the April 9 meeting, Member McSparron prepared a draft letter concerning the cuts 
to the IMLS.  On May 2, Chair Richards sent an email to all regular members of the Board, 
attaching the draft letter.
3  In the email, Chair Richards stated:  
 
Attached is the letter we discussed sending to various outlets.  PLEASE review and make 
comments on this DRAFT. 
 
To remain in compliance with OPEN MEETING LAW REPLY ONLY TO DONNA 
RICHARDS and BRIDGET COOLEY. 
 
Please respond ASAP as we want to get this out quickly. 
 
Thank you !! 
 
The next day, May 3, Chair Richards sent another email to Board members, advising that 
all members had responded to her email and thanking everyone for their “thoughtful 
suggestions.”  She concluded “We will review and make changes.  Stay tuned.  Donna.”  A few 
minutes after emailing the Board, Chair Richards sent another email to Member McSparron and 
Member Christine O’Connor, and Director Cooley, forwarding the draft letter with the comments 
she had received from the other members.  She invited Member McSparron, Member O’Connor, 
and Director Cooley to “weigh in what you think about what was sent.”  Over the days that 
followed, Members McSparron and O’Connor, Chair Richards, and Director Cooley emailed 
 
3 It appears that the City Manager, who is President Ex-Officio of the Board, was not copied on the email.  Also, the 
complaint suggests there are ten members of the Board, including the City Manager.  We counted only nine.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
each other, discussing the other members’ proposed revisions, refining the language of the letter 
and planning the logistics of its release.  When Member McSparron asked whether the final draft 
required a vote, Chair Richards responded on May 5: “My feeling is that we sent it for comment, 
will make ‘appropriate’ changes, and can send it . . . no need to vote.  I also will try to make a 
stab at changes, I agree with you not all are necessary.”   
 
On or about May 8, all eight regular Board members, including Chair Richards, signed 
the letter.  It was posted to the library website on or about May 14.  The final draft of the letter 
noted that Massachusetts receives approximately $3.6 million in funding from the IMLS 
annually.  It detailed what services the Pollard Memorial Library might lose as a result of the 
anticipated funding cuts, including e-books, audiobooks, research databases, and interlibrary 
loan.  The letter encouraged patrons to sign a petition in support of IMLS, contact elected 
officials, and use the library, its services and programs to demonstrate the library’s importance to 
the community.  There was no Board meeting in May.  The Board next met on June 11.  During 
the June 11 meeting, the Board discussed public reaction to the letter and other steps to be taken 
in response to the cuts to IMLS. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when convened in executive session, “all 
meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A “meeting” is 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; . . . .”  Id.  
 
Chair Richards sent an email to all regular members of the Board, attaching a letter 
drafted by a fellow Board member and seeking members’ input.  The next day, she sent another 
email to them all, thanking them for their “thoughtful suggestions” and advising as to next steps: 
“We will review and make changes.  Stay tuned.”  There is no dispute that the letter constituted 
communication within the Board’s jurisdiction; it focused on efforts to restore funding for the 
library’s core services.  The letter was written by a member of the Board outside a meeting and 
circulated outside a meeting.  As such, the letter constituted deliberation and should have been 
discussed in an open meeting.  By deliberating outside of a meeting, the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law.4 
 
In its response, the Board argues that it did not violate the Open Meeting Law because 
the Board had discussed the topic during the April 9 meeting and had voted to prepare a letter in 
 
4 Chair Richards’ emails to all Board members might also have constituted deliberation outside a meeting , separate 
and apart from the letter attached to them.  See OML 2025-106 (finding that a city councilor violated the Open 
Meeting Law when he forwarded a letter written by a non-member, protesting changes to the state’s emergency 
shelter policy, to a quorum of the city council with the notation “In case you wanted to sign on. ”).  We need not 
decide whether the emails constituted violations, however, as we find that the letter itself did .  Additionally, to the 
extent that the final draft was forwarded to members outside a meeting for their review and approval, such 
communication also would constitute deliberation outside a meeting in violation of the Open Meeting Law .   
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
this manner.  We disagree.  Initiating discussion of a topic in open session does not give a public 
body license to continue the discussion outside a meeting.  The Open Meeting Law lists several 
exceptions to the definition of “deliberation.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  It does not list as an exception 
a topic that has already been discussed at a meeting.  The letter was subject to the Open Meeting 
Law even if members were expecting it following their discussion and vote at the last meeting.  
Moreover, it cannot be said that circulation of the letter fell within the exception to the definition 
of “deliberation” for the “distribution of . . . documents that may be discussed at a meeting.”  
G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Board did not hold another meeting prior to public dissemination of the 
letter.  When the Board next met, on June 11, it discussed public reaction to the letter; the exact 
substance of the letter was never discussed in a public meeting until it was finalized and made 
public. 
 
Chair Richards’s email to Board members evidences an additional misunderstanding of 
the Open Meeting Law.  In her email circulating the first draft of the letter, she instructed 
members to send their input to her and the Director only, “to remain in compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law.”  A one-way communication from one public body member to a quorum on 
matters within the body’s jurisdiction constitutes deliberation for purposes of the Open Meeting 
Law, even if no other public body member responds.  See OML 2021-178; OML 2016-104; 
OML 2012-73.  The Board ran afoul of the Open Meeting Law when the letter was circulated to 
a quorum of members; a response was not required for there to be a violation.  We recognize that 
the process of revising the letter during a posted meeting might have been cumbersome and time 
consuming.  It was, however, what the law required. 
 
 Having found a violation, we next consider the complainant’s request that we find that 
the Board acted intentionally.  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body or 
a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 29.02.  An 
intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the 
law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting 
Law.  Id.  Upon the finding of a violation, the attorney general may issue an order to impose a 
civil penalty upon the public body of not more than $1,000 for each intentional violation.  See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  We do not find this violation to be intentional.  There is no evidence that 
the Board willfully violated the Open Meeting Law when it communicated about the letter.  To 
the contrary, the Chair urged other members to respond only to her and the Library Director to 
ensure compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  That language demonstrates a 
misunderstanding of the Law’s requirements, not intentional defiance of them. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it deliberated outside a posted meeting.  We order immediate and future compliance with 
the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence 
of intent to violate the law. 
 
We also order the release of any written communication, including emails, between or 
among a quorum of Board members about the letter that the Board issued in response to 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Executive Order 14238.5  We order the Board to certify to this office within forty-five (45) days 
of the date of this letter that it has done so.  See 940 C.M.R. 29.07(4).  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,  
  
  
M
atthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Laura Ortiz (via email:  
 Michael Geary, Lowell City Clerk (via email: mgeary@lowellma.gov) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
5 The Board may publicly release the communications by reading them during a meeting and listing them in the 
meeting minutes, or by referencing them during a meeting and posting them along with the minutes on the Board’s 
website.  See OML 2021-61. 
 
