===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.rnass.gov/ago  
June 1, 2012 
OML 2012 — 42 
Juliana deHaan Rice 
Town Counsel 
Town of Arlington 
50 Pleasant St. 
Arlington, MA 02476 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Rice: 
This office received a complaint from Christopher Loreti, dated October 11, 2011, 
alleging that the Arlington Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about July 20, 
2011, and the Board responded to the original complaint by letter dated August 23, 2011. In his 
complaint, Loreti alleges that the Board failed to provide him with a requested document within 
10 days, and that it improperly refused to release an unredacted copy of a memorandum used 
during an open session meeting. 
We reviewed the July 20, 2011 and October 11, 2011 complaints; the Board's August 23, 
2011 response; the meeting notice and minutes for the Board's July 5, 2011 open session 
meeting; the video recording of the Board's July 5, 2011 open session meeting; a July 8, 2011 
email from the complainant to Town Manager Brian Sullivan, requesting the memorandum in 
unredacted form; emails from the complainant to our office, dated January 11 and January 18, 
2012; and emails from Town Counsel to our office, dated April 19, 20, and 27, 2012. 1  We also 
spoke with Town Counsel regarding the complaint in February and April 2012. 
Following our review, we find that the Board, although acting in good faith, violated the 
Open Meeting Law by not including a list of documents used at the meeting in the minutes for its 
July 5, 2011 meeting. The Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by not responding to the 
complainant's public records request or by refusing, in response to this complaint, to produce an 
unredacted copy of the memorandum used at the July 5, 2011 meeting. 
1
For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS  
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. 
On July 5, 2011, the Board held an open session meeting. The agenda listed only one 
item, "Discussion of Symmes Property Redevelopment." 
Prior to this meeting, Town Manager Brian Sullivan prepared a memorandum, addressed 
to the Board and dated July 1, 2011, evaluating the merits of various development proposals 
submitted for the site. At the end of the memo, Sullivan recommended "that the Board take a 
vote to recommend that approval of Upton & Partners as the redeveloper for the Symmes 
property would be in the best interests of the Town and urge the Arlington Redevelopment Board 
and PNC Bank to act in accordance with this recommendation." The memorandum was 
delivered to all members of the Board at their homes, along with other information for the 
members' consideration in advance of its July 5, 2011 meeting. 
According to the Board's response to the complaint, during the course of its review of 
several competing redevelopment proposals for this project, certain redeveloper candidates 
"asked that financial and other proprietary information submitted in connection with their 
proposal be held confidential until the end of the process." Further, the Board's response notes, 
"Among the proprietary information requested to be held confidential was the identity of 
proposed equity partners of one candidate called Upton + Partners ('Upton')." The 
memorandum from the Town Manager to the Board members, which was delivered to their 
homes and labeled "Confidential," included the identity of Upton's proposed equity partners. 
At the July 5, 2011 meeting, the Chair began by stating the purpose of the meeting was to 
listen to the Town Manager's recommendation, not to discuss the merits of which developer was 
the best. The Town Manager then gave some background on the project. The video recording 
shows he had documents on the table in front of him, and looked at them periodically throughout 
the course of his remarks. Although he did not identify or read verbatim from the documents 
before him, the content of the Town Manager's remarks tracked the July 1, 2011 memorandum, 
paragraph by paragraph, including his ultimate recommendation that Upton & Partners be 
selected. At the conclusion of his remarks, using language that mirrored his recommendation in 
the memo, the Town Manager asked that the Board take a vote to recommend Upton & Partners 
to the Arlington Redevelopment Board. At no point did the Town Manager identify the Upton & 
Partners' proposed equity partners. 
The minutes from the meeting state that Board Member Greeley made a motion "that the 
Board of Selectmen for the Town of Arlington hereby recommends that approval of the Upton & 
Partners as the redeveloper for the Symmes property would be in the best interests of the Town 
and urges the Arlington Redevelopment Board and PNC Bank to act in accordance with this 
recommendation." A later version of the minutes added to the end of this statement the phrase 
"because the Upton & Partners proposal best meets the five goals of the Town in purchasing the 
property." The video recording shows that Member Greeley's actual statement was, "I move that 
this Board recommend to the Redevelopment Board that they give preference to the Upton 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Partners." 2  Later in the meeting, after further discussing the process that had been followed and 
the merits of the competing proposals, the Chair stated "We have a vote. Would you like me to 
read the vote?" She then read from an unidentified document the exact language of the proposed 
vote in the Town Manager's memorandum. The vote passed by a margin of 4 to 1. 
Although the response to the complaint states that "kit is not even clear that any of the 
Board members had the memorandum in their possession during the meeting," according to 
Town Counsel, the Chair did subsequently state that she believed a redacted version of the 
memorandum had been left on the Board members' desks before the July 5, 2011 meeting. The 
Town Manager similarly informed Town Counsel that he thought he had a redacted version of 
the memorandum in front of him during the meeting. This version blacked out the name and 
certain other identifying information about an equity partner overseeing the construction 
contractor. 
On July 6, 2011, according to the complainant, the Town Manager sent the redacted 
version of the memorandum to a member of the local press. On July 8, 2011, the complainant 
sent an email to the Town Manager, with copies to Town Counsel and Bob Sprague, who 
manages the website YourArlington.com , noting that he had "reviewed the copy of this 
memorandum, as it was provided to the Your Arlington website" and was now requesting "the 
memorandum, in its entirety, with no redactions." The complainant did not receive a response to 
this public records request. In its August 23, 2011 response to this complaint, however, the 
Board declined to release an unredacted version of the memorandum, arguing that it was not 
"used" at the July 5, 2011 meeting. 
Minutes for the July 5, 2011 meeting were posted on the Town's website on August 25, 
2011. The minutes do not list any documents used at the meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that the minutes of a public body's meetings contain "a 
list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Documents and 
other exhibits that are "used by the body at an open or executive session shall, along with the 
minutes, be part of the official record of the session." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(d). Furthermore, all 
documents and exhibits that are used at an open session meeting "shall be public records in their 
entirety and not exempt from disclosure pursuant to any of the exemptions" to the public records 
law, although certain material may be exempt from disclosure to the public as personnel 
information. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e). 
The Open Meeting Law does not define what it means for a document to be "used" at a 
meeting. At a minimum, it is clear that where a document is physically present, verbally 
identified, and the contents are discussed by the members of a public body during an open 
session meeting, it has been "used" for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. In such instances, 
the document must be listed in the minutes and made available as a public record. We decline to 
2  We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain 
accurate minutes of all meetings . . ." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Minutes should contain enough detail and 
accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred. See  OML 2012-29; 2011-55. Open Meeting Law determinations 
may be found at the Attorney General's website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
3 
===PAGE 4===
adopt the complainant's argument that all background material used by members of a public 
body to prepare for a public meeting should be considered "used" at the meeting, regardless of 
whether it is discussed, voted upon, or even brought to the meeting. 
Here, it is clear that the Town Manager, who is not a member of the Board, had some 
version of the memorandum physically before him during the open session meeting on July 5, 
2011. The video recording of the meeting shows him periodically glancing at a paper document, 
and his remarks tracked the contents of the memorandum paragraph by paragraph. While this 
document was physically present and the contents were discussed, the Town Manager never 
identified the document before him. The fact that the document was not identified does not 
necessarily mean it was not "used" at the meeting, though it poses challenges in terms of 
identifying that document in response to requests such as the complainant's. According to Town 
Counsel, during her conversations with the Town Manager he stated that the version of the 
memorandum that he had before him was likely the redacted version of the memorandum. We 
have not been provided with any evidence to the contrary. 
We need not resolve that question, however, because the larger impediment to finding 
this document to be "used" at the meeting due to the Town Manager's remarks is that the Town 
Manager is not a member of the public body. The Open Meeting Law clearly states that only 
documents and exhibits "used by the body" shall be part of the official record of the session. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(d). Thus, if a document is used only by a non-member, and not distributed to 
the body's members during a meeting, it has not been "used" at the meeting for purposes of the 
Open Meeting Law. 
The Board's response to the complaint states that the "Board members did not discuss the 
memorandum and the Board did not take any vote concerning it. This memorandum was strictly 
in the nature of background material provided to Board members in advance of the meeting." 
However, the Chair stated to Town Counsel that she believed the redacted version of the 
memorandum had been placed on the Board members' desks prior to the meeting, thus that 
document was physically present. Furthermore, it is clear from the video recording of the 
meeting that the Chair read the language of the vote that was ultimately taken from a document 
that was before her. Although that document was never verbally identified, it appears more 
likely than not that she was reading from some version of the memorandum. Because it was 
physically present and its contents were discussed by members of the Board, we find that the 
redacted version of the memorandum was used at the meeting. 
Since it was used at the meeting, the Board should have listed the redacted memorandum 
in the meeting minutes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Although we find that the Board failed to 
comply with this requirement of the Open Meeting Law, we believe the violation was not 
intentional, but rather was the result of a good faith belief that the document was not "used" at 
the meeting. We hope that the guidance in this letter will enable the Board to fully comply with 
this requirement going forward. 
Furtheimore, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
respond to the complainant's public records request within 10 days. The public records request 
for the unredacted memorandum was sent to the Town Manager and Town Counsel, not to the 
4 
===PAGE 5===
Board. Therefore, the Board was under no obligation to respond to that request. 3  The Board also 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law by refusing to produce the unredacted memorandum in 
response to this complaint. While the Open Meeting Law provides that any document or exhibit 
used during an open session meeting shall be a public record in its entirety, the entirety of a 
redacted document does not include the redacted portions of that document, since that 
information was not contained in the document used at the meeting. See  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e). 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
not including a list of documents used in the minutes for its July 5, 2011 meeting. The Board did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law by not responding to complainant's public records request or 
by refusing, in response to this complaint, to produce an unredacted copy of the memorandum 
used at the July 5, 2011 meeting. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law. Furthermore, we order the Board to amend the minutes from its July 5, 2011 
meeting, within thirty (30) days of receipt if this determination, to include a list of documents 
used at that meeting. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this letter 
to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Amy L. Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Christopher Loreti 
Arlington Board of Selectmen 
We express no opinion on whether or not the Town complied with the requirements of the Public Records Law. 
5 