===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
September 16, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 121 
 
Megan B. Bayer, Esq. 
Office of the City Solicitor 
City of Cambridge 
 
By email only: mbayer@cambridgema.gov 
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Bayer: 
 
This office received a complaint from Anna Shin on January 19, 2026, alleging that the 
Graham & Parks School Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.
0F
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about October 16, 2025, 
and the Council responded on November 24, 2025.1F
2  The complaint alleges that the Council 
posted insufficiently specific notice of a meeting held on September 17.2F
3  
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law when it posted an insufficiently 
specific notice of its September 17 meeting.  We also find the violation to be intentional.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Council’s response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  In addition, we 
reviewed the notice and agenda of the September 17 meeting.  We listened to an audio recording 
of the September 17 meeting provided to us by the complainant.  Finally, we communicated with 
the complainant via telephone and email. 
 
  
 
1 An employee of the Attorney General’s Office is a member of the Council. The complaint contains no allegation 
specific to the actions of that employee and the employee played no role in this office’s consideration of the 
complaint. 
2 The Council is reminded that, unless an extension of time has been granted, a public body must, within 14 
business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, meet to review the complaint, respond to the 
complainant, send a copy of the complaint to the Attorney General’s Office and notify the Attorney General’s Office 
of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, §23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5), (6).  We caution the Council that it must 
respond timely to any complaints in the future, and that the failure to timely respond to a complaint is itself a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
3 Unless otherwise stated, all dates in this letter refer to 2025. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  On September 6, the Council posted notice of the 
September 17 meeting.  The notice listed the “purpose” of the meeting as “G&amp;P [sic] 
School Council Meeting” but did not include any discussion topics.  A separate agenda, with a 
list of discussion topics, was later posted as a separate document.  The meeting took place as 
scheduled, and was attended by the complainant.  It lasted approximately one hour.  During the 
meeting, the Council discussed past and upcoming events that are open to the school community, 
including a “Back to School Night.”  The Council also discussed staffing updates and a school 
improvement plan, among other topics.  During the meeting there were opportunities for public 
comment. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The complainant has demonstrated good cause for her delay in seeking 
review of the complaint. 
 
As an initial matter, we note that the complainant did not request review of the 
complaint in a timely manner.  The Attorney General’s regulations provide: 
 
The Attorney General shall decline to investigate complaints filed with the 
Attorney General more than 90 days after the alleged violation of [the Open 
Meeting Law], or if the alleged violation ... could not reasonably have been 
known at the time it occurred, then within 90 days of the date it should reasonably 
have been discovered.  However, this time may be extended if the Attorney 
General grants an extension to the public body to respond to a complaint or if the 
complainant demonstrates good cause for the delay in filing with the Attorney 
General. 
 
940 CMR 29.05(7). 
 
When an alleged violation, including discussion of an insufficiently specific 
notice topic, occurs during an open session, it is reasonably discoverable at the time it 
occurs.  See OML 2026-42; 2025-96; OML Declination 8-30-24 (New Marlborough 
Select Board).3F
4  The complainant alleges that the Council discussed anticipated topics at 
its open meeting on September 17, even though the meeting notice did not list any topics.    
The complainant did not request that we review her complaint until January 19, 2026.  
On August 18, 2026, we spoke at length with the complainant about the circumstances 
that contributed to her delay in requesting our review.  Upon careful consideration of 
those circumstances, we find that the complainant has demonstrated good cause for the 
delay, and we review her complaint. 
 
  
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
II. The Council violated the Open Meeting Law when it posted an 
insufficiently specific notice of the September 17 meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law “is designed to eliminate much of the secrecy 
surrounding the deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione 
v. Sch. Comm. of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice 
of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and 
legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Notices must include “a listing of topics that the 
chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must 
have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  The Open Meeting Law requires that the notice 
describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an informed 
decision whether to attend the meeting to observe the discussion regarding a topic of 
interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22.   
 
The Council acknowledges, and we find, that the notice of the September 17 
meeting did not satisfy the requirements of the Open Meeting Law.  The notice did not 
contain any list of discussion topics.  Although a separate agenda, with a list of topics, 
was later posted, the agenda was not attached or linked to the notice.  Therefore, a 
member of the public, upon reading the notice, would not know what topics of discussion 
were anticipated and would not be directed to the list of topics found on the separate 
agenda.  For these reasons, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
III. The violation was intentional. 
 
Finally, we must determine whether the Council’s violation was, as the complainant 
alleges, an intentional one.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A n intentional violation is an “act or 
omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting 
Law].”  940 CMR 29.02.  An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted 
with deliberate ignorance of the law’s requirements or has previously been advised that certain 
conduct violates the Open Meeting Law.  Id.   
 
 On June 27, 2025, our office issued determination OML 2025-85, in which we found that 
the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by posting notice of a meeting to be held on 
September 19, 2024, which was devoid of any discussion topics.  Prior to the September 19, 
2024, meeting, the Council posted a separate agenda which listed discussion topics.  However, 
we found that this approach still fell short of the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, as “the 
agenda with list of topics was neither physically attached to the notice nor available through a 
link within the notice.”  See OML 2025-85.     
 
On September 6, 2025, approximately two months after receipt of OML 2025-85, the 
Council posted notice of its September 17, 2025, meeting (the meeting that is the topic of the 
instant complaint), simply listing its “purpose” as “[G&P] School Council Meeting” without any 
description of the topics to be discussed.  In doing so, it committed a violation that was of the 
same nature as the one found in OML 2025-85, issued on June 27, 2025.   
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
While acknowledging that notice of the September 17, 2025, meeting did not meet the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law, the Council maintains that the violation was not 
intentional because issuance of OML 2025-85 coincided with the retirement of Cambridge 
Public Schools’ legal counsel and because “problems with posting are IT problems that will be 
remedied.”  The Council is reminded that it, not municipal staff or counsel, has ultimate 
responsibility to ensure that a proper notice is posted.  See OML Declination 8-24-23 (Gardner 
City Clerk) (“Although public bodies often rely on city clerks and other staff to perform certain 
administrative tasks required by the Open Meeting Law, such as posting meeting notices, 
ultimately it is the responsibility of the public body and its members to comply with the Open 
Meeting Law.”).  Because the violation at issue here is substantively the same as the one found 
in OML 2025-85, we find that it was intentional.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it posted notice that was not sufficiently specific.  We order immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  
 
Because we find an intentional violation, as explained above, we refer this matter for a 
hearing pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07(3) and recommend that the Council be assessed a fine of 
$500 pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c) (“Upon the finding of a violation, the attorney general may 
issue an order to . . . impose a civil penalty upon the public body of not more than $1,000 for 
each intentional violation”).  We invite the Council to contact this office to discuss the hearing 
process or other resolution of this matter.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
     Sincerely, 
      
       Matthew Lindberg 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
cc:   Anna Shin  
 Cambridge City Clerk (via email: cityclerk@cambridgema.gov) 
 School Council (via email: GAP -School-Council@cpsd.us) 
 
  

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 