===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
January 28, 2013 
OML 2013 - 11 
Amrith Kumar 
Chair 
Sterling Personnel Board 
1 Park Street 
Sterling, MA 01564 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Kumar: 
This office received an Open Meeting Law complaint from Mr. Russell Philpot, dated 
January 13, 2012, alleging that the Sterling Personnel Board (the "Board") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that Board "held three 
Executive Sessions on (05/25/11, 08/15/11, & 10/17/2011) for the apparent purpose of 
discussing unspecified charges against me by a person unknown to me," and that "I had no prior 
knowledge of any of these meetings. I was not able to attend, bring legal counsel, make an audio 
recording, hear or challenge any of the discussion about my character, reputation, or potential 
criminal charges against me." The complaint was filed with the Board on or about December 5, 
2011. The Board responded by email and letter on December 27, 2011. 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed the December 5, 2011 complaint; the Board's December 27, 2011 response; and the 
January 13, 2012 complaint filed with our office. We also reviewed a series of emails between 
the complainant and Chair Kumar' sent between and January 3, 2012 and January 4, 2012. We 
reviewed the notices and open and executive session minutes for the Board's May 25 2011; June 
20, 2011; August 15, 2011; October 17, 2011; and November 21, 2011 meetings. We also 
reviewed the notice and minutes of the Board's December 27, 2011 and January 3, 2011 open 
meetings. 
FACTS 
On May 25, 2011; June 20, 2011; August 15, 2011; October 17, 2011; and November 21, 
1  For purpose of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2011, the Sterling Personnel Board held meetings during which it entered into executive session. 
For each executive session, the Board listed in its meeting notice "MGL 30A, s.21a, 1,5" as the 
purpose for the executive session. During three of those executive sessions, the Board discussed 
and voted to receive complaints against Mr. Philpot. The minutes of the Board's May 25, 2011 
executive session state, in part, that "[1]etters of complaint against Selectmen [sic] Russell 
Philpot were received..." 
The June 20, 2011 executive session did not involve discussion of Mr. Philpot, but did 
involve discussion of complaints against other individuals. During the August 15, 2011; October 
17, 2011; and November 21, 2011 executive sessions, the Board discussed complaints against 
Mr. Philpot as well as complaints against other individuals. The Board did not notify Mr. 
Philpot, nor any of the other individuals against whom complaints were filed, of the executive 
sessions, nor did the Board invite those individuals to be present during the executive sessions. 
Mr. Philpot states that he received a letter from then Board Chair Loret Schur on 
November 8, 2011, informing him for the first time of the complaints lodged against him Mr. 
Philpot filed his Open Meeting Law complaint with the Board on December 5, 2011. 
During the end of 2011, the Board membership changed, with four members leaving, 
including Chair Schur. The new Chair, Amrith Kumar, addressed the complaint. The Board 
provided our office a legal opinion from Town Counsel dated December 22, 2011. Counsel had 
reviewed the complaint, found that the prior Board had violated the Open Meeting Law, and 
suggested remedial steps. 
On December 27, 2011, the newly comprised Personnel Board, chaired by Amrith 
Kumar, met for the first time, and after taking care of organizational matters, addressed Mr. 
Philpot's complaints as the first order of business. The Board unanimously voted to 
acknowledge the allegations in the complaint, and issued a letter to the Board of Selectmen 
following the meeting, which was sent to Mr. Philpot on January 3, 2011 and dated December 
27, 2011. The letter stated, in relevant part, that the Board adopted the following resolutions: 
a. A motion that that [sic] the Personnel Board does hereby acknowledge a violation 
of the Open Meeting Law in that it failed to create and maintain in a timely 
manner, accurate minutes of the executive sessions held last summer (May 25, 
June 20, Aug 15, Oct 17, Nov 21), and that as of the date of this motion 
(12/27/2011) no minutes exist that were voted and approved by a majority of the 
Board members who were present at the subject meetings. 
b. A motion to accept a document prepared by Mr. Bruce Baker, clerk of the former 
Personnel Board, summarizing from his notes and other documents, the various 
executive sessions held last summer (May 25, June 20, Aug 15, Oct 17, Nov 21) 
and to release this document as part of the open meeting record for the meeting 
held on 12/27/2011. 
c. A motion to accept all notes and documents prepared by Mr. Bruce Baker, clerk 
of the former Personnel Board as the "unofficial minutes" of these executive 
sessions as they were neither prepared by, nor approved by a majority of the 
Board members present at the subject meetings, only to be released when the 
matters described therein have been completely resolved. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
d. A motion that finds that upon review of available material, it must be reasonably 
concluded that the former Personnel Board did not follow the correct procedure 
when it met in executive session on any of the specified days (May 25, June 20, 
Aug 15, Oct 17, Nov 21) since no prior notice and opportunity to attend appears 
to have been provided to the persons who were the subject of the complaints 
being discussed at those meetings as required by the Open Meeting Law. 
e. A motion that finds that all votes taken, and all actions taken at the subject 
executive sessions are rescinded, nullified, and of no effect. 
f. A motion that the "Workplace Conduct and Bully Policy" be held in abeyance, 
and that any and all complaints received under the policy be held in abeyance 
until such time as the Board reviews substantive and procedural issues relating to 
the policy. 
In the email sent to Mr. Philpot on January 3, 2011, Chair Kumar wrote that, "We, the 
members of the Personnel Board offer you our apologies for any inconvenience and hardships 
you may have suffered as a result of the actions of the Board." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that "all meetings of a public body shall be open to the 
public," subject to a narrow list of exceptions that can be conducted in executive session. G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(a). The law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding deliberations 
and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge, 
376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Among the ten purposes for executive—or closed—session is Purpose 
1, which states that a public body may enter executive session to "discuss the reputation, 
character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an 
individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, 
a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). If a public 
body enters executive session for Purpose 1, it must notify the individual who is the subject of 
the discussion in writing at least 48 hours before the meeting and afford the individual certain 
rights, including the right to be present at the meeting, speak on her own behalf, have counsel 
present to advise the individual, request the meeting be held in open session, and make an 
independent transcript or audio recording of the session. Id. Public bodies must create accurate 
minutes of every meeting, including executive sessions, and must include the votes taken and a 
summary of the discussion of each topic. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
The Personnel Board repeatedly violated the Open Meeting Law by entering executive 
session to discuss complaints against individuals, including Mr. Philpot, in executive session 
without providing those individuals any of the rights they must be afforded under executive 
session Purpose 1. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). Following Mr. Philpot's Open Meeting Law 
complaint and the December 2011 turnover of four of the five Board members, the Board took 
remedial steps to address the violation. The Board acknowledged the violations in clear terms, 
apologized to Mr. Philpot, disclosed additional meetings where the violations occurred, and 
nullified all actions taken during the illegal executive sessions. These were appropriate steps 
given the serious violations. The Board also created and released executive session minutes 
from each of the five meetings where the violations occurred. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
In Mr. Philpot's January 13, 2012 complaint filed with our office, he expressed that he 
was not satisfied with the remedial steps taken by the Board. Specifically, Mr. Philpot stated that 
"four of the five previous members (including former Chair — Loret Schur) have not apologized 
for their illegal actions against me." Mr. Philpot is also not satisfied with the Board's remedial 
steps to nullify the actions taken during its illegal executive sessions because the complaints 
against him are still on file with Town. Finally, Mr. Philpot states that he has not received "un-
redacted copies of any documents used or referenced in that meeting(s)," specifically, the 
complaints that were filed against him. 
The current Board has offered a written apology to Mr. Philpot. Our office encourages 
public bodies to offer apologies to complainants where appropriate, and generally will not take a 
position on whether the manner or content of the apology was sufficient. Furthermore, we are 
unable to order the additional remedial actions requested by Mr. Philpot because they are not 
within the reach of the Open Meeting Law. With respect to the complaints on file with the 
Town's Human Resources Department, we have no authority to order the Town to take action as 
our authority extends only to the public body, and we understand that the Board has nullified the 
votes taken during the illegal executive sessions. Mr. Philpot has also requested unredacted 
copies of the complaints filed against him. When the purpose for which a valid executive 
session was held has been served, "the minutes, preparatory materials and documents and 
exhibits of the session shall be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or 1 or more of the 
exemptions under [the Public Records Law] apply to withhold these records, or any portion 
thereof, from disclosure." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). Because the executive sessions for the five 
meetings discussed above were illegal, the Board must publicly release the minutes as well as 
any documents used by the Board in those sessions. However, even though the executive 
sessions were not valid, the Board may still redact documents to the extent the attorney/client 
privilege or an exemption under the Public Records Law applies. Id. We make no finding with 
respect to whether the documents Mr. Philpot seeks have been properly withheld or redacted 
under the Public Records Law. If Mr. Philpot believes they have been improperly redacted, he 
may appeal the Town's decision to withhold or redact the complaints to the Supervisor of Public 
Records in the Secretary of the Commonwealth's Public Records Division. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by meeting in executive session 
on May 25, 2011; June 20, 2011; August 15, 2011; October 17, 2011; and November 21, 2011 to 
discuss complaints against individuals and failing to provide the individuals being discussed with 
the rights afforded to them under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The remedial steps taken by the new 
Board in response to the complaint were appropriate given the seriousness of the violations. In 
addition to the steps already taken by the Board, we order the Board's immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution the Board that a determination by our 
office of similar violations in the future may be considered evidence of an intentional violation 
of the Open Meeting Law. Although we recognize that most of the Board members are new and 
were not responsible for the violations, we order the Board to attend a training on the Open 
Meeting Law within sixty (60) days of receipt of this letter, to be conducted by an attorney or 
organization familiar with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law and approved by this 
office. The Board may also meet this requirement by viewing the Open Meeting Law training 
video available on the Attorney General's website, www.mass.gov/ago/openrneeting . Following 
4 
===PAGE 5===
completion of the training, the Board shall send the Attorney General a letter certifying that its 
members have completed the training. This will ensure that going forward, the Board is 
completely aware of its obligations under the law. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during this investigation, and 
now consider this matter closed. 
Sincerely, 
nathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Russell Philpot 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
5 