===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
        
May 30, 2025 
 
OML 2025 – 66 
 
 
Robert W. Galvin, Esq. 
Galvin & Galvin, PC 
10 Enterprise Street, Suite 3 
Duxbury, MA 02332 
 
By email only: rwgalvin@galvin-legal.com 
 
 RE:        Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Galvin: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on December 6, 2024, alleging that 
the Marshfield Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about December 2, 2024, and you 
responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated December 6, 2024.  The 
complaint alleges that the Board posted a notice with insufficient specificity for a meeting held 
on December 2, 2024. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the way 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  In 
addition, we reviewed the notice, minutes and video recording of the Board meeting held on 
December 2, 2024.
1 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board duly posted notice of a meeting to be held on 
December 2, 2024, at 5:30 P.M.  The notice listed six main topic headings, one of which was 
“Action Items.”  The Board then listed 14 specific item descriptions that further advised the 
 
1 A video recording of the Board meeting held on December 2, 2024, is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nup_XOrVBI8. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
public of the topics to be discussed under “Action Items.”  Four of those specific item 
descriptions were “Discussion and Vote on Annual Renewal of Licenses for Restaurants and 
Clubs”, “Discussion and Vote on Annual Renewal of Licenses for Package Stores”, “Discussion 
and Vote on Requests for Extensions of Hours on New Year’s Eve”, and “Discussion and Vote 
on Request for Permission to Waive Permit Fees – Building Department.”   
 
The December 2, 2024, meeting was held as planned.  During the meeting, the Board 
discussed a request from the Building Department to waive all permit fees relative to the 
replacement of a gas generator at the town’s transfer station on Clay Pit Road.  The Board then  
unanimously voted to approve the waiver of permit fees.  Later, the Board Chair read the names 
of 34 restaurants and clubs that required renewal of their liquor, common victualler and 
entertainment licenses, and the names of 12 package stores that needed liquor license renewals.  
The Board unanimously voted to renew the liquor, common victualler and entertainment licenses 
for the 34 restaurants and clubs, and the liquor licenses for the 12 package stores.  Finally, the 
Board considered requests from the Marshfield Lodge of Elks and Rafferty’s Pub to extend their 
hours of operation one hour (until 1:45 A.M.) on New Year’s Eve.  The Board unanimously 
approved an extension of hours for these two establishments to remain open one hour later on 
New Year’s Eve.  In addition, the Board unanimously approved a one-hour extension to any 
other restaurant or club that submitted a written request prior to December 31, 2024.   
   
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Id.  The list of topics 
shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2019-70; OML 2015-35; OML 2013-39.
2   
 
The complaint alleges that the Board’s notice lacked sufficient specificity because it 
failed to list the specific businesses seeking renewal of licenses or an extension of hours for New 
Year’s Eve.  The Board admits, and we find, that the notice did not include further detail on the 
specific restaurants, clubs or package stores that were being considered for annual renewal of 
licenses.  In addition, the Board admits, and we find, that the notice also did not include further 
detail on the specific businesses that sought an extension of hours for New Year’s Eve.  To be 
sufficiently specific, a meeting notice must identify the specific applicants or license holders that 
will be considered during the meeting, as well as the specific type of license renewal to be 
reviewed.  See OML 2020-112; OML 2020-20; OML 2017-33; OML 2016-90.  We find that the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently specific notice where it failed 
to list the applicants or licensees, as well as the specific type of licenses the Board was 
considering.  Here, the meeting notice simply referred to “Renewal of Licenses” without 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
identifying the specific type of license renewals the Board would review in violation of the Open 
Meeting Law.  See OML 2017-33.  We commend the Board for committing to including 
additional specificity on meeting notices going forward and take this opportunity to remind the 
Board that a list of licenses or applications must be included on or with the notice document 
itself; it is not sufficient to reference a separate list that is available elsewhere.  See OML 2022-
68; OML 2020-21; OML 2019-22.  
 
The complaint further alleges that the Board’s notice lacked sufficient specificity where it 
failed to “list any details” with respect to the topic, “Discussion and Vote on Request for 
Permission to Waive Permit Fees – Building Department.”  Here, the Board discussed a request 
from the Building Department to waive permit fees relative to the replacement of a gas generator 
at the transfer station.  A public body need not list each and every detail about a topic in order to 
comply with the law’s requirements.  See OML 2019-134.  We find that the information listed on 
the notice with respect to this topic was sufficient to reasonably advise the public of the matter to 
be discussed at the meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); see also OML 2013-152.  As such, we 
find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the sufficiency of this 
topic. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently specific notice for the December 2, 2024, meeting that failed to list the 
specific businesses seeking renewal of licenses or an extension of hours for New Year’s Eve, and  
failed to list the specific type of license renewals the Board was considering.  We order the 
Board’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that 
similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
  
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
   
 
cc:       Patrick Higgins – By email only:  
 Marshfield Select Board – By email only: selectboard@townofmarshfield.org 
Marshfield Town Clerk Narice Casper – By email only: ncasper@townofmarshfield.org  
 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must 
be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 