===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
March 31, 2014 
OML 2014 - 33 
Bonnie Conner 
Chair, Select Board 
39 South Street 
Hinsdale, MA 01235 
Edward M. Frederick 
Chair, Finance Committee 
39 South Street 
Hinsdale, MA 01235 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Conner and Mr. Frederick: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. David Kokindo (the complainant) on October 
16, 2013, alleging that both the Hinsdale Select Board (the Board) and the Hinsdale Finance 
Committee (the Committee) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 18-25. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board and the Committee on or about August 1, 2013. 
The Board and the Committee responded to the complaint by letter dated August 14, 2013. The 
complaint specifically alleges that two Board members engaged in deliberation outside of a 
properly posted meeting regarding the appointment of a new member to the Committee. 
In reaching our determination, we reviewed the August 1, 2013 complaint filed with the 
Board and the Committee; the Board and the Committee's August 14, 2013 response; and the 
October 16, 2013 complaint filed with this office. We also reviewed documents provided by the 
complainant, including email correspondence between members of the Board and the Committee 
and requests by the Committee to transfer funds from the reserve fund, all dated between the 
years 2007 and 2013. We reviewed minutes of the Board's June 19, 2013 and July 17, 2013 
meetings, an audio recording of the July 17, 2013 Board meeting, and a letter sent by Edward 
Frederick to Shawn Williams, dated November 27, 2012. Finally, we spoke separately by 
telephone with Board Chair Bonnie Conner and with the complainant in December 2013.1 
1 For the purposes of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
Following our review, we find no evidence to support the complainant's allegations that 
the Board and the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
FACTS 
We find the facts to be as follows. During the Town of Hinsdale's annual election on 
May 18, 2013, members of the Committee discussed the possibility that a vacancy would result 
on the Committee should Bonnie Conner win election to the position of Selectman. Ms. Conner 
won her election and, the next day, resigned her Committee position. 
Pursuant to G.L. c. 41, § 11, after the Committee did not notify the Board within one 
month of the vacancy, and did not take the roll call one week after the election, the Board voted 
to fill the vacancy on July 17, 2013. By that time, the Board had received two letters of interest. 
One of the letters was from a prior member and chairman of the Committee. The other was from 
the complainant. 
At the Board's July 17, 2013 meeting, the Chair motioned to accept the previous 
chairman to the Committee in preference to the complainant. The motion was seconded, and the 
candidate was elected by vote of 2-1. There was no discussion of the candidates prior to the 
vote. This complaint followed. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Accordingly, the law requires that all meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. In relevant part, a "meeting" is defined as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 
3OA, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided 
that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. 
Because the Board is a three-member public body, two members constitute a quorum. 
The complaint alleges that two Board members engaged in deliberation outside of a properly 
posted meeting on the subject of the appointment of a new member to the Committee. The 
allegation stems from the lack of discussion regarding the qualifications of the two candidates 
preceding the vote at issue. The Board denies any outside deliberation by members of either 
body regarding the contested vote, and we do not find any evidence to the contrary. 
The correspondence provided in support of the complaint attempts to offer circumstantial 
evidence of improper deliberation. This material largely fits within the above cited exception to 
the definition of "deliberation," however, and contains little more than the distribution of 
2 
===PAGE 3===
meeting agenda, scheduling of information, and other procedural items permitted by the statute. 
While we acknowledge that the Board's actions suggest that the decision was pre-determined, 
lacking any particular evidence that outside deliberation occurred specifically in this instance, we 
find that a quorum of the Board did not engage in deliberation outside of the July 17, 2013 
meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board and Committee did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions. 
Sincerely ^ 
Mark M. Higgins ^yj 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc. David Kokindo 
Hinsdale Select Board 
Hinsdale Finance Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. BOA, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3 