===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
 
 
January 29, 2021 
 
OML 2021 – 5 
 
 
Paul J. Haverty, Esq. 
Blatman, Bobrowski & Haverty, LLC 
9 Damonmill Square, Suite 4A4 
Concord, MA 01742 
 
By e-mail only:  
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Haverty, 
 
 This office received a complaint from Samuel Chase on May 22, 2020, alleging that the 
Chelmsford Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 21 and you responded, on 
behalf of the Board, by letter dated May 5.  The complaint alleges that i) the Board entered into 
executive session for an improper purpose by discussing the renewal of the Town Manager’s 
contract during a January 27 meeting, ii) such executive session discussions violated the Town 
Charter; and iii) the minutes of the January 27 meeting are inaccurate.  
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the law in the ways alleged.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, the 
complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the Board’s supplemental response 
to our office dated July 14.  In addition, we reviewed the notices and open and executive session 
minutes of Board meetings held on January 27, February 10, February 25, and March 5, as well 
as the employment agreement between the Town of Chelmsford and the Town Manager.   
 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
January 27 at 7:00 P.M.  The notice listed 13 topics, including an executive session to discuss 
“strategy with respect to potential litigation regarding Ledge Road Commercial Trucking,” 
“strategy with respect to collective bargaining with the Firefighters Union,” and “strategy with 
respect to negotiations with the Town Manager regarding a new employment agreement.”  The  
notice then listed the following final open session topic: Vote on New Employment Agreement 
with the Town Manager.     
 
The January 27 meeting was held as planned.  The Board convened in open session at 
7:00 P.M. and made several public service announcements; reviewed and approved an auto 
dealer license and one day liquor license; appointed individuals to the Values and Vision 
Committee; received reports from the Building Commissioner, Town Legal Counsel, Water 
District Superintendent, Department of Public Works Director and the Town Manager; and 
approved meeting minutes.  Vice Chair Patricia Wojtas2 then moved to enter executive session to 
discuss “strategy with respect to potential litigation regarding Ledge Road Commercial 
Trucking, strategy with respect to collective bargaining with the Firefighters Union, and strategy 
with respect to negotiations with the Town Manager regarding a new employment agreement.”  
The Board unanimously voted by roll call to convene in executive session and announced that it 
would reconvene in open session following the conclusion of the executive session.   
 
During the executive session, the Board discussed whether to renew the contract of the 
Town Manager and members commented on the Town Manager’s overall performance.  Board 
member George Dixon made a motion “not to renew the Town Manager’s employment 
agreement” and the Board voted, by majority vote, not to renew the Town Manager’s contract.  
The Board then discussed the results of its vote with the Town Manager, who had since joined 
the executive session, and advised him that he could remain as Town Manager until the end of 
the fiscal year.  Chair Kenneth Lefebvre suggested that the Board “not take a public vote” so as 
to allow the Town Manager to “process this action” taken by the Board.  The Board agreed and 
decided to defer announcing publicly that it had not renewed the Town Manager’s contract.3 
 
At the conclusion of the executive session, the Board reconvened in open session.  The 
open session minutes state the following with respect to the Town Manager’s contract: 
“Selectman Wojtas announced that the Vote was tabled, as negotiations will continue in future 
Executive Sessions.”  The Board then adjourned the meeting.   
 
The Board continued its discussions of the Town Manager’s contract during executive 
session meetings held on February 10, February 25, and March 5.  On March 5, after the Board 
reconvened in open session at the conclusion of its executive session meeting, the Board voted to 
renew the Town Manager’s contract for one year, until June 30, 2021. 
 
 
 
 
2 Ms. Wojtas is still a member of the Board but is no longer Vice Chair. 
3 We note that the Board has released the executive session minutes of the January 27 meeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  A public 
body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the 
Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is 
recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether 
the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.4  Before entering the executive session, the chair must state 
the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 
567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary 
... because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct 
business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was 
proper or improper”).   
 
A public body may convene in executive session to “conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 
2”).  When meeting in executive session, a public body may only address subjects related to the 
narrow executive session purpose the public body cited when entering executive session.  See 
District Attorney for the Northwestern Dist. v. Board of Selectmen of Sunderland, 11 Mass. App. 
Ct. 663, 666 (1981) (executive session may not be used as a blanket reason to deliberate on 
matters other than those pertaining to the specific purpose for which executive session was 
called). 
 
The complaint challenges the propriety of the Board’s January 27 executive session with 
respect to the discussions about the Town Manager’s contract.5  Here, the Board convened in 
executive session pursuant to Purpose 2 and discussed whether to renew the contract of the Town 
Manager.  We find that the Board’s discussion of the Town Manager’s contract generally fit 
within the parameters of executive session Purpose 2, as the discussions focused on whether it 
should renew the contract of the Town Manager.  See OML 2013-47; OML 2011-44.  The 
Board’s references to the Town Manager’s professional competence were directly related to its 
consideration of renewing the contract and were therefore appropriate under Purpose 2.  See 
District Attorney for Northern Dist. v. School Committee of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 568 
(Mass. 2009) (“[w]hile professional competence must first be discussed in an open session, how 
that evaluation will factor into a contract or salary negotiation strategy may be a suitable 
discussion for an executive session”).  Because the Board convened in executive session under 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
5 Although the Board discussed two other matters in executive session during the January 27 meeting, the complaint 
only raises issues with respect to the discussions pertaining to the Town Manager’s contract. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Purpose 2, it was not required, as the complaint seems to suggest, to provide the Town Manager 
with individual notice of the meeting.  See OML 2013-41; OML 2011-41.  Compare G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(1) (the individual to be discussed during a Purpose 1 executive session must be 
notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session 
and has the right to be present during deliberations, to have counsel present, and to speak on his 
own behalf).  We conclude that the Board properly met in executive session and thus did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law.   
 
The Open Meeting Law allows a public body to conduct contract negotiations with 
nonunion personnel in executive session, but does not authorize a public body to approve a 
contract in executive session.  See OML 2013-91; OML 2011-56; OML 2011-44.  Therefore, 
although a public body may reach an agreement on the terms of a contract in executive session, it 
must subsequently vote to approve or ratify such an agreement in open session.  See OML 2011-
28 (finding that school committee violated the Open Meeting Law by voting to approve  
superintendent's contract addendum in executive session).  Here, although the Board did take a 
vote in executive session not to renew the Town Manager’s contract, we find that the Board was 
simply deciding on a course of action with respect to the future employment of the Town 
Manager and was not ratifying or executing a contract.  See OML 2018-146; compare OML 
2012-10 (Board improperly executed contract addendum offering severance payment upon 
completion of Town Manager’s contract in executive session).  As such, we conclude that the 
Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law during the January 27 executive session. 
 
The complaint also alleges that the January 27 open session meeting minutes include an 
inaccurate statement.  Specifically, the complaint maintains that the statement that the Board 
tabled the vote in executive session with respect to the Town Manager’s contract was inaccurate.  
This office reviews meeting minutes to ensure that they accurately reflect the discussions that 
take place during meetings; our office does not review minutes to ensure that the statements 
made during meetings are factually true.  See OML 2020-62; OML 2015-133.  As such, where 
Ms. Wojtas actually made the statement reflected in the minutes, even though it may not have 
been an accurate representation of the vote taken in executive session, we find that the 
minutes of the Board’s January 27 meeting are an accurate summary of the discussions that 
occurred during the open session meeting.   
 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the discussions in executive session violated the Town 
Charter which requires that a vote to remove the Town Manager occur in open session.  The 
Division of Open Government is charged specifically with reviewing complaints to determine 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, thus we decline to review, and 
offer no opinion on, whether any actions taken by the Board could be a violation of the Town 
Charter or town bylaws.  See OML Declination 1-19-16 (Southborough Zoning Board of 
Appeals); OML Declination 3-11-13 (Abington Conservation Commission).   
        
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
      
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  Samuel Chase – By email only:  
 Chelmsford Select Board – By email only:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
