===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
March 1, 2022 
 
OML 2022 - 34 
 
 
Francesse Canty, Esq. 
Director of Human Resources 
337 Broadway 
Everett, MA 02149 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Canty: 
 
This office received a complaint from Steven Fitzgerald on October 5, 2021, alleging that 
the Everett School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on July 30, and former 
Committee Chair Frank Parker responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, by letter 
dated September 30, following an extension of time granted by this office.2  The complaint 
alleges that i) the Committee failed to provide records responsive to a request; and ii) the minutes 
of the Committee meeting held on July 19 are insufficiently detailed because they do not include 
a list of documents used during the meeting.3   
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, the complaint 
filed with our office requesting further review, and the notice and minutes of the Committee 
meeting held on July 19, as well as a video recording of that meeting.4  We find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include in its minutes a list of 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 
2 Because of the volume of complaints that Mr. Fitzgerald has filed with the Everett School Committee and other 
public bodies in Everett, many on the same date and/or raising similar allegations, we have numbered the complaints 
for tracking purposes.  This determination addresses complaint 68. 
3 One member of the Committee is an employee of the Attorney General’s Office.  The complaints contain no 
allegations that are specific to the actions of that individual, and that individual played no role in this offi ce’s 
consideration of the complaint. 
4 A video recording of the Committee meeting held on July 19 is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r8BtLsZtS48. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
documents used during the meeting.  We find that the Committee did not violate the law in the 
other way alleged.   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).    
 
On July 20, the complainant requested a copy of the minutes of the Committee meeting 
held on July 19.  The Committee provided a copy of those minutes to the complainant on July 
30, within the timeframe required by the Open Meeting Law.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c) (minutes 
of an open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft form, shall be made available 
upon request by any person within 10 days).  However, the complaint alleges that the Committee 
failed to provide documents, exhibits, photographs or maps used during the July 19 meeting.  
The Open Meeting Law governs requests for meeting minutes, only.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22.  
Requests for other documents are governed by the Public Records Law.  See G.L. c. 66, § 10.  
Therefore, failure to provide documents other than meeting minutes concerns a potential 
violation of the Public Records Law, but does not violate the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 
2015-17; OML Declination 7-16-20 (Greater Lowell Technical School Committee); OML 
Declination 3-11-15 (Wayland School Committee); OML Declination 8-9-13 (Southwick Board 
of Selectmen).5 
 
The complaint also alleges that the minutes from the Committee meeting held on July 19 
fail to include a list of documents used during the meeting, as required by the Open Meeting 
Law.  The Open Meeting Law does not define what it means for a document to be used at a 
meeting but, at a minimum, it is clear that where a document is physically present, verbally 
identified, and the contents are discussed by the members of a public body during an open 
meeting, it has been “used” for purposes of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2014-12; OML 
2012-42.  Here, the minutes contain the date, time and place of the meeting, the members who 
were present and absent, a summary of the discussions, and the decisions made and actions 
taken, including a record of all votes.  However, the minutes do not contain a list of any 
documents that the Committee used during the meeting.  We find that the School Year 2021-
2022 Calendar and a Memorandum of Agreement between the Everett Teachers’ Association and 
the Committee were documents physically present, verbally identified, and discussed during the 
meeting.  Even though these documents were discussed very briefly, we find that the documents 
constitute a document “used” by the Committee during the meeting and therefore should have 
been separately listed in the minutes.  See OML 2019-46; OML 2017-43.  We note that 
documents and other exhibits used by a public body do not need to be attached to or physically 
stored with the minutes.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to include in the minutes a list of documents used during the July 19 meeting.  We 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
order the Committee to amend the minutes of the July 19 meeting to include a list of documents 
used at the meeting and to certify to this office within thirty (30) days of the date of this letter 
that it has done so.  See 940 C.M.R. 29.07(4).  We also order the Committee’s immediate and 
future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations 
could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Steven Fitzgerald – By email only:  
Everett School Committee c/o Chair Jeanne Cristiano – By email only: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
