===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKI,EY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
February 25, 2013 
OML 2013 - 20 
Gregg Corbo, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint — Carver Board of Selectmen 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Roderick Forrester, dated February 21, 2012, 
alleging that the Carver Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint specifically alleges that the Board failed to "list on the agenda, 
the name of the person, who was appealing their discipline" ahead of the Board's January 9, 
2012 meeting. The complaint was filed with the Board on or about January 9, 2012. The Board 
responded to the complaint by letter dated January 26, 2012. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the January 9, 2012 complaint filed with the Board; the 
Board's January 26, 2012 response; and the February 21, 2012 complaint filed with our office. 
Additionally, we reviewed a letter from Town Administrator Richard LaFond addressed to 
Sargent Michael O'Donnell, dated January 5, 2012. Finally, we also reviewed the notice and 
minutes of the Board's January 9, 2012 meeting. 
FACTS 
On or about December 28, 2011, after conducting an investigation, the Carver Chief of 
Police suspended Police Sergeant Michael O'Donnell for two days for violating the Police 
Department's rules and regulations. Sargent O'Donnell was also a member of the Board of 
Selectmen, and the Police Department had found that he failed to recuse himself from the 
Board's discussion regarding the Town Administrator's contract. Sargent O'Donnell appealed 
his suspension to the Board of Selectmen. Upon receipt of his request, the Board scheduled a 
hearing for January 9, 2012. According to the Board's January 26, 2012 response to the 
complaint, the Board anticipated at the time that Sargent O'Donnell would exercise his right to 
1 
===PAGE 2===
have the matter heard in executive session, pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). 
The notice for the Board's January 9, 2012 meeting included one topic: "Police –
Disciplinary Appeal (Executive Session expected)." On January 5, 2012, Town Administrator 
Richard LaFond provided written notice to Sargent O'Donnell that the Board would be meeting 
on January 9, 2012 to discuss his disciplinary appeal. 
The Board Chair convened the meeting on January 9, 2012, and asked Sargent 
O'Donnell's attorney whether he was requesting an open or executive session for the disciplinary 
hearing. Sargent O'Donnell's attorney requested that the appeal be heard in open session. The 
Board then conducted the hearing in open session and never convened in executive session. 
DISCUSSION  
The Open Meeting Law states, in relevant part, that "[e]xcept in an emergency, in 
addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every 
meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal 
holidays...Notice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the 
date, time, place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will 
be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a 
meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). Where a body anticipates convening an 
executive session, the chair must state, both verbally before entering executive session and in the 
meeting notice, "the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called." See G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(b)(3); OML 2011-15; OML 2011-7.1  
A public body may enter executive—or closed—session for any of ten enumerated 
purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Among the ten purposes is Purpose 1, which allows a public 
body to enter into executive session to "discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or 
mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline 
or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff 
member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). If a public body enters executive session under 
Purpose 1, then it must provide the individual to be discussed with 1) written notice 48 hours 
before the executive session; 2) the right to be present during the meeting; 3) the right to speak 
on his or her own behalf; 4) the right to have counsel or a representative present; and 5) the right 
to make an independent transcript of the meeting. Id. Additionally, the individual has the right 
to request that the meeting be held in open session. Id. 
Here, the Board intended to enter executive session under Purpose 1 to discuss the 
discipline of an individual, namely Sargent O'Donnell. The notice for the Board's January 9, 
2012 meeting included one topic: "Police – Disciplinary Appeal (Executive Session expected)." 
Because the Board planned to enter into executive session pursuant to Purpose 1, it did not have 
to provide the name of the individual to be discussed if it believed that doing so would 
compromise the purpose for the executive session, namely protecting the privacy of that 
I  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gove/ago/openmeeting.  
2 
===PAGE 3===
Sincerely, 
individual. The fact that Sargent O'Donnell's attorney ultimately requested that the discussion 
be held in open session did not create a retroactive obligation to include his name in the meeting 
notice since, at the time the notice was created, the Board Chair did not reasonably anticipate 
having an open session discussion. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to include 
Sargent O'Donnell's name on the meeting notice for its January 9, 2012 meeting. 
We now consider this matter closed. Please contact me if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
J athan Sclarsic 
ssistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Roderick Forrester 
cc: Carver Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3 