===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 24, 2017 
OML 2017-66 
Larry Gomez, Acting Chairman 
Tisbury Board of Selectmen 
51 Spring Street, Box 1239 
Vineyard Haven, MA 02568 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chairman Gomez: 
This office received a complaint from Lynne Fraker, dated March 27, 2017, alleging that 
the Tisbury Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 1, 2017, and the Board 
responded by letter dated March 21, 2017. In her complaint, Ms. Fraker alleges that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by entering executive session without a statutory purpose. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged 
in the complaint. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's 
response, and the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed a 
supplementary letter from the complainant dated April 6, 2017. 
FACTS 
The complaint concerns a Board meeting held on February 27, 2017. The notice for this 
meeting stated that the Board would enter executive session "pursuant to MGL, Chapter 30A, 
Section 21 (a) 3, 6, and 8 to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining and litigation; 
to consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property; and to consider or interview 
applicants for employment or appointment." The Board held the meeting as planned and 
convened in executive session for the reasons listed on the notice. During a portion of the 
executive session, the Board received an update from a preliminary screening committee 
appointed to screen candidates for a harbormaster position. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law permits a public body to enter executive session for any of ten 
enumerated purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One permissible basis for holding an executive 
session is, "[t]o consider or interview applicants for employment of appointment by a 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
preliminary screening committee if the chair declares that an open meeting will have a 
detrimental effect in obtaining qualified applicants; provided, however, that this clause shall not 
apply to any meeting, including meetings of a preliminary screening committee, to consider and 
interview applicants who have passes a prior preliminary screening." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(8) 
("Purpose 8"). "Preliminary Screening" is defined as "the initial stage of screening applications 
conducted by a committee or subcommittee of a public body solely for the purposes of providing 
to the public body a list of those applicants qualified for further consideration or interview." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (emphasis added). 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by convening 
in executive session pursuant to Purpose 8 to receive an update on the preliminary screening 
process. In its response, the Board concedes that this was not a proper discussion under Purpose 
8. Indeed, the Board met as a whole and was therefore not acting as a "committee or 
subcommittee of a public body." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Thus, the Board could not invoke Purpose 8 
for this discussion. See OML 2015-122; OML 2012-103.1 Further, an update on the status of 
the screening process is similarly not protected by Purpose 8. See OML 2016-105 (Purpose 8 
executive session must be convened in order to consider or interview applicants). Accordingly, 
we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged in the complaint.2 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law, We 
order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution 
that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Because 
the portion of the February 27, 2017 executive session addressed in this letter was not held for a 
proper purpose, we order the release to the public of those executive session minutes within 
thirty (30) days of receipt of this letter. The Board may not redact or withhold these minutes or 
any portion thereof based on privilege or any exemption under the Public Records Law. See 
OML 2015-10. The Board may withhold the portions of those minutes which are still protected 
by a valid ongoing executive session purpose. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 To the extent that the complaint alleges that the preliminary screening committee had already decided on a single 
candidate to put forward for the harbormaster position, we note that our in camera review of the executive session 
minutes indicates that the process was ongoing. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Ke 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 
===PAGE 3===
cc: Lynne Fraker 
Jay Grande, Tisbury Town Administrator 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 