===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 6, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 122 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Alexander M. Castro, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
alex@mtclawyers.com 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Castro, 
 
This office received a complaint from Jacquelyn Wehtje on September 9, 2024, alleging 
that the Fitchburg Agricultural Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on or 
about August 7, 2024, and you responded on behalf of the Commission by letter dated August 
23, 2024. The complaint alleges that the Commission entered executive session for an improper 
purpose on August 6, 2024, and inappropriately permitted an individual that was not a member 
of the Commission to attend the August 6, 2024, executive session.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
meeting in executive session for an improper purpose. The Commission did not violate the Law 
in the other way alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Commission’s response, the request for further review of the complaint, a letter 
sent by a Commission Advisor to this office on June 25, 2025, and the revised notice for the 
August 6, 2024, meeting. We also reviewed, in camera, unredacted minutes of the executive 
session held on August 6, 2024. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Commission posted notice for a meeting to be 
held on August 6, 2024; the notice included an executive session “for the purposes of 
considering the purchase, exchange, lease, or value of real property as the Chair declared that an 
open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body in 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
accordance with G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) and not to return to open session upon conclusion.”  
After the open portion of the Commission’s meeting on August 6, 2024, the Commission entered 
executive session. A volunteer Commission advisor, who is not a member of the Commission, 
was permitted to join the executive session. 
 
The executive session minutes have not yet been released to the public; therefore, we 
only summarize their content here. During the August 6, 2024, executive session, the 
Commission discussed a potential collaboration with an entity purchasing land in Fitchburg. 
Neither the Commission nor the City is a party to the land purchase discussed.   
 
On June 25, 2025, a Commission Advisor sent a letter to this office concerning the 
August 6, 2024, executive session. The Advisor explained that although the Commission is not 
involved in the land purchase discussed, the executive session was necessary to protect the 
bargaining position of the entity purchasing land in Fitchburg. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). All meetings of a public body must be conducted in an 
open session unless a closed-door executive session is convened for one of ten permissible 
purposes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). When meeting in executive session, a public body may 
only address subjects related to the narrow executive session purpose the public body cited when 
entering executive session. See Dist. Att’y for N.W. Dist. v. Selectmen of Sunderland, 11 Mass. 
App. Ct. 663, 666 (1981). Pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, one permissible purpose for 
convening in executive session is “[t]o consider the purchase, exchange, lease of value of real 
property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
negotiating position of the public body” (“Purpose 6”). G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a).  
 
Executive session purposes are narrowly construed. The public body bears the burden of 
demons
trating applicability of the claimed executive session purpose. See District Attorney for 
the N. Dist. v. School Comm. Of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 566 (2009). Discussions under 
Purpose 6 must relate directly to the purchase, lease, exchange, or value of real property where 
confidentiality is necessary to protect a public body’s negotiating position. See OML 2022-119; 
OML 2021-62.1 The proper application of Purpose 6 is to protect a public body’s negotiating 
position vis-à-vis other parties to a transaction, not to escape the inconvenience of public 
scrutiny or opposition. See OML 2023-241; OML 2023-81.  
 
Here, the Commission entered executive session under Purpos
 e 6 to discuss a potential 
collaboration with an entity purchasing land in Fitchburg. However, the Commission itself is not 
a party to the transaction. General discussions regarding real property or the use of real property, 
when the public body has no negotiating position to protect, do not fall under Purpose 6. See 
OML 2023-81; OML 2021-103; OML 2016-93; OML 2012-98 (“Potential uses for land and 
whether or not to go ahead with a project are not proper discussions under Purpose 6.”). 
 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Similarly, protecting the negotiating position of an unrelated entity does not fall under Purpose 6. 
By meeting in executive session for an improper purpose, the Commission violated the Open 
Meeting Law.  
 
Lastly, we reject the complainant’s concerns regarding the presence of the Commission’s 
volunte
er advisor at the executive session. Had the executive session been convened for a proper 
purpose, this individual’s presence would have been proper. As we have previously explained to 
the complainant, a public body may at its discretion include additional individuals at an 
executive session, unless including that individual would defeat the purpose of the executive 
session. See OML 2024-7.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by m
eeting in executive session for an improper purpose. We order the Commission’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that future similar 
violations may be viewed as evidence of intent to violate the law. We further order the 
Commission to publicly release the August 6, 2024, executive session minutes. The Commission 
must notify the Attorney General in writing of its compliance with this order within 30 days of 
the date of this letter. See 940 C.M.R. 29.07(4). 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Commission 
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by: Rishab Ramamurthy, Legal Intern 
 
cc: Evan Halstead, Chair, Fitchburg Agricultural Commission  
(via email: AgriculturalCommission@fitchburgma.gov) 
Jacquelyn Wehtje (via email: ) 
Joanna Bilotta, Fitchburg City Clerk (via email: cityclerk@fitchburgma.gov) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
