===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
September  5, 2025 
  
OML 2025 – 136  
 
VIA EMAIL  
  
Ronald Aponte 
Town Administrator 
Town of Brookfield 
6 Central St. 
Brookfield, MA 01506 
 
towna
dministrator@brookfieldma.us 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Town Administrator Aponte:  
 
This office received a complaint from Christopher Kelleher on June 13, 2025, alleging 
that the Brookfield Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1  Mr. Kelleher originally filed his complaint with the Board on April 17 and you 
responded on its behalf on April 28.  The complainant alleges that at the Board’s March 26 
meeting, which he attended remotely as a disability accommodation, the Board (1) did not 
provide the audio feed prior to commencement of the meeting; and (2) improperly muted his 
microphone, preventing him from telling the Board that he wished to record the meeting.2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not
  violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Board’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We 
reviewed minutes, and a recording, of the March 26 meeting.3  Finally, we communicated with 
the complainant via email. 
 
 
 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2025 unless otherwise indicated. 
2 The complaint also alleged that the Board failed to announce that the meeting was being recorded.  However, this 
allegation was withdrawn. 
3 The recording was provided to us by the complainant.  He obtained it either in response to a public records request 
or directly from the Town of Brookfield’s IT department. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  The Board held an in-person meeting on March 26, at 6:00 
p.m.  Prior to the meeting, the complainant was provided with a link to access the meeting 
remotely via Teams, as an accommodation of his disability.  The Teams meeting was opened 
approximately two minutes prior to commencement of the Board meeting.  During this time, no 
audio was provided to Mr. Kelleher.  At 5:59 p.m., approximately 1 minute and 20 seconds into 
the Teams meeting and prior to commencement of the Board’s meeting, the video feed was 
activated.  The Teams recording appears to show a person in the foreground, believed to be a 
member of the Town of Brookfield’s IT department, operating a keyboard and looking into a 
screen, in proximity to the video camera that is recording him and the rest of the Board.  He then 
appears to be talking with members of the Board for approximately 20 seconds, although none of 
this conversation is audible on the recording.  A few seconds after the exchange, the audio was 
activated, seemingly in the middle of the chair’s greeting: “ - evening.  Can you hear me?”  The 
chair announced that the meeting was being recorded and that there was to be no public 
comment.  The complainant remained muted during the entire meeting.  He maintains that 
because he was muted, he was unable to tell the chair that he wished to record the meeting. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it muted itself until 
commencement of the meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement 
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except 
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”).  
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present as well as to 
see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2020-100; 
OML 2018-75; OML 2016-54.4   
  
We have stated that for a meeting to be “open to the public,” as required by the Open 
Meetin
g Law, it must be held in a location that is compliant with the Americans with Disabilities 
Act.  See OML 2024-130; OML 2020-47; OML 2012-49.  Additional reasonable 
accommodations must also be provided to enable a member of the public to attend a meeting of a 
public body, although the specific accommodations that may be required under state and federal 
law will depend on the circumstances.  Mr. Kelleher was provided a Teams link so that he could 
attend the Board’s March 26 meeting remotely as a disability accommodation.   
 
The Board was not required to provide Mr. Kelleher wi
 th remote access to the meeting 
room prior to commencement of the meeting.  As we have previously explained to the 
complainant, under the Open Meeting Law, it is the meeting itself that must be open to the 
public.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (“Except as provided in section 21, all meetings of a public 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
body shall be open to the public.”); OML 2024-261.  The Open Meeting Law requires public 
access to meetings, not to the moments before the meeting when members are waiting for the 
meeting to begin, nor the moments after the meeting when members are gathering their things 
and filing out of the meeting room.  The complainant was given full access to the meeting.  The 
Board did not violate the Law by muting itself until commencement of the meeting. 
 
To the
 extent that the complainant alleges that he must have missed the beginning of the 
meeting because he did not hear a call of the meeting to order, we deny review of this allegation.  
Subject to some exceptions that are not material here,
5 the Open Meeting Law does not require 
the use of any particular language at the commencement of a meeting.  That this chair generally 
opens a meeting by stating the time and announcing that the meeting is being called to order does 
not obligate her to open all meetings in this fashion.  Moreover, there is no evidence that the 
brief exchange between or among the Board and IT staff, which occurred prior to the meeting 
and which is seen but not heard on the recording, constituted deliberation outside of a meeting.  
Mr. Kelleher’s allegation that “Board members were engaging in a debate about [his] remote 
access and/or [his] use of Microsoft Teams before the meeting was officially called to order” 
amounts to speculation.  If anything, it appears that the IT staff member is instructing the Board 
on how to use the remote technology.  Although not required by the Open Meeting Law, we 
encourage the Board to activate the audio and video feed simultaneously prior to commencement 
of the meeting to avoid any appearance of impropriety. 
 
II. The Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it muted the complainant 
during the entirety of the meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow public participation 
during its meetings, but rather provides that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public 
body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.”  
G.L. c. 30A § 20(f).  The Law permits the chair of a public body to decide who may speak at a 
meeting and for how long.  See OML 2021-133; OML 2017-189; OML 2014-23.  Moreover, the 
Open Meeting Law leaves public participation in a remote or hybrid meeting to the discretion of 
the chair, just as it does with a meeting conducted in person.  See OML 2024-63 (declining to 
review allegation that complainant was muted during remote meeting); OML 2021-15 (board did 
not violate Open Meeting Law when it muted complainant during meeting); OML 2021-91 
(board did not violate Open Meeting Law when it muted members of the public and disabled 
chat feature during remote meeting). 
 
In the context of a prior Open Mee
 ting Law complaint, we previously advised Mr. 
Kelleher that it was within the discretion of the chair of a public body to mute him during a 
discussion of an Open Meeting Law complaint he had filed with that public body.  See OML 
2024-261.  As with any other topic, the chair has full discretion to determine whether to allow 
public comment during a discussion of an Open Meeting Law complaint.  Here, however, Mr. 
Kelleher does not allege that he was denied the opportunity to offer comments during the 
meeting.  Rather, he alleges that he was denied the ability to tell the chair that he wished to 
record the meeting, and as a result, was unable to record the meeting, as provided by the Open 
 
5 See, e.g., G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f) (announcement of recording); G.L. 30A, § 21(b) (announcements regarding 
executive session), 940 CMR 29.10(7) (announcement of member participating remotely). 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Meeting Law.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f) (“After notifying the chair of the public body, any person 
may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a public body. . . .”)  
Notifying a public body chair of a desire to record a meeting is most easily done verbally.  
However, we agree with the Board that the Teams platform, including the chat feature, provided 
the complainant with non-verbal ways to signal that he wished to record the meeting.  Therefore, 
we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it muted the complainant 
through the entire meeting.    
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not viol ate the Open Meeting 
Law, as alleged.  We decline to refer this complaint to mediation, as requested by the Board.6  
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
   
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Christopher Kelleher (via email: ) 
 Brookfield Town Clerk (via email:  mseery@brookfieldma.us) 
 Brookf
ield Board of Health (via email: boardofhealth@brookfieldma.us) 
 
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
 
6 See 940 CMR 29.05(9)(a)(“If a complainant files five complaints alleging violations of M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 
through 25, with the same public body or within the same municipality within 12 months, upon the fifth or 
subsequent complaint to that public body or a public body within that municipality within the 12- month period, the 
public body may request mediation with the complainant, at the public body’ s expense, to resolve the complaint.”) 
 
