===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
September 2, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 109 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Kate Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC  
730 Main Street, Suite 1F 
Millis, MA 02054 
kate@mtclawyers.com   
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
This office received a complaint from Susan Munford on April 13, 2020, alleging that the 
Kingston Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 27, and the Board responded 
by letter dated April 6.1 In her complaint, Ms. Munford alleges that the Board posted an 
insufficiently detailed notice for an executive session held on January 21 and that the Board 
falsely stated that an executive session was not held on January 21. 
Following our review, we find that 1) the complaint was timely filed; 2) the Board’s 
January 21 meeting notice was insufficiently detailed; and 3) the Board failed to approve minutes 
for its January 21 executive session in a timely manner. Finally, we find the Board’s failure to 
approve its January 21 executive session minutes in a timely manner to be intentional and order 
all members of the Board to attend Open Meeting Law training. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response 
to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We reviewed a video of the 
Board’s January 21 open session.2 We also reviewed the Board’s January 21 executive session 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 As seen on the video of the January 21 meeting, the Board’s Chair stated at the beginning of the meeting that he 
would invoke his right to recess the meeting and have police officers “clear the room” if there were significant 
“outbursts” by members of the public. Although the Open Meeting Law authorizes a public body to order a person 
who continues to disrupt a meeting to withdraw from the meeting, and to authorize police to remove the disruptive 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
meeting minutes during an in camera review. Finally, we spoke with Ms. Mumford by phone on 
July 15 and we emailed with you on several occasions during June and July 2020.  
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board posted notice for a January 21 meeting,3 which 
began with the following topics: 
5:00 PM - CALL TO ORDER – ROOM 207 
RECESS TO EXECUTIVE SESSION: to return to open session at 6:00 pm in 
room 200, for the purpose of: discussion of litigation strategy.   
6:00 PM – RESUME OPEN SESSION – ROOM 200 
On January 20, Ms. Munford emailed all of the Board’s members as follows: 
All, 
I just read the agenda posted for tomorrow evening’s BOS meeting.  The executive 
session lists that you are discussing litigation.  It does not list which litigation.  
Please correct this error.   Postings are to advise the public of the dealings of the 
Town.  I would recommend that you cancel the meeting, as it is within 48 hours, 
reschedule the meeting and post it appropriately, so that the residents are not in the 
dark. Anything less would be a clear and willful  violation of the Open Meeting 
Law, as this exact situation has already occurred. 
Thank you for your attention to this very important matter. 
Susan Munford 
On January 21, the Board convened at 5:00 p.m. in Room 207 at the Town House. In 
addition to members of the Board, the Board’s Labor Counsel was present. No members of the 
public were present at that time. The Board immediately voted to “go into Executive Session for 
the purpose of discussion of strategy with respect to litigation.” In executive session, the Board 
discussed the terms of a legal settlement offer that the Town later offered to a former town 
employee, Joe Colby. As the Board’s executive session minutes have not been released, we do 
not describe the discussion in detail here.  
At 6:00 p.m., the Board’s Chair convened an open session in Room 200 at the Town 
House. The Chair announced that PACTV was recording the meeting and that financial 
assistance applications were available in the Selectmen’s office and on the town’s website. The 
 
person from the meeting, see G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g), a public body may not remove every single member of the public 
from its meeting, prevent reentry, and then proceed with the meeting. See OML 2020-7. As the January 21 meeting 
remained open to the public, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law  in this regard. However, we strongly 
caution the Board against closing any open session to all members of the public.  
3 We remind the Board that the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations require that “[t]he date and time 
that the notice is posted shall be conspicuously recorded thereon or therewith.” See 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b); OML 
2011-45; OML 2013-9. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Chair then read a prepared statement regarding the Board’s contentious January 16 meeting at 
which the Board had discussed an incident involving two Board members and a Town employee. 
In the course of the statement, the Chair stated that the Board had attempted to hold an executive 
session on January 16, but had cancelled that session when one of the individuals who was a 
subject of the executive session asserted their right to have the session be open to the public. The 
Chair then went on to say:  
Again tonight, we tried to post an executive session meeting to allow the Board to 
discuss the details of the matter, and again, one party invoked their right to hold the 
session in public. It was under explicit advice from Labor Counsel that I cancelled 
the executive session portion of the meeting. It is disingenuous for anyone, 
including member of this Board to suggest that I, or any member of the Board have 
tried to cover up this matter.  
Ms. Munford understood this statement to mean that no executive session had taken place 
on January 21. After a brief recess, the Board moved on to other matters.  
On February 5, Ms. Munford’s attorney emailed her, stating that she had received a new 
offer to settle Ms. Munford’s legal claims against the Town. Based on this information, Ms. 
Munford speculated that the Board had indeed met in executive session on January 21 to 
authorize a new settlement offer.  
On February 6, Ms. Munford emailed the Board’s Chair and asked whether the Board 
held the January 21 executive session. The Chair did not reply.  
On February 11, the Kingston Finance Committee voted to approve a reserve fund 
request to pay for the legal settlement with Mr. Colby which the Board had approved on January 
21. Ms. Munford is a member of the Finance Committee. Although Mr. Colby was not named by 
the Finance Committee as the recipient of the settlement offer, he confirmed his identity to the 
local press in an article which was published on February 21.4  
On February 27, Ms. Munford filed her Open Meeting Law complaint.  
DISCUSSION 
I. The complaint was timely filed. 
 The Board asserts that Ms. Munford’s complaint is untimely and therefore should be 
dismissed without review. We disagree. The Open Meeting Law states that complaints must be 
filed with the public body within 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the 
alleged violation could not have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be 
filed with the public body within 30 days of when the alleged violation could reasonably have 
been discovered. 940 CMR 29.05(3). 
 Here, the Board’s January 21 executive session was held prior to the substantive open 
session. Immediately after convening in open session at 5:00 p.m. in Room 207, the Board voted 
to enter executive session. Then, during the 6:00 p.m. open session in Room 200, the Chair 
 
4 See https://kingston.wickedlocal.com/news/20200221/former-union-leader-confirms-kingston-suit-settlement 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
stated that the executive session had been cancelled. As such, a member of the public who 
attended the brief 5:00 p.m. open session could have reasonably concluded that the Board had 
convened in executive session only to immediately cancel the session. Therefore, filing an Open 
Meeting Law complaint regarding an insufficiently detailed notice for a cancelled executive 
session would have seemed futile. See 2020-53 (“When a public body does not actually 
deliberate on a noticed topic, the public body cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with respect 
to that topic, even if it would have been insufficiently detailed had the public body proceeded 
with its deliberation.”)  
 Ms. Munford deduced on February 11 that the Board had in fact entered executive 
session on January 21 to approve a settlement offer, because the settlement offer was sent to the 
Kingston Finance Committee for approval.5 Ms. Munford filed her complaint on February 27, 
within 30 days of the reasonable discovery of the executive session. We therefore find that Ms. 
Munford’s complaint was timely filed. 
II. The Board’s January 21 meeting notice was insufficiently detailed. 
 A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the 
Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Executive session topics must be described, both 
in the meeting notice and in an announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(b)(3): see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 
567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary 
... because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct 
business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was 
proper or improper”). 
 When convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body should 
identify the litigation matter to be discussed, so long as doing so would not compromise the 
public body’s litigating position. See OML 2016-12; OML 2013-97.6 However, a public body 
need not identify the litigation matter if publicly disclosing it would compromise the purpose for 
the executive session, such as when the body is considering initiating litigation against another 
party. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(3), 21(b)(3); OML 2017-176; OML 2017-87; OML 2015-121; 
OML 2015-87. Although we generally defer to a public body’s assessment of whether the 
inclusion of such information would compromise the purpose for the executive session, a public 
body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for such a claim if challenged. See OML 
2015-14; OML 2012-76.  
 Here, the Board’s meeting notice stated that the Board would enter executive session for 
a “discussion of litigation strategy,” but did not specify the litigation matter. The Board states 
 
5 It is possible that other members of the public would never have discovered that the January 21 executive se ssion 
took place, because the Board’s open session minutes, which were approved on February 18, make no mention of 
convening in open session before entering executive session. Since the Open Meeting Law requires that a public 
body convene in open session before entering executive session, we recommend that public bodies record the 
procedural steps for convening in executive session in the open session minutes rather than the executive session 
minutes. See OML 2020-59. 
6 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
that the litigation matter was not identified due to “inadvertent error.” The Board makes no claim 
that identifying the litigation matter would have compromised the valid purpose for the executive 
session. We therefore find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to identify 
which litigation matter would be discussed.  
III. The Board failed to approve minutes for its January 21 executive session in a timely 
manner.  
 The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes must be reviewed 
and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Open Meeting Law itself does not 
define “timely manner.” However, the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations 
provide that “timely manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 
days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.” 940 
C.M.R. 29.11 (2). Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at 
the next meeting. See OML 2019-39; OML 2014-15; OML 2012-91. The requirement to approve 
meeting minutes in a timely manner applies equally to minutes of open and executive sessions. 
See OML 2020-81. Executive session minutes are essential to the transparency aims of the Open 
Meeting Law, since the public is unable to witness deliberations in executive session. See OML 
2019-133; OML 2012-43. 
 In the course of our investigation of Ms. Munford’s complaint, we reviewed in camera 
the Board’s draft January 21 executive session minutes. As of July 24, the Board had not 
approved these meeting minutes despite the fact that the Board has met dozens of times since 
January 21. Therefore, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
approve meeting minutes for its January 21 executive session in a timely manner.7  
IV. The Board’s failure to approve its January 21 executive session minutes in a timely 
manner was intentional. 
 We must also determine whether the Board’s violation was, as the complainant urges, 
intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public 
body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. 
An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of 
the Law’s requirements or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law. Id. 
 The Board was previously advised by our office in a determination issued on January 25, 
2019, that failure to approve meeting minutes within 30 days or three meetings, whichever 
 
7 We remind the Board that approval of executive session minutes in a timely manner is a separate and unrelated 
obligation from the requirement that executive session minutes be periodically reviewed to determine whether they 
should be released to the public. See OML 2019-115. This initial approval of executive session minutes is to 
approve the minutes as an accurate record of what occurred at a particular executive session and does not mean that 
the minutes are approved for release to the public. See OML 2020-16. 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
comes later, is a violation of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2019-4.8 As the Board has again 
failed to approve meeting minute in a timely manner for a meeting held almost exactly a year 
after that determination was issued, we find the Board’s violation to be intentional. We therefore 
order all members of the Board to attend an Open Meeting Law training webinar provided by our 
office within ninety (90) days of the Board’s receipt of this letter. 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that 1) the complaint was timely filed; 2) the 
Board’s January 21 meeting notice was insufficiently detailed; and 3) the Board failed to approve 
minutes for its January 21 executive session in a timely manner. Finally, we find the Board’s 
failure to approve its January 21 executive session minutes in a timely manner to be intentional.  
 We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and 
caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. Furthermore, we order all 
members of the Board to attend an Open Meeting Law training webinar provided by our office 
within ninety (90) days of the Board’s receipt of this letter. 
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Chase 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Susan Munford (via e -mail:  ) 
 K
ingston Board of Selectmen c/o Chair Richard Arruda (via e- mail: 
 rarruda@kingstonmass.org ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 In OML 2019-4, we found that “the Board did not approve the minutes of its November 28, 2017 meeting until its 
31st meeting thereafter, and 336 days had passed; did not approve its March 9, 2018 minutes until its 22nd meeting, 
thereafter, and 236 days had passed; and did not approve its April 20, 2018 minutes until its 18th meeting, thereafter, 
and 194 days had passed.” 

===PAGE 7===
7 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 