===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Robert Van Campen, Esq. 
City Solicitor 
City Hall 
562 Main Street 
Melrose, MA 02176 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
February 18, 2014 
OML 2014-14 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/aao 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Van Campen: 
This office received two complaints from Edward Kenney, both dated January 21, 2013, 
alleging that the Melrose School Committee (the "Committee") and the Melrose Board of 
Alderman (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The first 
complaint was filed with the Committee on or about December 12, 2012, and alleges that a 
quorum of the Committee deliberated outside of a posted meeting to choose the Committee's 
chair. The Committee responded to the complaint by letter dated January 11, 2013, following an 
extension of time granted by this office. The second complaint was filed with the Board on or 
about December 12, 2012, and alleges that a quorum of the Board deliberated outside of a posted 
meeting to choose the Board's president. The Board responded by letter dated December 19, 
2012. 
Following our review, we find that neither the Committee nor the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the two December 12, 2012 
complaints; the Board's December 19, 2012 response; the Committee's January 11, 2013 
response; and the two January 21, 2013 complaints filed with our office. We reviewed the notice 
and minutes of the Committee's December 11, 2012 meeting and the Board's December 3, 2012 
meeting. Additionally, we reviewed a January 21, 2013 affidavit of Mr. Kenney regarding his 
December 1, 2012 conversation with Mayor Robert Dolan. We also reviewed a February 13, 
2013 email from Committee member Carrie Kourkoumelis addressed to our office and a 
February 14, 2013 letter from the Committee addressed to our office. Finally, on October 22, 
2013 we interviewed by telephone Committee Chair Kristin Thorp and Board President William 
Forbes. 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
School Committee 
The Committee is a seven-member public body, thus four members constitute a quorum. 
During the Committee's November 14, 2012 meeting. Chair Kristin Thorp publicly announced 
her intention to run for re-election as Chair. According to Chair Thorp, she had no conversations 
with any Committee members regarding her election outside of a posted Committee meeting. 
During the Committee's December 11, 2012 meeting, Committee member Margaret Driscoll 
nominated Ms. Thorp for the position of chair. Committee member Kourkoumelis then 
nominated herself for the position. After Ms. Kourkoumelis spoke in favor of her own 
candidacy, the Committee voted 5-1 to re-elect Ms. Thorp. The Committee asserts in a February 
14, 2013 letter, written in response to a document request from our office, that there were no 
emails or other written correspondence between Committee members regarding the election. 
Board of Aldermen 
The Board is an eleven-member public body, thus six members constitute a quorum. 
Sometime in September 2012, Board member William Forbes decided that he would run for 
President of the Board after a fellow Board member approached him and suggested he consider 
running. Between September and December 2012, Mr. Forbes spoke with each of the Board 
members to let them know he would be running for President for the next term and to ask that 
they consider his candidacy. He received expressions of support from three members. 
During the December 3, 2012 Board meeting, a Board member nominated Mr. Forbes for 
chair. No other nominations were received. Because only one candidate was nominated, there 
was no discussion, and Mr. Forbes was elected. In an interview with our office, Mr. Forbes 
stated that he did not speak to Board members immediately prior to the meeting and did not 
collect votes among his colleagues to ensure his election. He also noted that in his 10 years on 
the Board, the practice had been that candidates running for President reached out to the Board's 
members to inform the members of that person's candidacy. 
Mr. Kenney filed the present complaint after a December 1, 2012 conversation with 
Mayor Robert Dolan during which, according to Mr. Kenney, Mayor Dolan explained that the 
process for choosing a president of the Board of Alderman is for candidates to approach the other 
Board members outside of meetings to advocate for their candidacy. Mr. Kenney states that 
Mayor Dolan further suggested the same process might be followed by the School Committee. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law defines "deliberation," in relevant part, as "an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A public body 
may only deliberate during a meeting, at which a quorum of the public body is physically present 
and to which the public has access. Id,; G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(a). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
We find no evidence that the Committee deliberated outside of a meeting before it elected 
Kristin Thorp as its chair on December 11, 2012. Ms. Thorp announced her intention to run 
during a November Committee meeting, and assured our office that she did not have any 
conversations with other Committee members prior to the election. We credit her assurances and 
find no other evidence that the Committee deliberated outside of a meeting. 
Whether the Board engaged in deliberation is less clear. It requires consideration of two 
factors: first, did President Forbes' communications with Board members concern "public 
business within the public body's jurisdiction"; and second, did those communications constitute 
an inappropriate serial communication with a quorum of the Board. 
It can be challenging to determine whether political statements - made by or for a 
candidate seeking a leadership position or office - concern "public business" within the relevant 
public body's jurisdiction. In the past, we have determined that statements made by public body 
members "for political purposes that do not involve matters presently or likely to come under 
consideration by the public body" are not public business within the jurisdiction of the body. 
OML 2012-64. Thus, a letter of support for a finance committee chair running for selectman did 
not constitute deliberation despite being signed by a quorum of the finance committee. Id. The 
finance committee simply did not have a role to play in electing the town's board of selectmen. 
In contrast, discussions about the public body's own leadership do concern public 
business within that body's jurisdiction. OML 2013-27; OML 2011-38.1 Public body members 
must vote to elect someone as the body's chair, for example. Therefore, President Forbes' 
communications with Board members concerning his desire to serve as Board president involved 
public business within the Board's jurisdiction. 
But that is not the end of the inquiry. Those communications do not constitute 
deliberation within the meaning of the Open Meeting Law unless they occurred among a quorum 
of the Board. President Forbes acknowledged contacting a quorum of the Board members about 
his candidacy, but he contacted the members individually and over the course of three months. 
Serial communications with a quorum cannot, of course, be used to circumvent the intent of the 
Open Meeting Law. McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008); see also OML 2013-27; 
OML 2013-2; OML 2012-110; OML 2012-10. But here, the communications were sporadic and 
conducted over a significant period of time. They do not appear to have been conducted 
systematically in an effort to circumvent the law. Moreover, in an interview with our office, 
President Forbes stated that he did not speak to a quorum of Board members in the days 
immediately prior to the meeting and did not collect votes among his colleagues to ensure his 
election. He did not know on the day of the meeting whether he would be elected or whether 
anyone else would be nominated. On balance, the evidence does not support a finding that the 
Board deliberated outside of a meeting. 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
While we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law, we note that the 
better and more transparent approach is the one taken by Chair Thorp: announce one's candidacy 
during a public meeting and refrain from private campaigning, which could lead to improper 
deliberation or could at least create the appearance of an election process that is undertaken out 
of public view. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that neither the Board nor the Committee violated 
the Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this letter, 
please do not hesitate to contact our office at (617) 963-2540. 
Sincerely, 
Amy L. Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: Melrose School Committee 
Melrose Board of Aldermen 
Edward Kenney 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c), A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 