===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 10, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 239 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Ryan Clemens, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
ryan@mtclawyers.com 
 
Kate Feodoroff, Esq.  
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
kate@mtclawyers.com 
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorneys Clemens and Feodoroff: 
 
This office received a complaint from Daniel Strautman on August 2, 2024,
1 alleging that 
the Hanson Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on June 4, and you responded on behalf of 
the Board by letter dated June 21. The complaint alleges that, on May 6, the Board deliberated 
regarding amendments to a warrant article without having included this topic on a meeting 
notice.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, the request for further review, the minutes of the Board’s May 6 discussion 
and the minutes of the Town’s May 6 Town Meeting. We also reviewed an audio recording of 
the Board’s May 6 discussion and portions of a video recording of the May 6 Town Meeting.
2 
Finally, we communicated with counsel for the Board by email and telephone.3 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 An audio recording of the Board’s May 6 discussion may be found at https://youtu.be/6uCHZy_WukE. A video 
recording of the May 6 Town Meeting may be found at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KH9drDItlbg. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you collectively and in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Town of Hanson scheduled a Special and Annual 
Town Meeting to be held at 6:30 p.m. on Monday, May 6 in the auditorium of the Hanson 
Middle School located at 111 Liberty Street in Hanson. On April 10, the Board posted notice 
informing the public that “some and/or all members of the Hanson Planning Board may attend 
the Annual Town Meeting to witness and/or offer evidence . . . [and that] Planning Board 
members may attend on May 6 and 7, 2024, or any other day designated should the Annual 
Town Meeting be continued or rescheduled.”
4 
 
On May 6, Board members gathered in the vestibule of the auditorium where Town 
Meeting was held and at 6:30 p.m. Board Chair Joseph Campbell called to order a meeting of the 
Board. The meeting was brief, lasting only four minutes. During the meeting Chair Campbell 
informed the Board that he would be proposing to Town Meeting amended language for Article 
17 of the warrant and that he was seeking the Board’s support in doing so. Thereafter, Chair 
Campbell read aloud his proposed amendment of Article 17 and the Board voted in favor of 
supporting Chair Campbell’s amendment. The meeting was adjourned at 6:34 p.m. Due to a 
large number of attendees entering the auditorium, Town Meeting was called to order 13 minutes 
late at 6:43 p.m.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in limited circumstances, “all meetings of a 
public body shall be open to the public.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). Except in an emergency, “a public 
body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The Open Meeting Law defines 
“meeting,” with limited enumerated exceptions, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18.
5 One exception to the definition 
of “meeting” is “a session of a town meeting convened under section 9 of chapter 39 which 
would include the attendance by a quorum of a public body at any such session.” Id. As such, it 
has been the Attorney General’s longstanding interpretation that the Open Meeting Law does not 
reach any aspect of Town Meeting. See OML 2022-97; OML 2016-126; Attorney General’s 
Open Meeting Law Guide at 9.6,7 We continue to note that the Attorney General’s stance that 
this office will not investigate allegations of improper deliberation during sessions of Town 
Meeting “is a matter of interpretation and future Attorneys General may choose to apply the 
Open Meeting Law in such situations.” Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law Guide at 9. 
 
 
4 The notice further states that it “is being published to conform with 940 CMR 29.00 [the Attorney General’s Open 
Meeting Law regulations].” We note that the notice likely would not comply with the requirements of the Open 
Meeting Law where it did not include a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.” G.L. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b).   
5 “Deliberation” is defined as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, 
between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
7 The Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law Guide may be accessed at https://www.mass.gov/doc/2023-guide-
with-ed-materials/download. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The complaint alleges that on Monday, May 6 the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by discussing and voting to approve Chair Campbell’s proposed amendment to Article 17 
without having included this topic on the notice the Board posted informing the public that 
Board members might attend the Special and Annual Town Meeting that day. The Board asserts 
that it did not violate the Open Meeting Law where the discussions occurred during Town 
Meeting and our office interprets the Open Meeting Law as not reaching any aspect of Town 
Meeting. The Board also explains that Chair Campbell began considering proposing an 
amendment to Article 17 over the weekend preceding the Monday Town Meeting and decided 
definitively to offer an amendment Monday afternoon. Finally, in the request for further review, 
the Complainant points out that the Board’s meeting—held from 6:30 p.m., the time Town 
Meeting was scheduled to start, until 6:34 p.m.—concluded nine minutes prior to the Moderator 
calling Town Meeting to order at 6:43 p.m.  
 
Here, the Board’s brief discussion occurred publicly during the time scheduled and 
posted 
for Town Meeting in the vestibule of the auditorium. Although Town Meeting had not yet 
been called to order, we nonetheless find that the Board’s discussion fell within the Open 
Meeting Law’s exception pertaining to town meeting. Therefore, we find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law. We caution the Board that deliberations that occur outside of 
Town Meeting must occur during a meeting for which proper notice has been posted as outlined 
above. See OML 2017-165 (finding that an email sent to a quorum of a body regarding a matter 
to be addressed at town meeting did not fall within the town meeting exclusion to the definition 
of “meeting” where the email was sent the day before the town meeting). 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
cc: Hanson Planning Board c/o Antonio De Frias, Town Planner  
(via email: tdefrias@hanson-ma.gov)  
Elizabeth Sloan, Town Clerk (via email: Townclerk@hanson-ma.gov) 
Daniel Strautman (via email: ) 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 