===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAICLEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
December 19, 2014 
OML 2014-150 
Donnalyn B. Lynch Kahn, City Solicitor 
City of Newton Law Department 
1000 Commonwealth Avenue 
Newton Centre, MA 02459 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Lynch Kahn: 
This office received a complaint from Emily Costello of the Newton TAB on September 
16, alleging that the Newton School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint alleges that the Committee; 1) failed to post notice 
more than 48 hours prior to its July 3 and July 11 meetings; 2) held an improper emergency 
meeting on July 24; 3) failed to state a permissible executive session purpose in the notice for its 
July 3 and July 11 meetings; and 4) failed to create sufficiently detailed minutes for the three 
meetings at issue. The complaint was filed with the Committee on August 14 and the Committee 
responded by letter dated September 11. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in all 
of the ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the 
Committee, the Committee's response, and the complaint filed with our office. We also 
reviewed the notices for the Committee's July 3, July 11, and July 24 meetings. Additionally, 
we reviewed the original and revised minutes of the Committee's July 3, July 10, and July 24 
executive sessions. The Committee publicly released the original minutes of these meetings on 
July 25 and released amended minutes on October 27. 
FACTS 
On July 1, the Committee filed notice with the City Clerk for a Committee meeting to be 
held on July 3 at 8:00 AM. The City Clerk stamped the notice as received and posted it at 1:14 
PM. The notice listed the location as "TBA." The notice stated that the Committee "will hold an 
1 All dates refer to the year 2014. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
executive session.. .for the purpose of discussing strategy related to collective bargaining." On 
July 2 at 9:30 AM, the Committee revised the notice to include the meeting location. During the 
executive session on July 3, the Committee discussed the school superintendent's recent 
graduation speech and how portions of the speech appeared to be similar to a prior speech 
delivered by Governor Deval Patrick. The superintendent then came into the executive session 
to discuss the issue with the Committee. The Committee decided that each Committee member 
would further consider the issue and that the Committee would meet again to consider further 
action. The original approved minutes of this executive session state only that, "[a] personnel 
matter was discussed." The revised minutes, drafted in response to the present Open Meeting 
Law complaint and approved by the Committee on October 27, describe the meeting in detail 
and include a list of the documents and exhibits used during the meeting. 
On July 9, the Committee filed notice with the City Clerk for a Committee meeting to be 
held on July 11 at 8:00 AM in executive session "for the purpose of discussing a personnel 
matter." The City Clerk stamped the notice as received and posted it at 1:41 PM. During the 
executive session, the Committee members further discussed the superintendent's speech and 
discussed options for moving forward, including an appropriate remedy, focusing on different 
levels of potential discipline and timing of the potential discipline. The Committee agreed to 
hold a third meeting in executive session to articulate a formal response to the superintendent 
and for a final discussion on a remedy. The original approved minutes of this executive session 
state only that, "[a] personnel matter was discussed." The revised minutes, drafted in response to 
the complaint and approved by the Committee on October 27, describe the meeting in detail. 
On July 23, the Newton South High School student paper published a story about the 
controversy regarding the superintendent's speech. On July 24, the superintendent contacted the 
Committee requesting that the Committee take action on the issue and make it public. The Chair 
considered swift action on the superintendent's request important for the benefit of the public. 
On July 24, the Committee filed notice with the City Clerk for an emergency executive session 
Committee meeting to be held on July 24 at 12:15 PM. The City Clerk stamped the notice as 
received and posted it at 11:27 AM. The notice listed the purpose of the executive session 
discussion as "discussion of personnel matter." During the executive session, the Committee 
discussed and approved fining the superintendent one week's salary. The Committee also 
drafted a statement to be made public. The original approved minutes of this executive session 
state only that, "[a] personnel matter was discussed." The revised minutes, drafted in response to 
the complaint and approved for public release by the Committee on October 27, describe the 
meeting in detail. 
D1CUSSION 
1. The Committee Failed to Post Timely Notices for its July 3 and July 11 Meetings. 
Except in an emergency, a public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). The notice must state the date, time, and place of such meeting and include a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting. Id. The notices for 
the Committee's July 3 and July 11 meetings were posted fewer than 48 hours before those 
2 
===PAGE 3===
meetings. Additionally, the notice for the July 3 meeting failed to list the location of the meeting 
at least 48 hours prior to the meeting. In response to the complaint, the Committee explains that 
the Chair did not understand that posting a timely notice was necessary to convening a meeting. 
The Chair now fully understands that the 48 hour requirement is rigid and a minimum 
requirement for notification. We are encouraged by the Committee's acknowledgment of this 
failure and commitment to following the law's notice requirements in the future. 
2. The Committee Failed to Cite an Appropriate Purpose for its Executive Sessions on July 
3. July 11, and July 24. 
A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. 
c. 3 OA, § 21(a). The Committee must cite in the meeting notice, and prior to entering into 
executive session, the specific executive session purpose that it intends to invoke to justify its 
executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). One permissible purpose for executive session 
allows a public body to enter into executive session to discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or 
litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 
3"). The notice for the Committee's July 3 meeting stated that the Committee, "will hold an 
executive session.. .for the purpose of discussing strategy related to collective bargaining." 
While this is a valid purpose for an executive session, the Committee did not discuss topics that 
fit within the purpose.2 During the executive session, the Committee discussed the school 
superintendent's graduation speech and how portions of the speech appeared to be similar to a 
speech delivered by Governor Deval Patrick. This subject would have been appropriate under a 
different executive session purpose that allows a public body to discuss "the reputation, 
character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an 
individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, 
a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). 
However, the Committee failed to cite this purpose. We therefore find that the Committee's July 
3 meeting notice did not comply with the Open Meeting Law. 
Additionally, the notices for the Committee's July 11 and July 24 meetings stated that the 
Committee would be meeting in executive session to discuss "a personnel matter." The law does 
not contain an executive session purpose for general discussion of personnel matters. See OML 
2014-42; OML 2011-9.3 Executive session Purpose 1 may have been appropriate to cite for 
aspects of the discussion that occurred on these two meeting dates, but that purpose is not so 
broad as to cover all personnel matters. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1); OML 2014-42; OML 2011-
9. Furthermore, because the Committee did not cite that purpose or any other enumerated 
2 In response to the complaint, the Committee explains that, in recent history, the Committee had entered into 
executive session only to discuss strategy related to collective bargaining, so the chair simply included the language 
that had been used for prior executive sessions. We note that, even if the Committee had entered into executive 
session to discuss collective bargaining, the notice would have been insufficiently detailed because the Committee 
failed to include additional detail such as the name of the union or bargaining unit that the Committee would be 
discussing. See OML 2013-129, OML 2013-91 and OML 2012-39. This information should be included if doing 
so would not compromise the purpose for the executive session. G.L c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
purpose for holding an executive session, we find that the notice for these two executive sessions 
also did not comply with the Open Meeting Law. 
In response to the complaint, the Chair states that he understands that the Committee 
must identify the statutory purpose for its executive session in its meeting notice and must state 
that purpose prior to entering into executive session. We are encouraged by this commitment to 
future compliance. Furthermore, while we find that these three executive sessions were not 
properly noticed, we note that the amended minutes of these meetings have since been released 
to the public. We find this was appropriate remedial action. 
3. The Committee Held an Improper Emergency Meeting on July 24. 
Except in an emergency, a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). An emergency is "a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances 
demanding immediate action." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. In an emergency, a public body shall post 
notice as soon as reasonably possible prior to such meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
On July 24, the superintendent contacted the Committee to request that the Committee 
take action on the issue and make it public. The Chair considered swift action on the 
superintendent's request to be in the public interest. The Committee posted a notice about 45 
minutes before its July 24 meeting. Although the superintendent requested an immediate 
response from the Committee and the story was being investigated by the media at the time, we 
find there was no valid basis for an emergency meeting. The matter was not sudden or generally 
unexpected as the Committee had been discussing the topic for several weeks. Additionally, the 
circumstances did not demand immediate action. The Commiltee could have waited 48 hours to 
notice a meeting before taking action and releasing a statement. If the Committee was under 
pressure to immediately respond to requests for a statement, the Chair could have issued a 
statement deferring the matter until the Committee could meet following a properly posted 
notice. Because there was no valid emergency basis for this meeting, we find that the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law. We note that the amended minutes of this meeting have been 
released to the public and find this was appropriate remedial action. 
4. The Committee Failed to Create Sufficient Minutes of its July 3, July 11, and July 24 
Meetings. 
A public body must create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
votes. G.L. c. 3 OA, § 22(a). A summary need not be a transcript of the discussion, however 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See 
OML 2013-14; OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. Here, the Committee's original approved 
minutes for each executive session stated only that, "[a] personnel matter was discussed." This 
clearly was not a sufficiently detailed summary. Additionally, the minutes did not include lists 
4 
===PAGE 5===
of the documents used by the Committee during the executive session, nor did they record roll 
call votes for any actions taken. 
Following a conversation with our Office and in response to the complaint, the 
Committee revised the minutes of the three executive sessions during its October 27 meeting. 
The revised minutes contain a sufficiently detailed summary of the Committee's discussions. 
Additionally, the July 3 minutes include a list of the documents used by the Committee during 
that executive session. We find this was appropriate remedial action. 
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post timely 
notices for its July 3 and July 11 meetings; by failing to include the meeting location in its July 3 
meeting notice; by holding an improper emergency meeting on July 24; by failing to state a 
proper purpose for its executive sessions on July 3, July 11, and July 24; and by failing to create 
complete and sufficiently detailed minutes for its July 3, July 11, and July 24 executive sessions. 
We commend the Committee for acknowledging many of these violations in response to the 
complaint and taking corrective steps, including revising the minutes of its three executive 
sessions and releasing them to the public. In addition to the remedial action already taken by the 
Committee, we order the Committee's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law and caution the Committee that a similar future violation may be considered evidence of an 
intentional violation of the Law. 
We now consider this matter closed. This determination does not address any other 
complaints that may be pending before this office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact 
this office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
cc; Newton School Committee 
Jesse Floyd, Newton TAB 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
5 