===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 6, 2017 
OML 2017-36 
Robert Van Campen, City Solicitor 
City of Melrose 
City Hall, 562 Main Street 
Melrose, MA 02176 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Van Campen: 
This office received a complaint from Gerry Mroz, dated December 1, 2016, alleging that 
the Melrose School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on September 23, 2016, and 
the Committee responded by letter dated September 27, 2016. In his complaint, Mr. Mroz 
alleges that the Committee created a working group that did not post notice of its meetings. 
Following our review, we find that the working group and its subcommittees are public 
bodies subject to the Open Meeting Law. Accordingly, we find that they violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to comply with the law's requirements. In reaching a determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response, and the request for further review 
filed with our office. We also reviewed the minutes of Committee meetings held on December 
8, 2015 and August 23, 2016. Finally, we reviewed a supplementary e-mail from the Melrose 
City Solicitor dated March 1, 2017.' 
We find the facts as follows. In July 2015, Melrose School Superintendent Cyndy 
Taymore introduced the concept of transitioning to a competency-based learning model during a 
summer retreat for the school district administrative team. On December 3, 2015, the 
Superintendent held a public forum on this subject to gauge community interest. The Committee 
held a meeting on December 8, 2015, during which the Superintendent presented the idea of 
creating a working group to study a potential transition to a competency-based education model. 
1 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
The Committee unanimously voted to create the Task Force, called Competency Based 
Education Task Force (the "Task Force"), charged with presenting a report to the Committee by 
June 2016. Following this meeting, the Superintendent sought individuals to participate. The 
Task Force consisted of 20 individuals, including school district staff, parents, and community 
stakeholders. The Task Force held meetings on February 8, March 21, April 11, and June 25, 
2016. The Task Force did not post notice for these meetings and did not keep minutes. The 
Task Force also created subcommittees with defined tasks; these subcommittees also did not post 
notice of meetings and also did not keep minutes. During a Committee meeting held on August 
23, 2016, certain Task Force members updated the Committee on the group's progress. To date, 
the Task Force has not presented a final report to the Committee. 
DISCUSSION 
A "public body" subject to the Open Meeting Law is any "multiple-member board, 
commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any 
county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose." G.L. c, 30A, § 18. The Open Meeting Law 
defines a "subcommittee" as "any multiple-member body created to advise or make 
recommendations to a public body." Id. The Supreme Judicial Court recognized an exemption 
to the Open Meeting Law in Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991). 
In Connelly, the Court held that where an individual public official creates a committee to advise 
that person on a decision that he or she has the sole authority to make, that committee is not 
subject to the Open Meeting Law. Connelly, 409 Mass. at 235. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Task Force and its subcommittees are subject to the 
Open Meeting Law, and that the bodies violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post notices 
of meetings. The Committee contends that the Task Force was created at the discretion of the 
Superintendent, and it and its subcommittee therefore fall within the Connelly exception. While 
the Superintendent made the appointments to the Task Force, the fact that she chose the Task 
Force members is not dispositive. The Superintendent made the appointments after the 
Committee voted to authorize its creation. Had the Superintendent created the Task Force of her 
own volition, the body would likely have fit within the Connelly exception because it would 
have been created by an individual public official to advise her on a decision that she retained the 
sole authority to make—that is, making a recommendation on competency-based education to 
present to the Committee. See OML 2015-93; OML 2014-56.2 The distinction here, however, is 
that it was the Committee that voted to create the Task Force during its December 8, 2015 
meeting. Therefore, because a public body ordered the creation of the Task Force, rather than an 
individual public official, the Task Force does not fall within the Connelly exception. See OML 
2016-102. Based on the foregoing, we find that the Task Force and its subcommittees are public 
bodies subject to the Open Meeting Law, and we find that they violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to post notice of their meetings. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
We take this opportunity to remind the Task Force of its obligations under the Open 
Meeting Law going forward. Notice of every meeting must be posted "at least 48 hours prior to 
such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays" and every notice shall include 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
"the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L c. 30A, § 20(b). A public body is also 
required to "create and maintain minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting 
forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on 
each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and 
actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Finally, 
all members of a public body must review the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Guide and 
regulations and certify in writing that they have reviewed these materials.3 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Task Force is a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law, and thus violated the Law by failing to comply with its requirements. We 
order immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar 
future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. While the present 
complaint concerned only the failure to post notice of its meetings, we order the Task Force and 
its subcommittees to create minutes for all previous meetings to the best of their ability, through 
whatever means are available, including the memories and individual notations of the attendees. 
Compliance with this order should occur within sixty (60) days of receipt of this letter. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
cc: Melrose School Committee 
Gerry Mroz 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. e. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 The Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Guide can be found here: 
http://www.mass.gov/ago/docs/government/oml/oml-guide.pdf. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 