===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
June 3, 2019
OML 2019-58
Norfolk County Commission 
c/o Francis Hegarty 
Norfolk County Director 
614 High Street, Suite 201 
PO Box 310 
Dedham, MA 02027
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Mr. Hegarty:
This office received two complaints from Marguerite Lee, Second Assistant Register 
of Deeds in Norfolk County, on October 2, alleging that the Norfolk County Commission (the 
“Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaints 
were originally filed with the Commission on or about August 9, and you responded to the 
complaints, on behalf of the Commission, in separate letters dated August 23. In her first 
complaint, Ms. Lee alleges that, during its July 11 meeting, the Commission convened an 
executive session for an improper purpose; failed to post the topic on the meeting notice; and 
failed to provide the public with sufficient detail about the topic at the meeting.2 In her 
second complaint, Ms. Lee alleges that the reasons for the executive session on July 18 “were 
not valid” and a portion of the minutes are inaccurate.3 Ms. Lee also alleges that two topics
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018, unless otherwise indicated.
2 This complaint contains similar allegations for the Commission’s May 2 meeting. Complaints alleging 
violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the alleged violation. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). We find the allegations regarding the May 2 meeting to be untimely and we decline to 
review them.
3 Ms. Lee also alleges that the minutes fail to reflect the presence of public officials who are not members of the 
Commission; the minutes-taker was not in the meeting room during one of the July 18 executive sessions; and 
that the Commission’s vote to enter executive session on July 11 and July 18 was not seconded. Even if true, 
none of these allegations would constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law. As such, we decline to review 
them. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners); OML Declination 
5-21-12 (Hampden-Wilbraham Regional School Committee).
o

===PAGE 2===
listed on the Commission’s July 25 meeting notices lacked sufficient detail and that the 
Commission did not allow public comment on the topics at the meeting.
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to list an executive session topic on its July 18 meeting notice; by failing to provide 
sufficient detail regarding the executive sessions during the July 11 and July 18 meetings; and 
by creating insufficient minutes of its July 11 and July 18 meetings. We do not find that the 
Commission violated the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Commission’s responses to the 
complaint, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review. We reviewed 
the notices, open and executive session minutes of the Commission meetings held on July 11 
and July 18, as well as the notice and minutes of the Commission’s July 25 meeting. Finally, 
we reviewed communications sent from Commission counsel to our office on May 10 and 
May 21, 2019.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. During its July 11 meeting, the Commission convened in 
executive session, which was not listed on the meeting notice. According to the meeting 
minutes, the Commission voted to enter executive session “to discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining or litigation, the chair having stated that an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the County, to return to open 
session prior to adjournment.” During the executive session, the Commission discussed a 
July 5 letter of complaint sent to the Commission from a County employee. The Commission 
Chair had received a copy of this letter but had not reviewed it prior to posting notice of the 
meeting, and therefore did not list it as a topic on the notice. According to the Commission, 
the other Commissioners had not received a copy of this letter until the day of the meeting. 
Based on this letter and discussions between the employee and the County Director, the 
Commission believed the employee was threatening a lawsuit against the County. Although 
not reflected in the meeting minutes, leading up to the executive session, a member of the 
audience raised the issues cited in the letter. Accordingly, the Commission convened in 
executive session to discuss the letter and to attempt to defuse the conflict.
The Commission convened in executive session twice on July 18, which was again not 
listed on the meeting notice, and discussed the same July 5 letter. According to the meeting 
minutes, the Commission voted to enter executive session “to discuss strategy with respect to 
possible litigation, the chair having stated that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect 
on the litigating position of the County, to return to open session prior to adjournment.” Later 
during the July 18 meeting, after having returned to open session to discuss other topics, the 
Commission discussed a proposed policy that was related to the issues raised in the July 5 
letter. Although the meeting minutes do not reflect it, the Chief Information Officer spoke 
about the proposed policy. The employee who had sent the July 5 letter also spoke about the 
policy and made additional statements that led the Commission to convene in executive 
session again, this time with the employee, to continue the discussion. The Commission cited 
to the same purpose as the prior executive session held earlier in the meeting. On October 29,
2

===PAGE 3===
counsel for the employee sent a letter to the Commission, outlining the employee’s concerns 
again and advised the Commission that he was asked to “take the necessary steps to protect 
his interests.” Since that time, Commission counsel and the employee’s counsel have 
communicated on this matter, but no suit has been filed.
At the July 25 meeting, the Commission discussed the County’s internet technology 
policy, which was an ongoing topic of recent Commission meetings. The meeting notice 
listed two related topics, “Work with County Owned Buildings Policy” and “Reorganization 
of IT Department Recommendation.” Under “Work with County Owned Buildings Policy,” 
the County Director offered a draft policy for the Commission’s consideration and approval. 
The Chief Information Officer spoke and provided his comments on the draft policy. 
Following the approval of certain warrants, the County Director provided a document titled 
“Reorganization of the IT Department” to which the Chief Information Officer provided 
additional comments. The Commission approved both documents.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). A public body may enter executive session provided that it has first 
convened in open session, that a majority of the members of the body have voted to go into 
executive session, and that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into 
the minutes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b); OML 2014-94.4 Executive session topics must be 
described, both in the meeting notice and in an announcement during open session prior to 
convening in executive session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also 
District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm, of Way land. 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] 
precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that 
is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in 
private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or 
improper”).
One purpose for executive session permits a public body to discuss “the reputation, 
character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an 
individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought 
against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) 
(“Purpose 1”). Public bodies may meet in executive session under Purpose 1 to review Open 
Meeting Law complaints filed against the body. See OML 2015-105; OML 2013-82; OML 
2012-119; OML 2011-6. A public body may also convene in executive session “to discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”). When convening in executive session
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body must identify the nonunion personnel with whom it will 
be negotiating or the litigation matter it will discuss, if doing so will not compromise the 
lawful purpose for secrecy. See OML 2017-53; OML 2016-43; OML 2016-12; OML 2013- 
151.
I. Although the Executive Session Discussions Fell Within Permissible Purposes, the
Commission Failed to List the Executive Sessions on its July 18 Meeting Notice
and Failed to Adequately Describe the Topic to be Discussed.
The complainant alleges that the Commission convened in executive session on July 
11 and July 18 even though no executive session was listed on either meeting notice. Notices 
must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.” hi Although we credit the Chair’s account that he had not reviewed the July 5 
letter prior to posting notice of the July 11 meeting, and therefore did not anticipate discussing 
it during the meeting until it was brought up by somebody else, we cannot conclude the same 
for the Commission’s failure to list it on the notice for a subsequent meeting held on July 18. 
The topic was a matter of conversation between the employee and the County Director during 
this timeframe. Indeed, the County Director presented a proposed policy during this meeting 
regarding information technology that was related to the underlying issues in the July 5 letter. 
We conclude that the Commission Chair should have reasonably anticipated a discussion of 
this topic and therefore should have listed it on the July 18 meeting notice. Accordingly, we 
find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by pursuing two separate executive 
sessions on this topic at the July 18 meeting even though they were not listed on the meeting 
notice. Although we find that the July 11 executive session was unanticipated and therefore 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law, we remind the Commission that in those 
circumstances, public bodies are encouraged to postpone discussion of such topics until 
proper notice can be given to the public. See OML 2017-51; OML 2013-87; OML 2013-13.
The complainant also alleges that the executive sessions were improperly held. Based 
on the July 5 letter and the circumstances leading up to the July 11 executive session, we 
conclude that the discussions that were held in executive session on July 11 and July 18 fell 
within executive session Purpose 3, as they constituted a discussion of imminently threatened 
litigation against the County.5 See OML 2017-86; OML 2012-5. The Commission should 
have provided the public with specific details concerning the topic to be discussed in the 
executive session, however, as some of the discussion occurred first in open session and the 
Commission provided no basis for demonstrating how this information would be detrimental 
to its litigating position if it was publicly disclosed at that time. Accordingly, the 
Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to provide sufficient detail about the 
specific topic in its open session statement as well as the notice for the July 18 meeting. As a 
result of these violations, the Commission may not rely on the Open Meeting Law to continue 
to withhold the executive sessions minutes of its July 11 and July 18 meetings from public 
disclosure. Accordingly, we order the Commission, within 30 days of this letter, to release
5 We note, as the Commission points out, that Purpose 1 may alternatively have been appropriate to justify the 
closed-door discussions, provided the Commission complied with the procedural requirements including 
providing notice to the subject individual and allowing him to participate. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1).
4

===PAGE 5===
the July 11 and July 18 executive session minutes unless an exemption to the Public Records 
Law or the attorney-client privilege applies that allows it to continue to withhold the minutes, 
in whole or in part. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f).
II. The July 11 and July 18 Meeting Minutes are Inaccurate.
The complainant alleges that the July 18 meeting minutes are inaccurate in that they 
fail to reflect the presence of the Chief Information Officer and his comments made during the 
meeting. We agree that the Commission omitted entire discussions from both the July 11 and 
July 18 meeting minutes, including the statements made by the Chief Information Officer and 
the employee at issue as well as the Commission’s discussion surrounding those statements.
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to “create and maintain accurate minutes of 
all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the 
accuracy requirement. See OML 2013-64. By substantial compliance, we mean that the 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did 
not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what 
occurred. See OML 2012-106. Although minutes must include a summary of the discussion 
on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every 
remark or opinion presented. See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55.
Here, in an attempt to protect the Commission’s litigating position and to defuse a 
contentious situation, the Commission decided not to include in the minutes certain statements 
made by individuals at the meeting. However, even sensitive topics discussed during a 
meeting need to be included in the meeting minutes as an accurate reflection of the actual 
discussion held. See OML 2013- 14. In reading the minutes, it is unclear what was actually 
discussed that prompted the executive sessions; neither the July 11 nor the July 18 minutes 
include any mention whatsoever of discussion in open session that precipitated the executive 
session. Failure to include these important details is a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
Accordingly, we order the Commission, within 30 days of this letter, to revise its July 11 and 
July 18 open session minutes to accurately reflect the discussions that took place at the 
meetings.
III. The Topics Listed on the Commission’s July 25 Meeting Notice were Sufficiently
Detailed.
Finally, the complainant alleges that two topics listed on the Commission’s July 25 
meeting notice, “Work with County Owned Buildings Policy” and “Reorganization of IT 
Department Recommendation,” lacked sufficient detail. The list of topics on a meeting notice 
must contain sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed 
at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic sufficiently specific
5

===PAGE 6===
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35. The topics as listed included 
sufficient detail to inform the public of the anticipated discussion and indeed adequately 
described the discussion that actually took place during the meeting.
We acknowledge that the complainant also takes issue with the Commission’s failure 
to allow public comment prior to taking action on these topics. There is no requirement in the 
Open Meeting Law that a public body allow public comment, although our office always 
encourages opportunity for public participation at meetings whenever possible. See G.L. c.
30 A, § 20(g) (“[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the 
chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.”); see also OML 2018-114; 
OML 2015-12; OML 2014-129; OML 2012-59. Accordingly, we find that the Commission 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law by declining to allow public comment.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to list an executive session topic on its July 18 meeting notice; by failing to 
provide sufficient detail regarding the executive sessions during the July 11 and July 18 
meetings; and by creating insufficient minutes of its July 11 and July 18 meetings. We order 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar 
future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Additionally, we 
order the Commission to revise its July 11 and July 18 open session meeting minutes in 
accordance with the guidance above, and to release its July 11 and July 18 executive session 
minutes unless an exemption to the Public Records Law or the attorney-client privilege 
applies that allows it to continue to withhold the minutes.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.
Carrie Benedon
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
cc: Marguerite  Lee, Second Assistant Register of Deeds
Nancy Campany, Esq.
6

===PAGE 7===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
7
