===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
July 26, 2012 
OML 2012 — 68 
D.M. Moschos, Esq. 
Mirick O'Connell 
100 Front Street 
Worcester, MA 01608-1477 
Elaine M. Rea11, Esq. 
City Solicitor 
City of Northampton 
20 Hampton Ave., Suite 160 
Northampton, MA 01060 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Moschos and Attorney Reall: 
This office received two complaints from Daniel Crowley, of the Daily Hampshire 
Gazette, on or about August 17, 2011, alleging that the Northampton School Committee (the 
"Committee") and the Northampton City Council (the "Council") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Committee and 
the Council on or about June 1, 2011, and former Mayor Clare Higgins responded to the 
original complaints in separate letters dated June 13, 2011. In his complaint, Mr. Crowley 
alleges that the Committee failed to provide sufficient detail about the purpose for its 
executive session both in the notice for its May 26, 2011 meeting and at the time the 
executive session was convened, and that the Council committed similar violations with 
regard to its May 5, May 19, and June 2, 2011 meetings. 
We reviewed the June 1, 2011 and August 17, 2011 complaints; the June 13, 2011 
responses; notices for the Council's May 5, May 19 and June 2, 2011 meetings; notice for the 
May 26, 2011 joint meeting of the Committee and the Council; the open and executive 
session minutes from the Committee's May 26, 2011 meeting; the open and executive 
session minutes from the Council's May 5, 2011 meeting; the open session minutes from the 
Council's May 19 and June 2, 2011 meetings; letters from the Committee, dated November 
18, 2011, January 23, 2012, and March 2, 2012, responding to our requests for information; 
and we interviewed former Council President David Narkewicz and retired Superintendent 
===PAGE 2===
William Erickson by telephone on December 12 and December 19, 2011, respectively. We 
appreciate the patience of the parties as we considered this complaint. 
Following our review, we find that both the Council and the Committee violated the 
Open Meeting Law by failing to state executive session topics with sufficiency specificity in 
their meeting notices, and by failing to state the reason for their respective executive sessions 
with sufficient specificity at the time they voted to enter executive session. The Council also 
failed to state that having its discussion in open session would have a detrimental effect on its 
bargaining position. We acknowledge and commend the efforts of both bodies to take 
remedial action in response to the complaints. For the reasons described below, however, we 
find the remedial action was not sufficient to fully cure the violations. 
FACTS  
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. 
The Council 
An agenda for the Council's May 5, 2011 meeting was created by Council President 
Narkewicz, in conjunction with Mayor Higgins, and posted on April 28, 2011. The last item 
on the agenda read "Executive Session: To Discuss Strategy with Respect to Collective 
Bargaining; M.G.L. Chapter 39 § 23B (3)." 1  According to Narkewicz, this item was added to 
the agenda at the Mayor's request. At the time, the Mayor was negotiating with every, or 
nearly every, bargaining unit in the city. Because the outcome of these negotiations would 
have a direct impact upon the Fiscal Year 2012 budget, it was important for the Mayor to 
provide periodic updates to the Council. According to Narkewicz, however, at the time the 
meeting notice was created he did not know which bargaining units the Mayor would 
discuss, since negotiations were on a "day to day" status. Because he anticipated she would 
provide some update, and because Council rules require that the agenda for a Thursday 
meeting be finalized by the preceding Friday, he added this item as written to the agenda. 
During the open session meeting on May 5, 2011, a motion was made to adjourn to 
executive session, not to return to regular meeting, and the motion passed on a unanimous 
roll call vote. The executive session minutes indicate that the Council discussed the progress 
of negotiations related to agreements with a variety of groups, including the police, fire 
department, clericals and teachers. No votes were taken, but it was decided that the Mayor 
would write a letter to the School Committee related to negotiations with the teachers. 
An agenda for the Council's May 19, 2011 meeting was created by Council President 
Narkewicz, in conjunction with Mayor Higgins, and posted on May 13, 2011. The last item 
on the agenda read "Executive Session: To Discuss Strategy with Respect to Collective 
Bargaining; M.G.L. Chapter 39 § 23B (3)." As with the May 5, 2011 meeting, this item was 
added at the Mayor's request to put the public on notice that she may be providing updates to 
the Council, however, at the time it was added, Narkewicz did not know which bargaining 
1  We note that this statute was repealed in 2009, and the Council should have cited to the section of the revised 
Open Meeting Law in effect at the time of the meeting, G.L. c. 30A, § 21(3). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
units would be the subject of the Mayor's update. Ultimately, the Mayor had no update to 
present. According to the open session minutes from this meeting, at the conclusion of the 
meeting Mayor Higgins stated that there was no need for an executive session and none was 
held. 
An agenda for the Council's June 2, 2011 meeting was created by Council President 
Narkewicz, in conjunction with Mayor Higgins, and posted on May 27, 2011. The last item 
on the agenda read "Executive Session: To Discuss Strategy with Respect to Collective 
Bargaining; M.G.L. Chapter 39 § 23B (3)." As with the prior meetings, this was added to the 
agenda in case the Mayor had updates to present. Ultimately, the Mayor had nothing to 
report, and stated at the conclusion of the meeting there was no need for an executive session, 
thus none was held. 
The minutes from the Council's May 5, 2011 executive session were released to the 
public on December 15, 2011. 
The Committee 
A notice and agenda, created by Interim Superintendent Dr. William Erickson in 
conjunction with the School District's Executive Secretary, was posted on or around May 23, 
2011 and stated that the Committee would hold an executive session at 7 p.m. on May 26, 
2011 in the Principal's Conference Room of J.F.K. Middle School. The Agenda further 
stated the executive session was being held "under Massachusetts General Law — Open 
Meeting Law Chapter 39, Sec. 23B (3) — to discuss collective bargaining." 2  At the time the 
meeting notice and agenda was created, Superintendent Erickson anticipated they'd be 
discussing negotiations with the Northampton Association of School Employees ("NASE") — 
an umbrella organization that represents all the bargaining units in the School District. The 
Agenda also stated that a special meeting of the Committee and the Council would be held at 
7:15 p.m. that same night in the Mark E. Warner Community Room at the J.F.K. Middle 
School. 
According to the Committee's executive session minutes, Mayor Higgins called the 
meeting to order in open session, then a motion was made by Committee Member Pick "to 
enter Executive Session under provisions of Massachusetts General Law, Open Meeting Law 
Chapter 39, Sec. 23B (3), the purpose of discussing collective bargaining proposals, which if 
conducted in Open Session would have a detrimental effect on the process." A roll call vote 
was taken and passed unanimously, and notice was given that the Committee would 
reconvene in open session. During the executive session, the Committee discussed the 
progress of certain negotiations with NASE and voted to approve two memoranda of 
understanding. At 7:30 p.m., the Committee convened in open session for the joint meeting 
with the Council. 
The minutes from the Committee's May 26, 2011 executive session were released to 
the public on December 8, 2011. 
2  As with the Council, we note that the Committee should have cited to the section of the revised Open Meeting 
Law in effect at the time of the meeting, G.L. c. 30A, § 21(3). 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Subsequent Remedial Action 
In response to the complaints, the Mayor's June 2011 letters agreed that the Council's 
and the Committee's posted agendas "were not in full compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law" because they did not state that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining or litigating position of the public body, and because the chair did not make such 
a declaration at the time the bodies voted to enter executive session. By way of remedial 
action, with respect to both bodies, she stated that before entering executive session for this 
purpose during future meetings, the chair would be sure to make such a declaration of 
necessity. 
In addition, she wrote that the Committee would be sure to use the following 
language in meeting notices where an executive session for this purpose is anticipated: 
Following a call to order in regular session, the Committee will move to Executive 
Session at (stated time) in the Principal's Conference Room. Under Massachusetts 
General Law — Open Meeting Law Chapter 39, Sec. 23B (3), the purpose is to discuss 
strategy for collective bargaining, which if conducted in Open Session would have a 
detrimental effect on the process. 
Finally, the letter responding to the allegations against the Council stated that the 
agendas and minutes from the May 5, May 19, and June 2, 2011 meetings had been amended 
as follows: 
Executive Session: To discuss the City of Northampton's collective bargaining 
strategy relative to current open collective bargaining agreements as per M.G.L. 
Chapter 39 § 23B (3). An open session might have a detrimental effect on the City of 
Northampton's collective bargaining position with respect to open contracts. 
DISCUSSION 
The Council 
1. Notices for the Council's Meetings were not Sufficiently Specific 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice 48 hours in advance of 
a meeting and include, a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a 
meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03. We generally consider a topic to include 
sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. 
The meeting notices for the Council's May 5, May 19, and June 2, 2011 meetings fell 
short of the requirement that the Council state "all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session" was being called. G.L. c. 30A, § 
4 
===PAGE 5===
21(b)(3); See District Attorney for Northern Dist. v. School Committee of Wayland, 455 
Mass. 561, 567 (Mass. 2009) ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive 
session is necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only notification given to 
the public that the school committee would conduct business in private, and the only way the 
public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper"). All three notices 
listed the topic "Executive Session: To Discuss Strategy with Respect to Collective 
Bargaining; M.G.L. Chapter 39 § 23B (3)." The Council acted appropriately by including 
this agenda item in each of the notices, just in case the Mayor had an update to provide, and 
we acknowledge that the Chair did not reasonably anticipate discussing any specific 
bargaining unit during the executive sessions. The Chair did anticipate that the Mayor would 
provide an update on the progress of her negotiations with all bargaining units, however. 
The notice therefore should have read "Executive Session: To Discuss Strategy with Respect 
to Collective Bargaining; M.G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) — Mayor's update on progress of 
negotiations with all bargaining units." Additionally, we note that where, as here, there is a 
bylaw or policy that requires posting notice earlier than the 48 hours required by the Open 
Meeting Law, public bodies should assess closer to the meeting date whether additional 
detail may be added to the meeting notice. 
2. The Chair Failed to Make a Sufficiently Detailed Statement of the Purpose for the 
Council's May 5, 2011 Executive Session 
Prior to entering executive session, the chair of the public body must "state the 
purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(b)(3). From the executive session minutes from the May 5, 2011 meeting, it appears that 
a motion was made to adjourn to executive session, not to return to regular meeting, but no 
reason for the session was verbally given. This statement obviously failed to provide enough 
information so that a member of the public would understand the nature of the executive 
session. The Chair should have publicly stated that the executive session was being held, "To 
Discuss Strategy with Respect to Collective Bargaining and to receive the Mayor's update on 
progress of negotiations with all bargaining units." 
Also, as the Council's response acknowledged, before entering executive session to 
discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining, the Chair must declare that having the 
discussion in open session may have a detrimental effect on the body's bargaining position. 
That did not occur prior to the May 5, 2011 executive session, however we are confident that 
the Council understands its obligations in this regard and has committed to following the 
proper procedures going forward. 
Finally, while we applaud the Council's efforts to take corrective action in response 
to the complaint, we note that the Council's amendment of its meeting agendas and open 
session minutes was not sufficient to cure the deficiencies in the meeting notice and the 
statement made at the time the Council entered executive session. First, the amendments 
added no detail about with whom the Council was negotiating. Second, the requirement that 
a public body state the purpose for its executive sessions in as much detail as possible in the 
meeting notice and prior to entering executive session is intended to give the public notice of 
5 
===PAGE 6===
what the body plans to discuss behind closed doors. Amending the meeting notices and open 
session minutes after the fact, even if the amendments had contained sufficient detail, does 
not achieve the goals of the law. 
The Committee 
3. Notice for the Committee's Meeting was not sufficiently specific 
For the same reasons that the Council's meeting notices were not sufficiently specific, 
the notice for the Committee's meeting on May 26, 2011 also failed to comply with the law's 
requirements. The notice stated that an executive session would be held "under 
Massachusetts General Law — Open Meeting Law Chapter 39, Sec. 23B (3) — to discuss 
collective bargaining." Because it was anticipated that the discussion would relate to 
negotiations with the Northampton Association of School Employees ("NASE"), this 
information should have been in the meeting notice and should also have been included in 
the statement of the executive session purpose at the time the Committee voted to enter 
executive session. 
Furthermore, the Committee's notice should have stated that it would be convening in 
open session prior to the executive session. The Committee acted appropriately by 
convening in open session prior to entering executive session, however there was no notice to 
the public that this open session would occur. Even if the only business to be discussed 
during an open session is the vote to enter executive session, the public must have notice of 
the time and place of the open session meeting and be given an opportunity to attend. 
Although the Mayor's response to the complaint did not explicitly acknowledge this 
inadequacy in the meeting notice, the language that was proposed for future Committee 
meeting notices includes a statement that the executive session will follow a call to order in 
regular session. We believe this is appropriate remedial action. 
Finally, although the Committee's response to the complaint says that the Committee 
did not comply with the Open Meeting Law because it did not state that having its discussion 
in open session would have a detrimental effect on its bargaining position, the executive 
session minutes indicate that this statement was actually made. Nevertheless, we appreciate 
that the Committee has committed to making a statement about detrimental effect before 
entering executive session for this purpose in the future, however we note that the 
Committee's proposed language for future meeting notices is still deficient for two reasons. 
First, it cites to the repealed version of the Open Meeting Law, where it should cite to G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25; and second, the notice must contain more detail about with whom the 
Committee is negotiating. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that both the Council and the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, and caution the Council and the Committee that future similar violations may 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. 
6 
===PAGE 7===
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office, 
the Council, or the Committee. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or 
believe any facts in this letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Amy L. Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Daniel Crowley 
Northampton City Council 
Northampton School District 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
7 