===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 26, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 171 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Adam Lamontagne 
Town Administrator 
Town of Templeton 
alamontagne@TempletonMA.gov 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Lamontagne:  
 
This office received a complaint from Robert May on April 28, 2022, alleging that the 
Templeton Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 24, and you responded on behalf of 
the Board by letter dated April 7.
1  The complaint alleges that the Board discussed a topic during 
a March 23 meeting without including that topic on the meeting notice.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Board, the Board’s 
response, and the complaint filed with our office requesting our review.  We also reviewed the 
notice for the Board’s March 23 meeting as well as a video of the March 23 meeting.
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on March 
23.  The notice included, among other matters, the heading “5. New Business” and beneath that, 
“c) Presentation RE: Main Street Bridge Rehabilitation and Water Main Replacement 
Alternative Analysis.”   
 
 
1 All dates refer to the year 2022. 
2 A video of the March 23 meeting is available online at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UCjcCv7WqFs. 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
During the Board’s March 23 meeting, the Board discussed the Main Street bridge 
rehabilitation and water main replacement project.  As one piece of that discussion, the Board 
discussed costs of the project and possible alternatives.  The Board also discussed the amount of 
funding available for the current stage of the project between appropriations from the Town, 
state funding, and possible use of American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) funding.  There was 
discussion that current funding sources are expected to cover the projected costs, but that if there 
are delays and costs increase, the available funding may be insufficient.  In the course of this 
discussion, Board member Jeff Bennett stated that there would be a payoff in hiring a grant 
writer, as there is much funding available, as well as additional state funding that may become 
available in the next year.  Mr. Bennett proposed hiring a grant writer in the next fiscal year, and 
opined that the funding generated could more than pay for the grant writer; he cited a 
neighboring city’s success in procuring significant grant funding using a paid grant writer as an 
example.  Board member Julie Richard stated that she agreed about hiring a grant writer, and that 
the matter should be put on the agenda to be discussed at a future Board meeting.  The Board did 
not take action during the March 23 meeting on the suggestion of hiring a grant writer. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to post notice 48 hours prior to a meeting 
and include a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.”   G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies must list topics for discussion with “sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable 
member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public 
body's discussion.  See OML 2014-42.
3  Where a public body’s discussion naturally flows from 
its consideration of the posted agenda topic, the notice was sufficient to inform the public of the 
discussion that occurred.  See OML 2018-14; OML 2014-44; OML 2014-38.  The Open Meeting 
Law does not require a public body to anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of a 
discussion, only that it identify the anticipated discussion topic with sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2019-102; OML 2017-186; OML 2014-38. 
 
Here, the notice topic informed the public that the Board would discuss the Main Street 
bridge rehabilitation and water main replacement project.  In the course of discussing costs and 
available funding for that project, a Board member raised the possibility of hiring a paid grant 
writer to pursue funding from additional sources.  Although the specific topic of hiring a grant 
writer was not listed in the meeting notice, the discussion naturally flowed from the noticed 
topic, and therefore was permissible.  Therefore, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  Furthermore, we commend the Board for deciding to place the topic of hiring a grant 
writer on the notice for a future meeting, rather than proceed with discussion and a decision 
during the March 23 meeting. 
 
  
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found on the Attorney General’s website, https://www mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our Office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Robert May (via e-mail: ) 
Templeton Select Board (via e-mail: hyoung@TempletonMA.gov) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
