===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 19, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 250 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Michael D’Ortenzio Jr., Esq. 
KP Law 
mdortenzio@k-plaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney D’Ortenzio: 
 
This office received a complaint from Robert Leighton on June 17, 2024, alleging that the 
Northfield Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about May 13, 2024, and you responded 
on behalf of the Board by letter dated June 3, 2024. The complaint alleges that the Board has 
improperly withheld the minutes of its October 3, 2023, executive session meeting. 
 
Following our review, we find that, with one exception discussed below, the Board may 
no longer rely on the Open Meeting Law to withhold the minutes of its October 3, 2023, 
executive session. Additionally, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
creating insufficient minutes for the October 3 executive session. In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, and the request for further 
review. We also reviewed, in camera, the minutes of the October 3, 2023, executive session. 
Finally, we communicated with the Board’s legal counsel via email and telephone.
1 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The
  complaint relates to litigation filed in federal court 
in which the Town and the Complainant were named defendants. Boyer v. Leighton, No. 3:21-
cv-30023-MGM (D. Mass. Dec. 29, 2023). The Board convened in executive session on October 
3, 2023, to discuss strategy with respect to this litigation matter. Because the minutes of the 
 
1 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
October 3 executive session have not yet been released to the public, we do not summarize their 
content here. The parties to the litigation reached a settlement agreement and on December 29, 
2023, the Court entered a Settlement Order of Dismissal, thus concluding the litigation matter.  
 
On April 12, 2024, the Complainant made a public records request requesting, in part, the 
minutes of the Board’s October 3, 2023, executive session.
2 The Town responded to the request 
declining to provide the minutes and asserting that the minutes continued to be withheld under 
the Open Meeting Law as release of the minutes would jeopardize the Town’s litigating position. 
On April 24, 2024, the Complainant appealed the Town’s response to the Supervisor of Records 
in the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s Office. On May 8, 2024, the Supervisor issued a 
decision, SPR24/1239, explaining that the Supervisor was unable to opine as to whether the 
Open Meeting Law permits the Board to continue to withhold the minutes of the October 3, 
2023, executive session and advising that the parties seek guidance from the Division of Open 
Government. Thereafter, on or about May 13, 2024, the Complainant filed the present complaint 
alleging that the Board has improperly withheld the executive session minutes.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Unless lawfully convened in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be 
open to the public.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for 
one or more of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One 
permissible purpose for convening in executive session is “[t]o discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minut
es of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The Open Meeting 
Law provides that executive session meeting minutes “may be withheld from disclosure to the 
public in their entirety under subclause (a) of [the Public Records Law], as long as publication 
may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
Once the purpose for the executive session “has been served, the minutes, preparatory materials 
and documents and exhibits of the session shall be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege 
or 1 or more of the exemptions under [the Public Records Law] apply to withhold these records, 
or any portion thereof, from disclosure.” Id. Specifically, with respect to executive sessions held 
under Purpose 3, “the minutes, preparatory materials[,] and documents and exhibits used at the 
session may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety, unless and until such time 
as a litigating, negotiating or bargaining position is no longer jeopardized by such disclosure.” 
Id. Once a litigating, negotiating, or bargaining position would no longer be jeopardized by 
disclosure, the minutes and materials of the executive session “shall be disclosed unless the 
attorney-client privilege or 1 or more of the exemptions under [the Public Records Law] apply to 
withhold [the] records, or any portion thereof, from disclosure.” Id. The burden of justifying 
continued nondisclosure lies with the public body. See Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham Regional Sch. 
Comm., 402 Mass. 179, 184 (1988). 
 
 
2 The Complainant notes that he made an earlier request for the same minutes which the Town also denied.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The Complainant alleges that the minutes of the October 3 executive session must be 
released to the public because the purpose for the executive session has been served where the 
relevant litigation was settled and dismissed.3 In response, the Board asserts three bases to justify 
continued nondisclosure of the executive session minutes: 1) that release of the minutes could be 
detrimental to the Board’s future litigating position; 2) that the underlying litigation matter 
remains ongoing where one of the terms of the settlement agreement continues in perpetuity; and 
3) that the minutes are protected under the attorney-client privilege. 
 
I. The Board may rely on the Open Meeting Law to continue to withhold that portion of 
the October 3, 2023, executive session minutes that record the Town’s maximum 
settlement authority. 
  
The Board asserts that release of the October 3, 2023, executive session minutes could 
have
 a detrimental effect on its future litigating position where the Board discussed “the Town’s 
maximum settlement capacity.” We have explained that with respect to collective bargaining 
discussed in executive session under Purpose 3, a public body may continue to withhold meeting 
minutes even after the specific negotiation is complete where the discussions recorded in the 
minutes touch upon long-term strategy that could harm a future bargaining position. See OML 
2015-52; OML 2012-41(noting, however, that the minutes “may not be withheld indefinitely. At 
some point, the public interest in transparency will outweigh the potential for harm to the public 
body’s future collective bargaining position.”).
4 Similarly, here, we find that the discussion of 
maximum settlement capacity would likely directly impact the Board’s future litigating position.  
Therefore, we find that the Board may rely on the Open Meeting Law to continue to withhold 
that portion of the minutes of the October 3 executive session that record discussion of the 
Town’s maximum settlement authority where release of such information could have a 
detrimental effect on the Board’s litigating position in the future. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
 
II. The Board may not rely on the Open Meeting Law to continue to withhold the 
remainder of the October 3, 2023, executive session minutes. 
 
The Board asserts that because one of the terms of the settlement agreement imposes an 
ongoing obligation on the parties, the underlying litigation matter remains ongoing, presumably 
indefinitely, and therefore the executive session purpose remains ongoing as well. We disagree. 
The litigation matter discussed during the October 3 executive session was settled and dismissed 
a year ago. In the past we have found that a litigation remained active after a settlement 
agreement was reached but prior to the dismissal of the case because the settlement agreement 
specified that the matter would not be dismissed until after final payment under the agreement 
 
3 The Complainant suggests that the minutes should be released to him due to his special relationship to the litigation 
matter discussed, explaining that he is “intimately familiar with all aspects of the case and . . . extensively consulted 
with legal counsel throughout. Therefore, there is no justifiable reason for withholding the requested executive 
session minutes . . . which pertain directly to a matter of significant personal and professional importance.” The 
Open Meeting Law does not distinguish between individuals who request minutes from public bodies, thus we 
review whether the Board may continue to rely on the Open Meeting Law to withhold the minutes from the public, 
regardless of the Complainant’s particular relationship to the matters discussed in the executive session. See OML 
2017-143, n.6. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
was made. OML 2012-70. We have also explained that, with respect to negotiat ions regarding 
the purchase, exchange, lease, or sale of real property, once all of the terms of a purchase and 
sales agreement have been agreed upon, a public body’s reliance on G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) 
(“Purpose 6”) expires because the negotiation is complete. See OML 2012-52. Here, all the 
terms of the settlement have been agreed upon and the underlying lawsuit has been dismissed. 
Therefore, we find that the litigation matter discussed in executive session on October 3, 2023, 
has concluded, the executive session purpose has been served, and the Board may no longer rely 
on the Open Meeting Law to withhold the minutes other than that portion of the minutes that 
records the Town’s settlement capacity.  
 
III. The Division makes no determination as to whether the minutes of the October 3, 
2023, executive session may be withheld, in whole or in part, under a claim of the 
attorney-client privilege. 
 
The Board asserts that the minutes of the October 3 executive session may c ontinue to be 
withheld from the public because they are protected by the attorney-client privilege. Indeed, the 
Open Meeting Law specifies that once an executive session purpose has been served, a public 
body may continue to withhold the minutes, or any portion thereof, under the attorney-client 
privilege or one or more of the exemptions to the Public Records Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
However, the Open Meeting Law does not authorize the Attorney General to determine whether 
the Board’s assertion of the attorney-client privilege is justified. See G.L. c. 30A, § 24(e); OML 
2020-157; OML 2016-129; OML 2014-22; OML 2013-7. Any dispute regarding a public body’s 
claim that minutes are exempt from disclosure pursuant to the attorney-client privilege or an 
exemption to the Public Records Law should be directed to the Supervisor of Records in the 
Secretary of the Commonwealth’s Records Division. See, e.g., OML 2016-57; OML 2020-157. 
 
IV. The minutes of the October 3, 2023, execu tive session are insufficient where they do 
not summarize the discussions held.  
 
Finally, although not raised in the complaint because the executive session minutes have 
not bee
n released to the public or the Complainant, we find that the minutes of the October 3, 
2023, executive session are insufficiently detailed. As explained above, the Open Meeting Law 
requires that public bodies “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Minutes must set “forth the date, time and place [of the 
meeting], the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes.” Id. (emphasis added).  
 
The minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public 
who did not
 attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what 
occurred. See OML 2016-105. Although a transcript of the discussions is not required, and the 
minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented, minutes must include a 
substantive summary of the discussion on each topic. See OML 2020-57; OML 2018-8; OML 
2012-29. The Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes include more than a statement 
that a public body held a discussion about a specified topic; the Law requires that the minutes 
summarize the discussion that was held. See OML 2020-57; OML 2019-167. A belief that the 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
substance of the executive session minutes may be exempt from disclosure under the Public 
Records Law or the attorney-client privilege does not relieve the public body from its obligation 
to create and maintain accurate meeting minutes. See OML 2022-189 (explaining that if a public 
body believes that information contained in its minutes is exempt from disclosure, it may redact 
such information; it may not, however, “choose to create insufficient meeting minutes as a means 
to protect information that it believes might be exempt from disclosure”). 
 
Bas
ed on our in camera review of the October 3, 2023, executive session minutes, we 
find that the minutes are inadequate to meet the standard required by the Open Meeting Law 
because they do not offer a sufficiently detailed summary of the topics discussed. Instead, the 
nearly hour-long executive session is summarized in nine brief bullet points. In particular, the 
sixth bullet point suggests that a substantive discussion occurred but does not summarize that 
discussion at all. Therefore, we order the Board to amend the minutes of its October 3, 2023, 
executive session to substantively summarize the discussions that were held, in accordance with 
the requirements of G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  
  
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that, with the exception of reference to the Town’s 
maximum settlement capacity, the Board may no longer rely on the Open Meeting Law to justify 
withholding the minutes of its October 3, 2023, executive session. We additionally find that the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law by creating insufficient minutes for its October 3, 2023, 
executive session. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Law. 
Additionally, we order the Board, within 60 days of the date of this letter, to amend the minutes 
of its October 3, 2023, executive session to substantively summarize the discussions held, and to 
certify to our office that it has done so. Finally, we order the Board to release the amended 
minutes of the October 3, 2023, executive session to the public, subject to any appropriate 
redactions under the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 6===
6 
 
 
cc: Northfield Select Board c/o Andrea Llama, Town Administrator  
(via email: allamas@northfieldma.gov)  
Northfield Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@northfieldma.gov) 
Robert Leighton (via email: ) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
