===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 23,2018 
OML 2018-110 
Kay H. Hodge, Esq. 
Stoneman, Chandler & Miller, LLP 
99 High Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Hodge: 
This office received a complaint from Mark Hawke, Mayor of Gardner, on February 22 
alleging that the Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School Committee Policy 
Subcommittee (the "Subcommittee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 
The complaint was originally filed with the Subcommittee on January 18 and you responded, on 
behalf of the Subcommittee, by letter dated February 16.2 The complaint alleges that the 
Subcommittee entered into executive session for an improper purpose on January 16. 
Following our review, we find that the Subcommittee did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Subcommittee's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We 
also reviewed the notice of, and open and executive session minutes from, the Subcommittee's 
January 16 meeting; the open session minutes from the Montachusett Regional Vocational 
Technical School Committee's (the "Committee") February 15 meeting; and a January 3 letter 
sent to the Committee from Mayor Hawke. Finally, we spoke with your associate. Attorney 
Geoffrey Bok, by telephone on June 8, and with Mayor Hawke by telephone on June 13. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018. 
2 We remind the Subcommittee that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a 
complaint, the public body must meet to review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; 
send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General 
a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
o 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a 22-member public body. The 
Subcommittee is one of nine subcommittees created by the Committee. Its role is to advise and 
make recommendations to the Committee on matters involving contract issues, including the 
agreement between the eighteen cities and towns that comprise the Montachusett Regional 
School District. The City of Gardner is a member of this school district. 
In a January 3 letter to the chair of the Committee, Gardner Mayor Mark Hawke stated 
that the "District Agreement and the School Committee Policy Manual states that the School 
Committee shall submit a tentative operating and maintenance budget to member communities 
on or before November 15, and shall adopt this budget on or before December 1st." Because the 
Committee had not submitted such a budget, it was "in violation of the contract with its member 
communities. The City of Gardner will be escrowing any further payments until the school 
district comes into compliance with the District Agreement." The City of Gardner's quarterly 
payment was due on February 1. 
The notice for the Subcommittee's January 16 meeting listed, among other topics, an 
executive session as follows: "Pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(3) to discuss 
litigation strategy in relation to Gardner's anticipated non-payment of tuition to the District, per 
letter from Mayor Hawke to the District." 
During the January 16 meeting, the Subcommittee unanimously voted by roll call to enter 
into executive session "to discuss litigation strategy in relation to Gardner's anticipated non-
payment of tuition to the District, per letter of January 3, 2018 from Mayor Hawke to the 
District." The minutes of the executive session are sparse and do not include an account of the 
actual discussions by the Subcommittee during the executive session. Even so, because the 
Subcommittee has not publicly released the minutes of this executive session, we do not recount 
their content in detail here. However, according to Attorney Bok, the Subcommittee discussed 
potential litigation against the City of Gardner if it withheld its tuition payment. 
After reconvening in open session, Subcommittee Legal Counsel Kay Hodge explained 
that when the original school district agreement was written in the 1960s, the Commonwealth 
operated on a calendar year. At the end of the 1970s, the Commonwealth began operating on a 
fiscal year. The school district also began operating on a fiscal year thereafter, with the fiscal 
year ending on June 30, not December 31 as written in the original district agreement. Attorney 
Hodge advised that a simple majority vote of the Committee could amend the district agreement 
to reflect that the budget would operate on a fiscal year. The Subcommittee then unanimously 
voted to make a recommendation to the Committee that it adopt an amendment to the school 
district agreement allowing the budget to operate on a fiscal year. The Subcommittee also 
unanimously voted to make a recommendation to the Committee that it convene in executive 
session "to discuss potential litigation against the City of Gardner in the event tuition payments 
are withheld." 
During a February 15 meeting, the Committee voted by a majority vote to amend the 
district agreement to reflect that the budget would operate on a fiscal year. The City of Gardner 
made its district payment the next day, on February 16. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION 
The complaint challenges the propriety of the Subcommittee's January 16 executive 
session discussions. The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies 
may enter a closed, executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes, provided that the chair 
of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for the executive session, "stating 
all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive 
session was called." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3): see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. 
Sch. Comm. of Wayland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) ("[a] precise statement of the reason for 
convening in executive session is necessary . . . because that is the only notification given the 
public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would 
know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper"). 
One permissible reason to convene in executive session is "to discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 3 OA, § 
21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). This purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with 
respect to litigation that is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise 
demonstrably likely; the mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3. See 
Dohertv v. School Committee of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Perryman v. School 
Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-05.3 To convene an 
executive session under Purpose 3, a public body must have a bargaining or litigating position to 
protect. See OML 2012-116. 
The complainant argues that the Subcommittee convened in executive session for an 
improper purpose because the Subcommittee is not authorized to initiate litigation, only the 
Committee has such authority. The Subcommittee was created to advise and make 
recommendations to the Committee on matters involving contract issues. At the time of the 
January 16 meeting, the Subcommittee was concerned with the City of Gardner's unwillingness 
to abide by the terms of the school district agreement and its stated intention to escrow its tuition 
payment until the school district comes into compliance with the school district agreement. 
During the January 16 executive session, the Subcommittee discussed with its legal counsel 
strategy with respect to initiating litigation against the City of Gardner if tuition payment was 
withheld. Where the Subcommittee's role was to advise the Committee on issues relating to the 
school district agreement, we conclude that the Subcommittee had a litigating position to protect. 
As such, we find that it was appropriate for the Subcommittee to convene in executive session 
under Purpose 3 to discuss litigation strategy. See OML 2014-141; OML 2011-47. 
Although not raised in the complaint, we note that the Subcommittee's January 16 
executive session minutes are not sufficiently detailed. The Open Meeting Law requires that a 
public body "create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, 
setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a). The minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the 
public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of 
what occurred. See OML 2016-105. Based on our in camera review of the minutes of the 
Subcommittee's January 16 executive session, we note that the minutes are inadequate to meet 
the standard required by the Open Meeting Law because they do not offer a sufficiently detailed 
summary of the Subcommittee's forty-five minute discussion. We recommend that the 
Subcommittee amend its January 16 executive session meeting minutes in accordance with the 
requirements of G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(a). The Subcommittee may continue to withhold the minutes 
from public disclosure if such disclosure would defeat the lawful purposes of the executive 
session. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). Once publication of the minutes would no longer defeat the 
purpose for the executive session, the Subcommittee must publicly release the minutes. Id. 
However, the Subcommittee may continue to withhold the minutes, in whole or in part, under 
any applicable exemptions to the Public Records Law or the attorney/client privilege. Id. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Subcommittee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by meeting in 
executive session on January 16 to discuss strategy with respect to pursuing litigation. We now 
consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does 
not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Subcommittee. 
Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this 
letter. 
Sincerely, _ 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Mayor Mark Hawke 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 