===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
October 3, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 182 
 
 
Frances S. Parks 
Chair, Cotuit Fire District Prudential Commission 
P. O. Box 1475  
Cotuit, Massachusetts 02635  
 
By email only: fparks@cotuitfiredistrict.org 
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Parks: 
 
This office received a complaint from Cynthia Gardner on November 2, 2021, alleging 
that the Cotuit Fire District Prudential Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Commission 
on October 1, and you responded, on behalf of the Commission, by letter dated October 18.  The 
complaint alleges that the Commission met in executive session on September 27 for an 
improper purpose.   
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Commission’s response to the complaint, the 
complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the notice and open session 
minutes of the Commission meeting held on September 27, as well as a video recording of that 
meeting.
2  We find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law.  G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a).  Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also 
District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 
2 A video recording of the Commission’s September 27 meeting is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JDQH0UrRN s&t=3s . 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is 
the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and 
the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”). 
 
A public body may enter executive session “to discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or 
litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) 
(“Purpose 3”).  When convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body must 
identify the collective bargaining unit with whom it will be negotiating, if doing so will not 
compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy.  See OML 2020-130; OML 2016-43.
3 
 
The Commission posted notice for a meeting to be held on September 27 at 6:00 P.M.
4  
The notice listed twelve topics, including an executive session pursuant to Purpose 3 “To discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of a public body and the chair so 
declares.” 
 
The September 27 meeting was held as planned and the Commission met for 
approximately 15 minutes in open session discussing the noticed topics.  Chair Frances Parks
5 
then explained that the Fire Commissioners and Union would start impact bargaining soon, 
although no dates had yet been set, and she was asked by the Chair of the Board of Fire 
Commissioner’s to remain on the Negotiating Committee.  She stated there was other 
information “that I would like to pass along to you that is not suitable for public comment.”  One 
Commission member asked if such discussions fell within an applicable executive session 
purpose and Chair Parks responded that it fell within Purpose 3.  The Commission then approved 
a unanimous vote by roll call to convene in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3 to “discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining or ligation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of a public body” and announced that it 
would not reconvene in open session following the executive session.
6   
 
The Commission responded to the complaint stating that it is “required to sign any 
agreements or contracts with the union,” that the district was “about to start Impact Bargaining 
with the Firefighters union over a Statement of Guidelines proposed by the Fire Chief,” and the 
executive session was held to bring the Commission “up to speed about the pending Impact 
Bargaining.”  While we appreciate the response of the Commission, we find that this response 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 We remind the Commission that the Open Meeting Law requires that “the date and time that the notice is posted 
shall be conspicuously recorded thereon or therewith.”  940 CMR 29.03(1)(d).  T he date and time of posting may be 
listed either on the meeting notice itself or on the website next to the link to the meeting notice.  See  OML 2019-
102; OML 2018-53.  Recording the date and time enables the public to observe that public bodies are complying 
with the Open Meeting Law’s notice requirements and further provides this office with evidence of compliance with 
the law.  See OML 2013-44.   
5 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
6 We remind the Commission that it must identify the collective bargaining unit with which it is negotiating, both in 
the written notice and verbal statement made before entering executive session, if doing so will not compromise the 
executive session purpose.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(b)(2), (3); OML 2014-133; OML 2013-91. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
does not clarify the need for the executive session or the appropriateness of the discussions that 
actually occurred during that session.  Yet, despite numerous requests from our office, we did not 
receive a copy of the executive session minutes from the Commission nor further clarification 
regarding the actual discussions that occurred during the executive session.7  The Open Meeting 
Law requires that, “[u]pon notification of an investigation, any person, public body or any other 
... official or entity who is the subject of an investigation, shall make all information necessary to 
conduct such investigation available to the attorney general.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 24(a).  We caution 
the Commission that we may find a violation of the Open Meeting Law for a future failure to 
respond to our request for information and/or materials in the course of an investigation.  See 
OML 2016-127. 
 
A public body has discretion to enter executive session, however once it has been 
determined that a public body intends to enter executive session the body bears the burden of 
showing the need for the closed session.  See District Attorney for the Northwestern District v. 
Board of Selectmen of Sunderland, 11 Mass. App. Ct. 663, 666 (1981); see also OML 2011-18.  
We find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by convening in executive session 
for an improper purpose on September 27 as it failed to provide information that would lead this 
office to conclude otherwise.  We order the Commission’s immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the law.  In addition, we order the Commission to release the 
executive session minutes of the September 27 meeting within 30 days of the Commission’s 
receipt of this letter.  
  
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
       Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: 
  Cynthia Gardner – By email only:  
  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
7 This office contacted the Authority on May 23, 2022, June 28, 2022, and September 8, 2022. 
