===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
    
January 22, 2026 
 
OML 2026 – 14  
 
 
Somerset School Committee Redistricting Subcommittee 
c/o Jennifer Ashley, Chair 
580 Whetstone Hill Road  
Somerset, MA 02726 
 
By email only: jennifer.ashley@somersetschools.org 
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Ashley, 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on October 28, 2025, alleging that 
the Somerset School Committee Redistricting Subcommittee (the “Subcommittee”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the 
Subcommittee on September 27, 2025, and you
1 responded, on behalf of the Subcommittee, by 
letter dated November 6, 2025.2  The complaint alleges that Subcommittee members failed to 
timely complete the required Open Meeting Law certification form. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Subcommittee did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Subcommittee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review.  In addition, we reviewed the notice and minutes of the School Committee 
meeting held on July 22, 2025.   
 
  
 
1 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
2 We remind the Subcommittee that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a 
complaint, the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; 
send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General 
a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law states that “[w]ithin 2 weeks of qualification for office, all 
persons serving on a public body shall certify, on a form prescribed by the attorney general, the 
receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, regulations promulgated under section 25 and a copy 
of the educational materials prepared by the attorney general explaining the open meeting law 
and its application under section 19.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(h).  The Law further states that “[t]he 
certification shall be evidence that the member of a public body has read and understands the 
requirements of the open meeting law and the consequences of violating it.”  Id. 
 
During a meeting held on July 22, 2025, the School Committee appointed 23 individuals 
to the Subcommittee.  Two individuals appointed to the Subcommittee, Jennifer Ashley and John 
Ventura, were also members of the School Committee.  On October 14, 2025, members of the 
Subcommittee took the oath of office and promptly completed the Open Meeting Law 
certification form. 
 
The complaint alleges that Subcommittee members were required to sign the certification 
form “within two weeks of their qualifying as a member of the subcommittee” and asserts that 
the day on which they qualified as members of the Subcommittee was July 22, 2025, the day 
members were appointed to the Subcommittee.
3  The Subcommittee maintains that members 
timely complied with the certification requirements where members signed certification forms 
and submitted those forms to the Town Clerk within two weeks of taking the oath of office, 
which occurred on October 14, 2025.  The Open Meeting Law requires members of public 
bodies to complete a Certificate of Receipt of Open Meeting Law Materials within two weeks of 
“qualification for office.”  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(h).  The Open Meeting Law regulations define 
“Qualification for Office” as “[t]he election or appointment of a person to a public body and the 
taking of the oath of office, where required, and shall include qualification for a second or any 
subsequent term of office.”
4  940 CMR 29.02 (emphasis added).  As such, Subcommittee 
members needed to both be appointed and take the oath of office before qualifying for office; 
that occurred here on October 14, 2025, after members took the oath of office.  Therefore, where 
Subcommittee members certified receipt of the Open Meeting Law materials within two weeks 
of October 14, 2025, we find that the members complied with the Open Meeting Law’s 
certification provisions. 
 
  
 
3 The complaint asserts that Subcommittee members Jennifer Ashley and John Ventura timely completed 
certification forms as School Committee members but not as Subcommittee members.  We note that the Open 
Meeting Law regulations specifically state that “A public body member does not need to sign a separate certification 
when joining a subcommittee of the public body.”  940 CMR 29.04(4); see also OML 2019-79. 
4 We note that every appointed member of every board or commission of a town shall, before entering upon their 
official duties, be sworn to the faithful performance thereof.  See G.L. c. 41, § 107. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Subcommittee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Subcommittee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  Patrick Higgins – By email only:   
Somerset School Committee – By email only:  
sps.school.committee@somersetschools.org 
Somerset Town Clerk Caitlin Hadala– By email only: chadala@town.somerset.ma.us  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
