===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
May 2, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 89 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Rosann DiPietro, Esq.  
175 Derby Street 
Hingham, MA 02043 
 
 
 RE: Open Mee
 ting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney DiPietro: 
This office received a complaint from Doreen Healy on March 25, 2022, alleging that the 
Tewksbury School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on February 15, 2022, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Committee by letter dated March 8, 2022.1 In her complaint, Ms. 
Healy alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law during its February 9 meeting 
when on two occasions Chairman Keith Sullivan whispered to other members of the Committee 
in a matter that was not audible to the public.   
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
in th
e ways alleged. We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 
29.07(1) after reviewing the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, and 
the request for review of the complaint.  We also viewed a video of the Committee’s February 9 
meeting.
2 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to 
the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a 
public body shall be open to the public.”).  Generally, access to a meeting must include the 
opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the 
members of the public body. See OML 2020-100; OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54.
3 A “meeting” 
is defined, in relevant part, as a “deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
2 The video of the February 9 meeting is available online at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pRQsJtJGejk. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, §18. “Deliberation” is defined as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction,” with limited exceptions not relevant 
here. Id. For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the 
members of the public body. Id. The Committee is a five-member body; therefore, a quorum of 
the Committee is three members. 
The complaint alleges that on two occasions during the Committee’s February 9 meeting, 
Cha
ir Sullivan whispered to another member of the Committee in a manner that was not audible 
to the public, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  Specifically, the complaint alleges that 
Chair Sullivan whispered to Committee member Nicholas Parsons that there were five minutes 
remaining for public comment, who then announced to the attendees what was whispered to him.  
The complaint also alleges that later in the meeting Chair Sullivan whispered something 
inaudible to Committee member Bridget Garabedian, who did not announce what Mr. Sullivan 
whispered to her.  We find that neither instance violated the Open Meeting Law.   
 Because the Open Meeting Law applies to communications between or among a quorum 
of a publ
ic body, a communication between less than a quorum does not constitute deliberation, 
as long as the communication is not relayed to a quorum of members in a serial manner outside 
of a posted meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, §18; see also OML 2021-176 (finding no violation of the 
Open Meeting Law when text messages exchanged between public body members during a 
meeting did not include or reach a quorum of the board). After reviewing the video recording of 
the February 9 meeting, we find that the first alleged instance of whispering—Chair Sullivan 
telling Mr. Parsons that there were five minutes remaining—was clearly audible even prior to 
Mr. Parsons repeating it to the public. Therefore, this comment did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. Furthermore, even if the comment had been inaudible, a brief communication from Chair 
Sullivan to another member that did not include or reach a quorum would not constitute 
“deliberation” subject to the Open Meeting Law in any event. For this reason, we find that the 
second alleged instance of whispering—where the meeting video shows Mr. Sullivan leaned 
over and whispered to Ms. Garabedian in a manner that was not audible to the public—also did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law.     
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Mee
ting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
Assisted by: Lakshmi Swami, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Doreen Healy (via email:  
 Tewksbury School Committee Chair, Br idget L. Garabedian      
  (via email:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
