===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 1, 2016 
OML 2016-150 
Femand J. Dupere, Esq. 
Dupere Law Offices 
94 North Elm Street, Suite 307 
Westfield, MA 01085 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Dupere: 
This office received a complaint from Gerard Russell of the Worcester Telegram & 
Gazette on August 12, alleging that the Barre Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the 
Board on or about June 8 and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated June 24. 
The complaint alleges that the notice for the Board's May 16 meeting failed to indicate that it 
planned to vote on a particular topic. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notice and open session minutes from the Board's May 16 meeting. 
We find the facts as follows. On May 16, the Board held a meeting to conduct 
interviews for the position of Fire Chief. The meeting notice, timely posted to the Town 
website on May 11, listed the topics as follows: 
Call To Order 
Fire Chief Interviews 
Executive Session, MGL Chapter BOA, Sec. 21, Paragraph 2 (Discuss strategy with 
respect to contract negotiations for Fire Chief), if needed 
Adjournment 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
During the meeting, the Board interviewed six candidates. The minutes do not 
summarize any of the questions posed by the Board or the responses from the candidates. At 
the end of the last interview, the Board used scoring sheets to numerically rate the applicants. 
The minutes do not indicate whether the Board members disclosed their individual scoring 
sheets to the public during the meeting. The Board voted to offer the Fire Chief position to 
the highest ranked candidate, and if he did not accept, then offer the position to the second 
highest ranked candidate. According to the minutes, the Board then went into executive 
session "under MGL 30A, Section 21, Paragraph at 2." Although the Board did not identify 
the specific candidate to be discussed in executive session, the Board discussed strategy for 
negotiating with Richard Stevens, Jr., who was the highest ranked candidate. Mr. Stevens 
ultimately withdrew his application following this meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body must post notice of every meeting at 
least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). Notices must include "a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." Id. The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). Public 
bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any of ten puiposes enumerated in the Open 
Meeting Law, provided that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the 
purpose for the executive session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); see also District Attornev for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Way land, 455 
Mass. 561, 567 (2009) ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive 
session is necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only notification given to 
the public that the school Board would conduct business in private, and the only way the 
public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper."). This level of detail 
about the executive session topic must also be included in the meeting notice. See G.L. c. 3 A, 
§ 20(b). One purpose allows a public body to convene in executive session "[t]o conduct 
strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct 
collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 
3OA, § 21(a)(2) ("Purpose 2"). 
The complaint alleges that the Board's May 16 meeting notice should have indicated 
that it planned to make a decision on the Fire Chief position following the interviews. We 
have previously found that it is reasonably foreseeable that a public body may hold a vote 
following discussion of a topic listed on a meeting notice, even where the notice topic does 
not indicate the possibility of a vote. See OML 2015-66; OML 2012-75.2 In this instance, 
while the notice did not specify that the Board may take a vote, the vote that occurred flowed 
naturally from the Board's consideration of a posted agenda item. See OML 2014-102; OML 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
2014-58; OML 2014-44; OML 2014-38. Furthermore, the Board indicated that it might make 
a decision by posting an executive session topic on the notice to discuss negotiation with the 
new Fire Chief "if needed." Accordingly, we find that the posted notice was sufficient to 
inform the public of the open session discussion that occurred, and the Board did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-132; OML 2013-145. 
We remind the Board that, to the extent it is known at the time of posting, a meeting 
notice should list the names of the applicants for interview because it provides the public with 
important information about the candidates under a public body's consideration. See OML 
2015-196. Additionally, public bodies have an obligation to "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The Board's minutes, consisting of two 
pages, are insufficient in summarizing an open meeting that lasted almost four hours. The 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did 
not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what 
occurred. See OML 2016-101. Furthermore, the Open Meeting Law expressly prohibits 
taking votes by secret ballot. See OML 2016-121. According to the minutes, the Board 
attributed a total numerical score to each candidate without disclosing to the public the results 
of the individual Board members' scoring sheets. Although we do not find a violation as 
these issues were not alleged in the complaint, we strongly encourage the Board to amend its 
minutes to include sufficient detail about each discussion topic, including the interviews and 
the Board's scoring process. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Gerard Russell, Worcester Telegram & Gazette 
Barre Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 