===PAGE 1===
      
THE COMMONWEALTH OF 
MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACERJSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
January 3, 2011 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
OML 2011-2 
John Horne 
Dear Mr. Horne, 
Our office has reviewed your complaint dated November 12, 2010 alleging 
violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by the Acton Zoning Board 
of Appeals (the "Board"). The complaint was originally filed with the Board on 
September 7, 2010. The complaint alleges the Board entertained comments by an 
attorney for a party with business before the Board at a public meeting on August 12, 
2010, after the close of the public comment portion of the meeting. We find that the 
Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In making our determination, we reviewed the November 12, 2010 and September 
7, 2010 complaints, the Board's September 21, 2010 response, and the minutes of the 
August 12, 2010 Board meeting. 
The complaint arises from a meeting of the Board that took place on August 12, 
2010 to consider a permit for a 40B development in Acton. The complaint specifically 
alleges that after the Board "closed the meeting to any further input from the public...an 
attorney in the room representing the developer repeatedly interrupted, made comments 
and statements objecting to specific statements by the ZBA Board," and that one Board 
member "used the comments of the attorney as reason for his intention to vote in favor of 
the developer." The complaint further alleges that the members of the public 
representing the abutters tried to protest the actions of the attorney, but that the Board 
chairman "waved the abutters off with a statement that no farther input was allowed." 
The permit at issue was approved by the Board by a 2-1 vote. The Board responds by 
stating that "the Board took no new evidence from the developer's counsel or from any 
other person after the close of the public hearing." 

===PAGE 2===
The Open Meeting Law states that "[n]o person shall address a meeting of a 
public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the 
chair, be silent." G.L. c. 30A, §20(f). The law further states that, "[n]o person shall 
disrupt the proceedings of a meeting of a public body. If, after clear warning from the 
chair, a person continues to disrupt the proceedings, the chair may order the person to 
withdraw from the meeting and if the person does not withdraw, the chair may authorize 
a constable or other officer to remove the person from the meeting." Id. The Open 
Meeting Law gives clear authority to the chair of a public body to conduct the meeting 
and regulate who may speak to the body. If the chair determines that a member of the 
public is disruptive, then the chair is empowered to ask that person to leave or have that 
person removed. 
For purposes of our analysis under the Open Meeting Law, our inquiry is limited 
to whether the Board conducted its deliberations in compliance with G.L. c. 30A, §§18- 
25. Though members of the public in attendance at the meeting may feel that they were 
not given equal opportunity for comment, this does not result in a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law. The chair of the Board is ultimately empowered to allow members of the 
public to speak and maintain order over the meeting. 
Although we do not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law, we appreciate the 
Board's direction that for future deliberations, its chairman should "make judicious use of 
the Chairman's prerogative under G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f), to ensure that the Board's 
deliberations proceed without inappropriate interruptions." 
We now consider this complaint resolved and this matter closed. Please contact 
me if you have any questions or believe any of the facts presented to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely 
J‘zat/an Sclarsic / ssistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Kenneth F. Kozik, Chairman, Acton Board of Appeals 