===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 15, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 93 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Shawn MacInnes 
Dartmouth Town Administrator 
400 Slocum Road 
Dartmouth, MA 02747-0985 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. MacInnes: 
 This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on January 15, 2021, alleging that 
the Dartmouth Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on December 16, 2020, and the Board 
responded by letter dated January 5, 2021.1 In his complaint, Patrick Higgins alleges that the 
Board posted a notice less than 48 hours in advance of an “emergency” meeting, to be held on 
December 16 at 4:00 p.m., during which the Board voted to appoint an alternate building 
commissioner.2, 3 Mr. Higgins alleges that the last-minute resignation of the Town’s alternate 
building commissioner did not constitute a genuine emergency under the Open Meeting Law and 
therefore the Board should have given the public at least 48 hours’ notice of the meeting.  
 Following our review, we find that the short-notice resignation of the alternate building 
commissioner, even if unexpected, did not constitute an “emergency,” as that term is defined in 
the Open Meeting Law, and that the Board therefore violated the Open Meeting Law by holding 
a meeting on December 16 without posting notice 48 hours in advance. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also revied a video of the 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 The complaint also alleges that the link on the meeting notice which allowed the public to access the meeting 
remotely, while properly functioning during the meeting, did not work after the meeting was adjourned. We note 
that, even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Mr. Higgins has since 
withdrawn this allegation.  
3 Mr. Higgins also alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to announce the name of each 
member who was participating in the December 16 meeting remotely. Mr. Higgins has since withdrawn this 
allegation after we addressed a similar issue, and found no violation, in OML 2020-168.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Board’s five-minute December 16 meeting, which was posted on YouTube by Dartmouth 
Community Media, and shared with us by Mr. Higgins.  
FACTS 
 We find the facts as follows. Prior to December 15, the Town of Dartmouth’s building 
commissioner resigned, but agreed to continue working as alternate building commissioner while 
the Town searched for a new building commissioner; he then unexpectedly discontinued his role 
as alternate building commissioner. As a result, building permit applications “began piling up.” 
On Tuesday, December 15, at 1:40 p.m., the Board posted notice for an Emergency Meeting to 
be held the next day, December 16, at 4:00 p.m. The meeting notice consisted of two items: the 
appointment of Paul Murphy as an alternate building inspector4 and the appointment of David 
Brunette as an alternate building commissioner. The Board met on December 16 as planned. 
During the meeting, the Board voted to appoint Paul Murphy as an alternate building 
commissioner until a new building commissioner could begin work in January. The Board 
acknowledged during the meeting that the meeting notice contained an error; Paul Murphy 
should have been listed as a candidate for alternate building commissioner, not alternate building 
inspector. The Board took no action regarding David Brunette, because Mr. Brunette did not 
have the qualifications to be an alternate building commissioner.  
DISCUSSION 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that “[e]xcept in an emergency, in addition to any notice 
otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours 
prior to such meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
The Open Meeting Law defines an emergency as “a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or 
set of circumstances demanding immediate action.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18; 940 CMR 29.02. The 
burden of justifying the need for an emergency meeting falls on the public body. See OML 2020-
123. 
 Mr. Higgins alleges that the unexpected resignation of the Dartmouth building 
commissioner did not constitute an emergency under the Open Meeting Law. The Board 
responded that because the prior commissioner gave last-minute notice to the Town 
Administrator that his responsibilities in his new job precluded him from continuing to serve as 
alternate building commissioner, the Board needed to call an emergency meeting to appoint 
another alternate building commissioner. 
 We are not persuaded that the unexpected resignation of the alternate building 
commissioner constituted an “emergency” as defined by the Open Meeting Law. Although the 
resignation was “unexpected,” and we do not disagree that issuing building permits and 
reviewing building permit applications are important municipal functions that affect the public, 
the Board has not demonstrated why the replacement “demand[ed] immediate action,” that is, 
action that could not wait one additional day to enable posting notice to the public 48 hours in 
advance of the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. We therefore find that the Board violated the Law 
by failing to post notice of the meeting 48 hours in advance.  
 
4 The Board clarified during it meeting that the reference on the notice to alternate building inspector was a typo and 
that Paul Murphy was being considered for alternate building commissioner. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to post notice of the Board’s December 16 meeting 48 hours in advance. We order the 
Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board 
that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence 
of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. As Mr. Murphy is no longer serving as the acting 
building commissioner, and a new, permanent building commissioner has been hired, we order 
no further remedial action. 
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
     
 Sincerely, 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by: Nicholas Papazyan, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via e-mail:  
  
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
