===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 13, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 78 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Elizabeth Lydon, Esq.  
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Lydon: 
This office received a complaint from Ginny Kremer on January 3, 2022, alleging that the 
Southborough Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on October 29, and you responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated November 10.1 In her complaint, Ms. Kremer alleges that the 
Board failed to follow proper procedure when entering an executive session during an October 5 
meeting. Ms. Kremer also alleges that the Board failed to timely approve both open and 
executive session minutes of an August 17 meeting.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in two 
respects. First, the initial open session portion of the Board’s October 5 meeting was not 
accessible to the public. Second, the Board failed to timely approve both open and executive 
session minutes of an August 17 meeting. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for 
further review. We also reviewed the notice, open session minutes and executive session minutes 
of the Board’s August 17 and October 5 meetings. Finally, we corresponded with you by email 
in March of 2022.3  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 The complaint also alleges that the Board’s executive session minutes were not on file with the Town Clerk within 
the timeframe required by a town by-law. We note that, even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation 
of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Accordingly, we decline to review it. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing 
Authority Board of Commissioners). 
3 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
DISCUSSION 
1. The initial open session of the Board’s October 5 meeting, during which the Board voted 
to enter executive session, was not accessible to the public.  
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Meetings of a public body must be open to members of 
the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21. Governor 
Baker’s March 12, 2020, Executive Order suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting 
Law, and then a June 16, 2021, Act Relative to Extending Certain Covid-19 Provisions Adopted 
During the State of Emergency, allowed public bodies to provide “adequate, alternative means” 
of public access to the deliberations of the public body rather than providing the public with in-
person access to a meeting. “Adequate, alternative means” may include providing public access 
through telephone, internet, or satellite enabled audio or video conferencing or any other 
technology that enables the public to clearly follow the proceedings of the public body in real 
time. If access to a meeting of a public body is to be provided through “adequate, alternative 
means,” the meeting notice must include clear instructions for accessing the meeting remotely. 
See OML 2020-102. 
Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Prior to entering executive session, 
a public body must convene in open session. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(b)(1). A majority of members of 
the body must vote to go into executive session; the chair must state the purpose for the 
executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose 
for which the executive session was called; and the chair must state whether the open session 
will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 22(b)(2)-(4). 
  The Board’s counsel acknowledges that the initial open session portion of the Board’s 
October 5 meeting was not accessible to the public. During this period, the Board’s only business 
was to complete the procedural steps need to enter executive session. However, the public has a 
right to witness these procedural steps in order to observe the vote and learn the purpose for the 
executive session. See OML 2019-47; OML 2013-195.4 Although Board members were able to 
participate in the Zoom meeting, all members of the public remained in the “waiting room,” 
where they could not observe the Board’s announcements and vote to enter executive session. As 
the Board failed to provide public access to this portion of the meeting, which the public was 
entitled to view, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2020-47.  
2. The Board failed to timely approve both open and executive session minutes of an 
August 17 meeting. 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
 
4 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes must be reviewed 
and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Open Meeting Law itself does not 
define “timely manner.” However, the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations 
provide that “timely manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 
days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.” 940 
C.M.R. 29.11 (2). Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at 
the next meeting. See OML 2019-39; OML 2014-15; OML 2012-91. 
 Here, the Board approved both the open and executive session minutes from an August 
17 meeting at an October 5 meeting. In its response, the Board argues that approval of the 
executive session minutes was permissibly delayed until the Board convened a subsequent 
executive session for a purpose besides the approval of minutes. This is incorrect. The Open 
Meeting Law regulations refer to timely approval as being within the next three “public body 
meetings,” not within the next three meetings at which a public body otherwise chooses to enter 
executive session. 940 CMR 29.11(2); see also OML 2021-169; OML 2020-135. The Open 
Meeting Law and regulations also make no exception for special meetings, or meetings not 
“normally scheduled,” for purposes of timely approval of minutes. See OML 2022-32; OML 
2019-11. As the October 5 meeting was six meetings, and more than 30 days, after the August 17 
meeting, we find that the Board failed to timely approve both the open and executive session 
minutes of the August 17 meeting.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in 
two respects. First, the initial portion of the Board’s October 5 meeting was not accessible to the 
public. Second, the Board failed to timely approve both open and executive session minutes of 
the August 17 meeting. We note that the Board was found in violation of the Open Meeting Law 
for failure to timely approve meeting minutes in OML 2019-133. We order the Board’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a 
determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Ginny Kremer (via e-mail:  
 Southborough Board of Selectmen (via e-mail: ) 
 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 