===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 17, 2024  
  
OML 2024 – 133 
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
Michael R. Minardi 
Swansea Board of Assessors 
Swansea Town Hall 
81 Main Street 
Swansea, MA 02777 
MMinardi@swanseama.gov 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints  
 
Dear Mr. Minardi:  
 
This office received three complaints from Patrick Higgins on May 7, 2024, alleging that 
the Swansea Board of Assessors (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.  The complaints originally were filed with the Board on February 19, March 7 and April 
12.1  You responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated April 22.  The complaints allege that 
the Board (1) did not respond within 10 days to a request for minutes of executive sessions held 
during the calendar years 2021, 2022, 2023, and 2024;2 (2) did not respond timely to Open 
Meeting Law complaints filed on February 11, February 19 and March 7; (3) held a meeting on 
March 13 at an inaccessible location; and (4) improperly posted a meeting notice which included 
the names and addresses of applicants for abatements.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
failed to respond to a request for meeting minutes and failed to respond to complaints in a timely 
manner.  We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged.  
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaints, the Board’s responses to the 
complaints, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed the notice of the 
March 13 meeting and communications between the complainant and the Board exchanged prior 
to the request for minutes of February 1.  We also communicated via email with the Board 
chair.
3 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 202 4. 
2 In his original complaint, the complainant alleged that open session minutes also had not been provided.  However, 
in his request for review, the complainant limited this allegation to minutes of executive sessions. 
3 We refer to you in the third person hereinafter for the sake of clarity. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
  
We find the facts as follows.  On December 27, 2023, the complainant faxed to the Board 
a “request pursuant to the open meeting law.”  The correspondence read in part: “I am requesting 
a copy of the meeting minutes for all meetings of your public body, both open session and 
executive session, for the calendar years 2020, 2021, 2022, and 2023.  The open meeting law 
requires your response within 10 CALENDAR days.”   
 
On January 4, Town Clerk Diane Pelland sent an email to the complainant “providing. . . 
a link to research the [Board’s] meeting minutes.”  The email included the following link: 
https://cms8.revize.com/revize/swanseama/government/board of assessors/agendas minutes.
php.  Mr. Higgins responded later that afternoon, noting that “[t]he request for minutes, pursuant 
to the open meeting law, also requested executive session minutes for the calendar years 2020, 
2021, 2022 and 2023.”  In a separate email that afternoon, the complainant also stated that “[t]he 
November 2023 meeting minutes are also NOT available on the website at the link you provided.  
Draft minutes are REQUIRED to be provided upon request under the open meeting law.”  The 
Board did not respond to either of the two emails that Mr. Higgins sent on the afternoon of 
January 4.  On February 1, the complainant faxed a request to the Board, substantially identical 
to the request of December 27, 2023, except that it did not seek minutes of meetings held in 2020 
but did seek minutes of open sessions and executive sessions for the year 2024.  The Board did 
not respond to the request of February 1.  On February 19, Mr. Higgins filed a complaint with 
the Board based on the Board’s failure to respond to his request of February 1.  The Board met 
on March 28 to discuss that complaint.   
 
The Board also held a meeting at Town Hall, located at 81 Main Street, on March 13.  
The location of the Board’s meeting only held five chairs.  Additionally, the complainant alleges 
that the room is not accessible by wheelchair.  According to the Board, the Town of Swansea has 
a shortage of meeting space and the Town Hall meeting room is used only as a last resort.  The 
door is propped up during meetings.  During the March 13 meeting, the Board convened in 
executive session to discuss applications for tax abatement.  The applicant and property address 
of each abatement application were identified in the meeting notice. 
 
DISCUSSION 
   
I. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it failed to respond to a request for 
meeting minutes in a timely manner. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The Law further states that “[m]inutes 
of all open sessions shall be created and approved in a timely manner,” while requiring that 
minutes of executive sessions be “review[ed]” “at reasonable intervals” to determine whether 
continued nondisclosure is warranted.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1).  See also 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Swansea Board of Selectmen v. Attorney General, Civil Action No. 2173CV00906 (Bristol Sup. 
Ct. December 27, 2023); OML 2024-37; OML 2024-29.4 
 
Although “reasonable interval” is not defined by the Law, our office has found a 
quarterly review or a review every six months to be appropriate.  See OML 2020-101; OML 
2019-45; OML 2017-104.  Furthermore, the Open Meeting Law requires that: 
 
Upon request by any person to inspect or copy the minutes of an executive session 
or any portion thereof, the body shall respond to the request within 10 days 
following receipt and shall release any such minutes not covered by an exemption 
under subsection (f); provided, however, that if the body has not performed a 
review [to determine whether continued nondisclosure is warranted], the public 
body shall perform the review and release the nonexempt minutes, or any portion 
thereof, not later than the body’s next meeting or 30 days, whichever first occurs. 
A public body shall not assess a fee for the time spent in its review. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). 
 
Pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, the public body has until the earlier of 30 days or its 
next meeting to review and release nonexempt minutes in response to a request for executive 
session minutes.  However, it still must provide an initial response to the requester within 10 
days, notifying the requester that it is conducting the review.  See OML 2024-24; OML 2013-
99.5  The Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it failed to respond to the complainant’s 
request for executive session minutes within 10 days of his request.   
 
II. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it failed to respond to Open Meeting 
Law complaints in a timely manner. 
 
Pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, a public body must meet to review the complaint’s 
allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the complainant a response and a 
description of any remedial action taken within 14 business days after receiving the complaint, 
unless an extension has been granted by the Attorney General.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 
CMR 29.05(5).  The Board’s responded to the complaints of February 19 and March 7 on April 
22, much later than the 14-day deadline imposed by the Open Meeting Law.  Therefore, we find 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 The Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/info-details/frequently-asked-questions-about-the-open-
meeting-law#frequently-asked-questions-about-executive-session-minutes- , also provides guidance on responding 
to a request for executive session minutes: 
 
What process must public bodies follow for reviewing executive session minutes in response to a 
request for minutes? 
. . . [I]f the public body receives a request for executive session meeting minutes, it must respond to the 
request within 10 days and release any minutes or portions thereof that have already been approved for 
public release.  If the requested minutes or portions thereof have not been approved for release, the public 
body must review those minutes and release “the non-exempt minutes, or any portion thereof, not later than 
the body’s next meeting or 30 days, whichever first occurs.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f).  Regardless, it must 
provide an initial response within 10 days of the request.
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in failing to timely respond to complaints filed by 
Mr. Higgins.  We also note that the Board’s response to the complaints evidences some 
confusion between the procedure to respond to an open meeting law complaint and the procedure 
to respond to a request for meeting minutes.  We commend Principal Assessor Minardi for 
voluntarily undergoing Open Meeting Law training and encourage the Board to make use of our 
office’s resources to further educate itself about the Law.  
 
III. The Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it held its March 13 meeting at 
the Town Hall meeting room. 
 
At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement that meetings of public bodies be 
open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except when meeting in executive 
session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”).  Generally, access to a 
meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present as well as to see and hear what is 
being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2020-100; OML 2018-75; OML 
2016-54.  A meeting is not “open to the public” if the door to the building where it is being held 
is locked.  OML 2023-99.  Public bodies must hold public meetings in a location with accessible 
parking, access to the building, and access to the meeting room.  See OML 2019-90.   
 
The Board has acknowledged that space is “tight” in the Town Hall room where the 
March 13 meeting went forward.  However, the Board maintains that there is sufficient space, at 
least for abatement applicants.  Moreover, the building is equipped with a wheelchair ramp and 
complies with ADA requirements, according to the Board.  The complainant has not detailed a 
specific incident when he or another member of the public was denied access to a Board 
meeting.  Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body's account of the 
facts.  See OML 2023-121; OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141; see also LaPointe v. License Board 
of Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) (“There is every presumption in favor of the honesty and 
sufficiency of the motives actuating public officers in actions ostensibly taken for the general 
welfare.”)  We therefore find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law’s 
requirement of accessibility.   
   
IV. The Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it identified the applicant and 
property address of applications for tax abatement to be discussed in executive session. 
 
One permissible reason for executive session is Purpose 7, which permits a public body 
to convene in executive session “to comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or 
special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7).  If a public body 
enters executive session under Purpose 7, it must cite the specific general or special law, or 
federal grant-in-aid requirement, that requires confidentiality or requires the public body to meet 
behind closed doors.  See Dist. Attorney for N. Dist. v. School Committee of Wayland, 455 
Mass. 561, 569 (2009) (explaining that the proper use of Purpose 7 to enter executive session 
requires the enumeration of the enabling law).  Massachusetts General Laws state that 
applications for tax abatement or exemption may only be disclosed to a select group of public 
officials, though certain information about the application must be made public if it is granted. 
G.L. c. 59, § 60.  If a Board of Assessors plans to discuss the content of an application for tax 
abatement or exemption, the Board may convene in executive session under Purpose 7, “to 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
comply with, or act under the authority of, any general law,” citing G.L. c. 59, § 60 as the statute 
requiring confidentiality.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7); OML 2013-144; OML 2012-101. 
 
That a Board of Assessors may keep applications for tax abatement confidential, 
however, does not mean that the Open Meeting Law requires that they be kept confidential.  See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a) (“A public body may meet in executive session only for the following 
purposes:”)(emphasis added).  See also OML 2023-241 (citing G.L. c. 59, § 60 and noting that a 
board of assessors “may” discuss an application for abatement under Purpose 7); OML 2012-
101.  Because the Open Meeting Law does not itself require that abatement applications remain 
confidential, we find that the Board did not violate the Law when it identified the owner and 
address of properties being considered for abatements.  Although the Open Meeting Law gives 
public bodies discretion to decide whether to discuss a matter in executive session and to keep 
certain matters confidential, we caution the Board that this does not mean there may not be a 
consequence for disclosure of confidential information.  Because this decision concerns only 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we do not address whether any other law, regulation, or 
code of conduct may have prohibited the disclosure that occurred.6 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it failed to respond to a request for meeting minutes and failed to respond to complaints in 
a timely manner.  We order immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements and 
we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
   
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
Swansea Town Clerk (via email: dpelland@swanseama.gov) 
Swansea Town Administrator (via email: maronstein@swanseama.gov) 
 
 
6 Further guidance regarding tax abatements may be found at https://www.mass.gov/info-details/frequently-asked-
questions-about-the-open-meeting-law#frequently-asked-questions-about-applications-for-tax-abatement-or-
exemption-  

===PAGE 6===
6 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  