===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 1,2016 
OML 2016-72 
Susan Hazen 
Chair, Board of Registrars 
139 Main Street 
PO Box 351 
Rowley, MA 01969 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Hazen: 
This office received a complaint from Timothy Toomey on April 6, 2016, alleging that 
the Rowley Board of Registrars (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about January 13, 2016, and 
you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated January 28, 2016. In his complaint, 
Mr. Toomey alleges that the Board failed to post notice of a meeting held on January 11, 
2016. Additionally, Mr. Toomey alleges that a third party participated in its executive session 
during this meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notice, open and executive session minutes from the Board's January 11, 2016 
meeting. Finally, we reviewed the court docket for the litigation matter at issue. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On January 11, 2016, the Board held a joint meeting 
with the Rowley Board of Selectmen (the Board of Selectmen) for the sole purpose of 
convening an executive session to discuss an ongoing lawsuit filed by the complainant against 
the Board, the Board of Selectmen, as well as several individuals serving on the Board. The 
meeting notice, posted on January 7, 2016, listed "Open Session" as the first topic, followed 
by an executive session "To discuss litigation strategy- Timothy Toomey v. Barbara R. 
DiMento, Board Registrars, et al, and Board of Selectmen, Superior Court Civil Action 
Docket#1677CV00001." During the meeting, each Board approved a vote by roll call to 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
o 
===PAGE 2===
convene in executive session for the purposes, as stated in the notice, "because an open 
meeting may have [a] detrimental effect on the litigating position of the Town." The Board 
announced that it would not reconvene in open session following the executive session; the 
Board of Selectmen announced that it would reconvene in open session. During the executive 
session, the Board and the Board of Selectmen discussed the topic as described on the notice. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post 
notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies 
may enter a closed, executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open 
Meeting Law, provided that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the 
puipose for the executive session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the puipose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); see also District Attomey for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. Of Wayland. 455 
Mass. 561, 567 ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is 
necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public 
that the school committee would conduct business in private, and the only way the public 
would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper."). This level of detail about 
the executive session topic should also be included in the meeting notice. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). 
The complainant asserts that the Board did not post notice of its January 11, 2016 
meeting. We disagree. The Board posted notice of this joint meeting at least 48 hours in 
advance of the meeting and included a sufficiently detailed list of the anticipated topics. See 
G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b). Specifically, the Board identified the puipose for the executive session-
to discuss litigation strategy- and included the litigation matter to be discussed. See OML 
2015-182. Accordingly, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this regard. 
The complainant also asserts that the Board of Selectmen is not a party to the lawsuit 
and therefore should not have participated in this executive session. To the contrary, the 
Board of Selectmen is a party to the pending lawsuit and therefore had a litigation position to 
protect. See OML 2012-82. Accordingly, the Board of Selectmen and the Board properly 
convened a joint executive session on January 11, 2016.1 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
1 We note that both public bodies properly followed the procedures for convening an executive session. See 
G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(b). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
i 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Timothy Toomey 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 