===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
   
 
August 19, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 168 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Attorney Michele E. Randazzo 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
mrandazzo@k-plaw.com 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Randazzo: 
This office received a complaint from Janice Loux on June 6, 2022, alleging that the 
Williamstown Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 20, 2022, and you responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated May 10, 2022.1 In her complaint, Ms. Loux alleges that a 
quorum of the Board improperly deliberated outside of a public meeting via email. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing the appointment of a permanent Police Chief as specified in the complaint, but that 
the Board did violate the Open Meeting Law when it engaged in serial communication regarding 
other matters within its jurisdiction. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further 
review. We also reviewed the minutes of the November 18 meeting, the Williamstown Charter, 
the Employment Extension Agreements between the Town of Williamstown and the Interim 
Town Manager Charles Blanchard (“Mr. Blanchard”), a video recording of the May 9, 2022, 
meeting,
2 and the Board’s response to Ms. Loux’s public records request dated February 16, 
2022.  
  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 A video recording of the May 9, 2022, meeting may be found at: https://www.willinet.org/municipal-
meetings/select-board/. 
===PAGE 2===
   
 
2 
 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On April 12, the Board executed an employment agreement 
with Charles Blanchard, appointing him to serve a six-month term as “Interim Town Manager.” 
The Board extended Mr. Blanchard’s employment agreement twice: once on October 18, and 
once on November 22. The Second Extension of Employment Agreement (the “Employment 
Agreement”) included language stating that the “Interim Town Manager agrees not to appoint a 
police chief except upon 14 days advance written notice to the Select Board of his intent to 
appoint a specific named individual, which appointment shall not be effective until the expiration 
of such 14-day period.”  
On October 31, Mr. Blanchard emailed Board Chair Andy Hogeland and Member Hugh 
Daley stating that he “would like to negotiate a three-year contact with [Mike Ziemba] to 
become the next Chief of Police” and asking if Chair Hogeland and Member Daley would 
support the proposed contract. Mr. Blanchard sent the same email to Board Members Jane 
Patton, Jeff Johnson and Wade Hasty on November 6.  
Between October 31 and November 21, all five Board members responded to Mr. 
Blanchard’s proposal via email or in person. On October 31, Members Hogeland and Daley set 
plans to discuss the permanent Police Chief appointment in-person with Mr. Blanchard. On 
November 6, Member Patton made plans to discuss the appointment with Mr. Blanchard in 
person. On November 15, Member Hasty emailed Chair Hogeland stating that “[Mr. Blanchard] 
operated under the pretense that he could alter the Interim Police Chief Search Committee 
process” and that he believes he should “have a say as to whether [Mr. Blanchard] is a good fit 
for the current board.” On November 21, Member Johnson sent Mr. Blanchard and Chair 
Hogeland a seven-step plan for hiring a permanent Police Chief, which included discussion of 
Mr. Blanchard’s employment extension. The plan focused specifically on the police chief 
appointment process and did not discuss policy priorities or qualifications to look for in a police 
chief. On November 21, Chair Hogeland circulated a draft of the Employment Agreement to 
Member Daley and presumably to Member Hasty, as evidenced by Member Hasty’s response on 
November 21.  
The complainant filed a public records request with the Board on February 16, 2022, in 
which she requested “Any and all records . . . regarding [t]he interim town manager[‘]s 
employment contract and extension contract, conditions of employment, and job description 
including any clause or addendum that limits or grants the power to the interim town manager to 
name or appoint a permanent police chief.” In response to the request, the Board released 
numerous emails from the time period ranging from October 31 to November 21. The total email 
correspondence among the Members during this time period comprised nearly 45 pages. The 
emails primarily concerned Mr. Blanchard’s proposal to appoint a permanent Police Chief. 
However, emails between Chair Hogeland, Member Hasty, Member Daley, and Member 
Johnson also concerned the extension of Mr. Blanchard’s employment agreement.  
DISCUSSION 
1. The Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing the appointment of a 
permanent Police Chief by email.  
===PAGE 3===
   
 
3 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be noticed and that 
meetings be open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-
(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction ....” Id. A 
discussion is outside a body's jurisdiction where it concerns a decision over which the body has 
no authority. See OML 2022-132; OML 2021-90; OML 2017-88.
3 Public bodies do not violate 
the Open Meeting Law when they advise an official on a decision that the official has sole 
authority to make outside of the public body’s jurisdiction. See OML 2015-93. Similarly, we 
have explained that public bodies do not violate the Open Meeting Law when they provide input 
to another public body on a matter that is solely within the other public body’s jurisdiction. See, 
e.g., OML 2022-132; OML 2021-90. For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is “a 
simple majority of the members of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2022-3.  
The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating via 
email about the “hiring of a permanent police chief in Williamstown.” The Board concedes that 
its members communicated outside of an open meeting when they discussed the Police Chief 
appointment via email. However, the Board argues that “It is not an [Open Meeting Law] 
violation for the Town Manager to communicate with members of any public body, including the 
Select Board, on a topic within his jurisdiction, in an advisory capacity.” We therefore consider 
whether the matter discussed in the emails indeed falls within the Board’s jurisdiction. 
 
The Williamstown Charter (the “Charter”) authorizes the Board to appoint a “Temporary 
Manager” to “perform the duties of the [Town Manager]” while the Board searches for a new, 
full-time Town Manager. Williamstown Charter, Section 12. The Charter grants the Town 
Manager authority to “supervise and direct the administration of all departments, commissions, 
boards and offices of the town, except those elected by the voters, or appointed by the [Board] or 
by the Moderator.” Williamstown Charter, Section 15(a). The Charter also authorizes the Town 
Manager to “appoint and remove such other officers and employees as he deems necessary to 
carry out the powers and duties imposed upon him by this Act.” Williamstown Charter, Section 
15(c).  
The Employment Agreement requires Mr. Blanchard to provide “14 days advance written 
notice to the Select Board” if he chooses to appoint a permanent Police Chief. The complainant 
argues that this contractual clause “suggests a contractual control over the hiring of a police chief 
by the [Board].” We disagree. We find that this clause, in attempting to regulate the conditions 
under which Mr. Blanchard appoints the Police Chief, in fact acknowledges that the Temporary 
Town Manager possesses sole jurisdiction over the Police Chief appointment.  
After reviewing the plain language of the Charter and the Employment Agreement, we 
find that the authority to appoint the Williamstown Police Chief rests exclusively with the Town 
Manager. See Williamstown Charter, Section 12; Section 15(a). We find no indication, in the 
Charter or elsewhere, that the Board is vested with any authority with regard to the appointment 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
   
 
4 
 
of the Police Chief. We note that the Board did not, for example, merely delegate its own 
authority to appoint a Police Chief to the Town Manager. Rather, the Charter vests the full 
authority to appoint a Police Chief with the Town Manager, and by extension, the Temporary 
Town Manager, who “perform[s] the duties of the office.” See Williamstown Charter, Section 
12; Section 15(a). We find Mr. Blanchard to be serving the role of the “Temporary Town 
Manager” as named in the Charter. See Williamstown Charter, Section 12. We find that the 
decision to appoint a permanent Police Chief rests entirely within the jurisdiction of Mr. 
Blanchard in his role of Temporary Town Manager. Further, we note that the Board only 
provided Mr. Blanchard with input as to the process of appointing a Police Chief, and did not 
discuss or convey policy goals or qualifications for a police chief. Therefore, the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing the Police Chief appointment via email. 
2. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing the extension of the Interim 
Town Manager’s employment agreement outside of an open meeting.  
The complaint specifically requested our review of the Board’s discussion regarding the 
“hiring of a permanent police chief in Williamstown.” While we find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to its discussion of hiring a permanent police chief as 
that topic was not within the Board’s jurisdiction, we caution the Board that various other 
elements of its discussion fell within its jurisdiction. Specifically, we find that Member Johnson, 
Member Hasty, Member Daley, and Chair Hogeland discussed extending Mr. Blanchard’s 
contract via email. While our office limits its review to the issues included in the original 
complaint, we cannot ignore that at least four of the five Board members discussed an issue 
entirely within their jurisdiction via email, outside of an open meeting.  
A public body may not engage in a serial communication whereby a quorum 
communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a particular subject 
matter within the public body's jurisdiction. See OML 2015-3; OML 2012-84; OML 2011-27; 
McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that private serial communications 
violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to circumvent the intent of the 
Law). Extending Mr. Blanchard’s Employment Agreement is a matter within the Board’s 
jurisdiction and is precisely the type of deliberative action that the Open Meeting Law requires 
be conducted in an open and accessible manner. See OML 2020-83; OML 2018-6. 
The Board argues that a quorum of members never engaged in deliberation on issues 
within the Board’s jurisdiction, and that the emails do not amount to “serial communication.” We 
disagree. We find the November 21 emails between Chair Hogeland, Member Daley, and 
Member Hasty, as well as the November 22 email between Chair Hogeland and Member 
Johnson to demonstrate that the Board members engaged in private non-contemporaneous 
discussion specifically regarding the extension of Mr. Blanchard’s employment agreement.  
The Board acknowledges that “there were a few isolated e-mails that covered topics both 
within and outside of the Board’s jurisdiction” and that “there is room for the perception that a 
quorum of the Board engaged in an e-mail ‘deliberation’ under the Open Meeting Law.” The 
Board contends that it cured any potential violations when it disclosed the offending e-mails to 
this office and to the complainant, and when the Board publicly discussed the Open Meeting 
Law complaint during its May 9, 2022, meeting. Although we commend the Board for taking 
these remedial actions, we find that this action was insufficient to fully remedy the violation.  
===PAGE 5===
   
 
5 
 
We find that disclosing the emails to one community member and our office is 
insufficient to inform the public of the discussions regarding the extension of Mr. Blanchard’s 
employment agreement. We order the Board to make the emails available to the public, either by 
reading them aloud at an open meeting, or by attaching the emails to the minutes of an open 
meeting. See OML 2022-3.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that although the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by discussing the appointment of a permanent Police Chief, it did violate the Open 
Meeting Law by discussing other topics within its jurisdiction via email. We order the Board’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a 
determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. We also order the Board to make the emails about the 
extension of Mr. Blanchard’s employment agreement available to the public in one of the ways 
listed above. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
Assisted by: Emily Johnson, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government  
 
cc:
 Janice Loux (via e-mail: ) 
 Williamstown Select Board (via e-mail: selectboard@williamstownma.gov) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
