===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 29, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 202 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Chair Michael Doherty  
Southwick Planning Board 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Doherty: 
This office received ten complaints from Kevin Meder on August 19, 2021, alleging that 
the Southwick Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Board on June 24, and the Board responded 
by letter dated July 16.1 In his complaints, Mr. Meder alleges that the Board posted insufficiently 
specific meeting notices and approved insufficiently detailed meeting minutes for ten meetings 
from January 5 through May 25.2  
Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public 
body within 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged violation could 
not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed within 
30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered. 940 CMR 29.05(3). When an 
alleged violation occurs in open session, the alleged violation can reasonably be discovered at 
the time it occurs. See OML 2014-85; OML 2012-52.3  
We decline to review any allegations regarding insufficient meeting notices of Board 
meetings that took place more than 30 days prior to the date the complaints were filed, June 24, 
as they could have been discovered at the time the meetings took place. See OML Declination 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 We decline to review any additional allegations made in the request for further review. Our office does not conduct 
broad audits of public bodies and will address only allegations made in an Open Meeting Law complaint in order to 
give public bodies a chance to address those allegations. See OML Declination 4-22-15; OML Declination 8-25-
2015; OML 2013-118; OML 2013-60. 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
10-9-12 (Falmouth Board of Selectmen). Similarly, we decline to review any meeting minutes 
which were approved more than 30 days prior to June 24.  
Following our review of the remaining complaints, we find that 1) the Board’s meeting 
notice for a May 25 meeting was insufficiently specific, and 2) the meeting minutes of the 
Board’s May 12 and 25 meetings were sufficiently detailed. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s response to the complaints, and the complainant’s 
request for further review. We also reviewed the May 25 meeting notice and the May 12 and 25 
meeting minutes. We reviewed the Bailey Project public hearing notice. We emailed with Chair 
Doherty on several occasions in October and November of 2021 and spoke with him by phone 
on October 19.4 Finally, we reviewed video recordings of the Board’s May 12 and May 25 
meetings.5 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. In early 2021, the Southwick Town Planner was contacted 
by representatives from Brinkmann Construction regarding their interest in building a large 
commercial facility on a parcel of land located at 686 College Highway in Southwick. The 
proposed project, named the “Bailey Project” by the Brinkmann representatives, required several 
permits from the Board in order to move forward. The Town Planner updated the Board about 
his communications with Brinkmann’s representatives during Board meetings held on January 5, 
January 19, February 9, March 16, March 30, April 13, and April 27. 
The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on May 12, which included the topic 
“Town Planner’s Report.” At the Board’s May 12 meeting, during the “Town Planner’s Report,” 
the Town Planner informed the Board that he had received and reviewed extensive drainage 
plans for the Bailey Project. Between the May 12 and 25 meetings, the Town Planner prepared 
and posted the legal notice for the Bailey Project public hearing, which was scheduled to take 
place during the Board’s May 25 meeting. The public hearing notice identified the property by 
address and the name of the applicant – Brinkmann Construction. The public hearing notice 
described the project as construction of a “vehicle processing facility.” 
Separate from the public hearing notice, the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held 
on May 25. The meeting notice included the topic “Baily (sic) Project Special Permit.” During 
the Board’s May 25 meeting, the Board held a special permit hearing about the Bailey Project, 
which lasted over an hour. The hearing included a presentation by the applicant’s representative, 
questions from the Board, and public comment. The first mention of the name of the intended 
occupant of the used car processing facility, Carvana, was made by the applicant’s representative 
during his presentation at the May 25 meeting. 
Mr. Meder filed his Open Meeting Law complaints with the Board on June 24. In July 
2021, following public opposition, the applicant withdrew the application for special permits for 
the Bailey Project. 
 
4 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
5 The video recordings may be accessed here: 
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCsmdX0ZAonPknkMXuHP2tvg/videos  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Board’s notice for the May 25 meeting was insufficiently specific. 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post 
notice of each meeting and include in that notice a “listings of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). These topics must be listed 
with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to include 
sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2019-70.  
When the chair delegates to another person responsibility for creating the meeting notice, 
the notice also must include the topics that person anticipates will be discussed 48 hours before 
the meeting. See OML 2020-164. When reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is 
clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting notice standing alone. See OML 
2021-180; OML 2015-109. Rather, we review what the public body actually discussed at the 
meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently specific to make the public aware of the 
discussion topics. Id. 
 The complainant alleges that the notice for the Board’s May 25 meeting was 
insufficiently specific because the notice included an item “Bailey Project Special Permit,” 
which did not reasonably advise the public that the intended occupant of the proposed site would 
be the used car company Carvana, nor that the proposed use was a used car processing facility. 
Although including the name of the intended occupant of the site on the meeting notice may have 
been useful to the public, we find that it was not required as neither the Chair nor the Town 
Planner were aware of this detail at the time the meeting notice was posted.6  
 However, we find that the topic “Bailey Project Special Permit” did not reasonably notify 
the public about the nature of the Bailey Project. The Town Planner was certainly aware that the 
Bailey Project concerned a “vehicle processing facility” because the public hearing notice 
described the project as such.7 We find that the meeting notice did not sufficiently advise 
members of the public that the Board would be discussing a large used vehicle processing 
facility. See OML 2019-89 (meeting notice did not sufficiently alert members of the public that 
the Board would be discussing a marijuana establishment—a topic that no doubt was the subject 
of immense public interest—where meeting notice merely contained legal terms not generally 
understood by the public). We therefore find that the Board violated the Law by posting an 
insufficiently specific meeting notice for the May 25 meeting.  
 
6 In general, the Town Planner compiles the topics for the Board’s meeting notices in between meetings and may 
add items that come up between meetings. The Chair does not generally know any specific details of what will be 
discussed during each public hearing.  
7 The Chair has confirmed for us that the public hearing notice was likely not posted along with the Board’s May 25 
meeting notice. Even if the public hearing notice had been posted along with the meeting notice, this would not have 
been sufficient. Attaching documents cannot cure a defective notice; the meeting notice itself must contain all 
information that the Open Meeting Law requires. See OML 2021-138; OML 2021-57; OML 2019-22. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
2. The Board’s minutes of the May 12 and 25 meetings were sufficiently detailed.  
 The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. 
See OML 2016-105. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain 
enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could 
read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106. While 
minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and 
the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented. See OML 2012-29.  
 The complainant alleges that the Board’s May 12 and May 25 meeting minutes are 
insufficiently detailed because they used different names for the same project, instead of naming 
the project after the intended occupant of the proposed site, Carvana. The May 12 meeting 
minutes contain one mention of the project under the heading “Planner’s Report” – “I received 
and reviewed drainage plans for the Bailey project.” We find these minutes to be detailed and 
accurate as the Town Planner merely informed the Board that he had received approximately 300 
pages of plans for what the project’s representatives called the “Bailey project.” The Board did 
not discuss the project at all. We therefore find no violation of the Open Meeting Law in this 
respect.  
 The Board’s minutes of the May 25 meeting contain a detailed summary of the Special 
Permit Hearing for the Bailey Project, which lasted over an hour. The summary captures, in 
extensive detail, the presentation by the applicant’s representative, questions from the Board, and 
public comment. The applicant’s representative mentioned that the intended occupant of the site 
would be Carvana. The meeting minutes reflect the name Carvana. We therefore find that the 
minutes of the May 25 meeting are accurate and sufficiently detailed, and therefore we find no 
violation of the Open Meeting Law with regard to the accuracy of the meeting minutes.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently specific notice for the Board’s May 25 meeting. We find no other 
violations of the Open Meeting Law. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar 
violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. As 
the applicant withdrew the Bailey Project special permit application in July of 2021, and we 
understand the project is no longer moving forward at this time, we order no further remedial 
action.  
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Kevin Meder (via e-mail: ) 
 Southwick Town Clerk Michelle Hill (via e-mail:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
