===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 2, 2014 
OML 2014-108 
Jeffrey T. Shaw 
Vice Chairman 
Uxbridge Board of Selectmen 
21 South Main Street, Room 102 
Uxbridge, MA 01569 
Re: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Shaw: 
This office received a complaint from Gerald Baker, Jr. on July 8, alleging that the 
Uxbridge Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.' The complaint alleges that immediately prior to the Board's May 21 meeting, four of the 
five Board members "conspired outside of an open meeting to elect Jennifer Modica" as Chair of 
the Board. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on June 5. The Board responded 
by letter dated June 24. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
improperly deliberating prior to its May 21 meeting. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the complaint filed with the Board; the Board's response; and the complaint filed with 
our office. Additionally, we reviewed the notice for and minutes of the Board's May 21 
meeting. Finally, we reviewed a video recording of the Board's May 21 meeting. 
FACTS 
We find that facts to be as follows. Shortly before the Board's May 21 meeting, four of 
the five Board members met in the hallway outside the meeting room to discuss, according to the 
Board, "who was going to make motions for who to hold what positions." During the meeting. 
Board member Jeff Shaw moved to elect Jennifer Modica—who was already seated in the 
chair's seat—to be the Board's new chair. Board member Peter Baghdasarian immediately 
objected, noting the Board's discussion prior to the meeting and suggesting that the Board 
' Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
violated the Open Meeting Law. After Ms. Modica explained her reasons for seeking the 
chairmanship, and following some discussion with Mr. Baghdasarian. the Board voted 4-1 to 
elect Ms. Modica as chair, with Mr. Baghdasarian dissenting. Board member Lance Anderson 
then nominated Mr. Shaw to be vice-chair. Although Chair Modica opened the floor for 
discussion, no one spoke. The Board then elected Mr. Shaw to be vice-chair by a vote of 4-1, 
with Mr. Baghdasarian dissenting. 
In recording this discussion, the minutes of the meetings state only that "[t J here was 
discussion regarding the open meeting law," and that following a discussion, the Board elected 
Ms. Modica to be chair and Mr. Shaw to be vice-chair. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law therefore requires that meetings of a public body 
be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Open Meeting Law defines a "meeting," in relevant part, 
as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18. In turn, a "deliberation" is defined, in part, as "an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. 
The Board violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing its leadership positions and the 
process by which it would elect members to those positions outside of the public view prior to its 
May 21 meeting. The Board acknowledged its violation in response to the complaint, writing 
that "[s]hortly before the meeting started, there was a mistake made when we did briefly discuss 
who was going to make motions for who to hold what positions. This was a brief lapse of 
judgment on our part to make and there was no intent to hide things from the public." By way of 
remedial action, the Board Chair provided the Board members with links to the Attorney 
General's Open Meeting Law Guide and the Conflict of Interest Law for municipal employees, 
and requested that all members review the materials. We commend the Board for 
acknowledging its error and taking steps to prevent such violations in the future. 
Although we are concerned by the Board's actions, we do not find that it intentionally 
violated the Open Meeting Law. Rather, the Board appears to have been acting under the 
mistaken belief that this discussion concerned an administrative matter exempt from the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2011-38. We remind the Board that certain 
discussions regarding procedural or administrative matters may relate to public business within a 
body's jurisdiction, such as where the discussion involves the organization and leadership of the 
public body, committee assignments, rules or bylaws for the body, and discussions of whether 
the body should consider or take action on specific topics at a future meeting. IcL 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeetinE. 
===PAGE 3===
Although not raised in the complaint, we note that the minutes of the Board's May 21 
meeting are not sufficiently detailed. A public body must create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, and include "a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The minutes of the Board's May 21 
meeting state only that "[t]here was discussion regarding the open meeting law" and that, 
following a discussion, the Board elected Ms. Modica to be chair and Mr. Shaw to be vice-chair. 
The Board should have provided additional detail about the nature of its discussion, such as 
noting Mr. Baghdasarian's objections. The minutes need not be a transcript of the meeting, but 
should contain enough detail and accuracy that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 
2013-105; 2013-14; OML 2012-29. While it is not necessary to record the comments of every 
speaker, and we acknowledge the difficulty of doing so where there are speakers whose remarks 
may even overlap, if a particular individual speaks at some length or is the only one to offer an 
argument for or against a proposal, that person and his or her comments should be identified in 
the minutes. OML 2013-47; OML 2012-29. We encourage the Board to amend its minutes to 
reflect more fully the discussion that occurred. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by improperly deliberating prior 
to its May 21 meeting. In addition to the action already taken by the Board, we order the 
Board's immediate and future compliance with the Law, and caution the Board that a similar 
future violation may be considered evidence of an intentional violation of the Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
j'onalhan Sclarsic 
/ Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Gerald Baker, Jr. 
David Genereux, Uxbridge Town Manager 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3 