===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 19,2017 
OML 2017-60 
Arthur D. Frank, Jr., Esq. 
Law Offices of Arthur D. Frank, Jr. 
209 Bedford Street, Suite 402 
Fall River, MA 02720 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Frank: 
This office received five related complaints from Patrick Higgins, all dated November 4, 
2016, alleging that the Swansea Board of Assessors, the Swansea Cable Access Oversight 
Committee, the Swansea Library Building Planning Committee, the Swansea Recreation 
Commission, and the Swansea Waterfront Revitalization Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. All five complaints were filed with the respective public bodies on 
October 28, 2016, and the Town of Swansea ("the Town") responded in one consolidated letter 
dated November 4, 2016.1 In the complaints, Mr. Higgins alleges that the public bodies at issue 
failed to indicate the date and time that certain meeting notices were posted. 
We resolve this complaint by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(b), 
and we find that none of the public bodies violated the Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting 
Law states that public bodies must post notice of all meetings. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The 
Attorney General's regulations require that "[t]he date and time that the notice is posted shall be 
conspicuously recorded thereon or therewith." 940 CMR 29.03(1 )(b). The five complaints 
allege that the various public bodies posted meeting notices that failed to indicate date and time 
at which the notices were posted.2 In support of this allegation, the complaints included copies 
1 While not raised in any of the complaints, it is unclear whether all five public bodies met to review the complaints 
before the consolidated response was sent. When an individual files an Open Meeting Law complaint with a public 
body, the chair "shall disseminate copies of the complaint to the members of the public body," and "the public body 
shall review the complaint's allegations." 940 CMR 29.05(3), (5); OML 2015-94. The chair is required to 
disseminate copies and the public body must meet to review the complaint and formulate a response, or meet to 
delegate that authority. See OML 2012-90. We take this opportunity to remind all public bodies addressed in this 
letter of their obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
2 The meetings at issue in the five complaints are as follows; the Cable Access Oversight Committee on October 25, 
2016; the Board of Assessors on October 26,2016; and the Library Building Planning Committee, Recreation 
Commission, and Waterfront Revitalization Committee on October 27, 2016, 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
of notices that lack any stamp or other identifying marks. Along with the consolidated response, 
the Town provided copies of notices that bear faint stamps indicating the date and time of 
posting. The Town asserts that the stamped copies were posted prior to the meetings at issue. 
Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit the public bodies' version of the facts. See 
OML 2015-172. Accordingly, we find that the public bodies complied with the requirement to 
indicate the date and time of posting. In the requests for further review, the complainant argues 
that the stamps on the notices are so faint and faded as to be illegible, and therefore the bodies 
did not conspicuously record the dates and times of posting. See 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). The 
boards made an effort to comply with the Open Meeting Law's requirements, and we find any 
faintness in the stamps did not rise to the level of an Open Meeting Law violation. While the 
town clerk often administers the stamps, we note that public bodies are responsible for ensuring 
that the Open Meeting Law's requirements are met. We encourage public bodies to work with 
clerks in this regard to ensure that all required stamps are legible. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
public bodies addressed herein. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if 
you have any questions. 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. BOA, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
2 