===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 30, 2013 
OML 2013-200 
Bruce Turner, Chair 
Egremont Board of Selectmen 
P.O. Box 268 
Egremont, MA 01258 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Turner; 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Jeremy Pilone, dated July 28, 2013, alleging 
that the Egremont Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board Chair publicly revealed 
confidential information regarding the complainant that the Board had discussed during a June 
12, 2013 executive session. The complaint was filed with the Board on or about June 17, 2013, 
and the Board responded by letter dated June 24, 2013. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the June 17, 2013 complaint filed with the Board; the 
Board's June 24, 2013 response; and the July 28, 2013 complaint filed with our office. 
The Board met on June 12, 2013, and entered into executive session to discuss an 
employment matter. The propriety of the executive session is not at issue in this complaint. 
During that executive session. Officer Jeremy Pilone resigned his employment with the Town's 
police department. An article appeared the next day on the Berkshire Eagle's website,1 titled 
"Egremont Police Department loses 2 officers after 1 resigns." The article states that two 
officers from the Egremont Police Department were recommended for termination by the 
Town's Interim Police Chief during the Board's June 12, 2013 executive session and that— 
' www.berkshireeagle.com. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
according to Board Chair Bruce Turner—had he not resigned. Officer Pilone likely would have 
been put on paid administrative leave until the start of the new fiscal year. Chair Turner 
identified a leadership conflict between Officer Pilone and the Police Chief, and evidence 
submitted that supported the Chiefs recommendation. Chair Turner also referenced Officer 
Pilone's alleged misconduct. 
A public body may enter executive session to conduct a meeting outside of the public's 
view for one or more of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One purpose allows a 
public body to enter executive session "[t]o discuss the reputation, character, physical condition 
or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the 
discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, 
staff member or individual." Id. at § 21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). The minutes of a properly held 
executive session, the notes, recordings or other materials used in the preparation of such 
minutes and all documents and exhibits used at the session, may be withheld from disclosure to 
the public in their entirety as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive 
session, but no longer. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
While a public body may choose to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints 
or charges brought against, an individual behind closed doors, the Open Meeting Law does not 
require that such a discussion occur in executive session. OML 2012-85; OML 2012-32. A 
public body has discretion to enter executive session, and to determine when the purpose for 
entering executive session has concluded. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a); Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham 
Regional School Committee. 402 Mass. 179, 182 (1988). 
Although the law gives public bodies discretion to decide whether to discuss a matter in 
executive session and to keep the minutes from that session confidential, the Open Meeting Law 
does not prohibit, or establish any penalty for, disclosure of information or material discussed 
during that executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21. We therefore find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law, but caution the Board that this does not mean there may not be a 
consequence for disclosure of confidential information. Because this decision concerns only 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, however, we do not address whether any other law, 
regulation, or code of conduct may have prohibited the disclosure that occurred. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider this matter closed. Please contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
DISCUSSION 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 
===PAGE 3===
cc: Jeremy Pilone 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3 