===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 24, 2017 
OML 2017- 120 
Daniel G. Skrip, Esq. 
Tempus Fugit Law LLC 
183 State Street, Floor 2 
Boston, MA 02109 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Skrip: 
This office received a complaint from John Shannon Bianchi, dated February 22, 
2017, alleging that the Nahant Open Space and Recreation Master Plan Committee (the 
"Master Plan Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Master Plan Committee on January 27, 2017, and 
you responded, on behalf of the Master Plan Committee, by letter dated February 6, 2017 
The complaint alleges that the Master Plan Committee failed to post notice of meetings 
and keep meeting minutes. 
Following our review, we find that the Master Plan Committee is a public body 
subject to the Open Meeting Law, and thus violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
comply with the law's notice and minutes requirements. In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed the original complaint, the Master Plan Committee's response to the 
complaint, and the complainant's request for further review, including forty-six 
attachments, filed with our office. We also reviewed the minutes of the Nahant Board of 
Selectmen (the "Board") meetings held on October 1, 2015 and December 15, 2016, as 
well as a video recording of a May 21, 2015 Board meeting.1 Finally, we spoke with Mr. 
Bianchi by telephone on June 15, 2017. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Nahant Town Administrator Act of 1992 
confers upon the Town Administrator the responsibility over the rental and use of all 
property controlled by the Board, subject to the Board's approval. Jeffrey Chelgren was 
appointed Nahant Town Administrator in March 2015. 
1 The video recording can be found at http://www.nahant.org/video/selectmen_may__21_2015/index.html. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ArroRNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
At a May 21, 2015 Board meeting, Mr. Chelgren advised the Board that $18,400 
had been appropriated by the Town for an open space and recreation master plan, which 
would analyze Nahant's existing recreation features. Mr. Chelgren stated that he was 
planning to procure a consultant to help a Master Plan Committee, which did not yet 
exist, create a master plan. The Master Plan Committee would review and assess the 
active and passive recreation facilities and then advise the Board of the adequacy and 
location of existing recreation facilities. Mr. Chelgren informed the Board that it would 
appoint individuals to the Master Plan Committee, and he would discuss such 
appointments at a future meeting. The Board then authorized Mr. Chelgren to sign an 
agreement for an open space and recreation master plan consultant. 
Mr. Chelgren did not consult the Board about appointments to the Master Plan 
Committee. Rather, in June 2015, Mr. Chelgren contacted the complainant and asked if 
he was interested in being appointed to the Master Plan Committee; the complainant 
accepted. By September 2015, Mr. Chelgren had appointed seven individuals from the 
community to the Master Plan Committee, with numerous additional community 
members participating in an advisory capacity. 
The Master Plan Committee held meetings on September 14, September 30, 
October 7, October 14, October 27, November 18, November 23, December 9, and 
December 14, 2015; January 27, February 24, and May 24, 2016; and January 10, 2017. 
The Master Plan Committee posted notice for the following meetings: November 18, 
2015, December 9, 2015, December 14, 2015, May 24, 2016, and January 10, 2017. For 
the November and December meetings, the notices identified the Master Plan Committee 
as the Open Space and Recreation Committee. For the May and January meetings, the 
notices identified the Master Plan Committee as the Open Space and Recreation Master 
Plan Committee. The Master Plan Committee kept minutes only for its October 14, 2015 
meeting. 
Mr. Chelgren appeared before the Board on October 1, 2015 and requested that a 
$24,025 consultant contract be awarded to VM Consulting Engineering LLC. Mr. 
Chelgren then appeared before the Board on December 15, 2016 to review Phase II of the 
open space and recreation master plan and asked the Board for direction in expending a 
$20,000 community grant. At a Master Plan Committee meeting on January 10, 2017, 
VM Consulting Engineering LLC presented the open space and recreation master plan. 
By letter dated February 24, 2016, Nahant Town Counsel Daniel Skrip2 advised 
Mr. Chelgren that the Master Plan Committee was not a public body for purposes of the 
Open Meeting Law as it was assembled by Mr. Chelgren—an individual public official— 
to assist him in gathering information to make a decision that he alone could make such 
that the Master Plan Committee fell within an exemption to the Open Meeting Law 
pursuant to Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991). 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION 
A "public body" subject to the Open Meeting Law is any "multiple-member 
board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative 
branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, 
appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose." G.L. c. 30A, § 
18. The Supreme Judicial Court recognized an exemption to the Open Meeting Law in 
Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991). In Connelly, the 
Court held that where an individual public official creates a committee to advise that 
person on a decision that he has the sole authority to make, that committee is not subject 
to the Open Meeting Law. Connelly, 409 Mass. at 235. 
The complaint alleges that the Master Plan Committee is subject to the Open 
Meeting Law and violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post notices of meetings 
and maintain meeting minutes. Attorney Skrip contends that the Master Plan Committee 
was created at the discretion of the Town Administrator and it therefore falls within the 
Connelly exception. Specifically, Attorney Skrip suggests that where the Town 
Administrator Act confers upon the Town Administrator the responsibility over all 
property controlled by the Board, his creation of the Master Plan Committee, which 
would evaluate the maintenance of recreational properties in Nahant, was merely an 
extension of this responsibility. 
To determine whether a multiple member entity is a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law, there are three factors we consider: 
1. The entity must be "within" government and not excluded from the 
definition of "public body;" 
2. The entity must be a "body" empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a "public purpose." 
See OML 2010-1.3 Here, the Master Plan Committee is within government because it 
was created by the Town Administrator. It also serves a public purpose: assessing active 
and passive recreation space, and beautification of the community. Because the purpose 
of the Master Plan Committee was to compile and analyze information and work 
collaboratively to provide a master plan to the Board, we find that it is a body empowered 
to act collectively. See OML 2016-116. The Master Plan Committee therefore satisfies 
all three factors, and we conclude that the Master Plan Committee is a public body 
subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
We next examine whether the Connelly exception applies. The statute at issue in 
Connelly directly conferred upon the Superintendent the authority to nominate a 
candidate for principal.4 Thus, the committee the Superintendent assembled merely 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www. m ass. go v/ago/openmeeting. 
4 See G.L. c. 71, § 38 (1988 ed.) ("No election, contract, or promotion of a teacher, assistant principal, 
principal, department chairman, director, supervisor, assistant supervisor, school business administrator, 
assistant superintendent, or deputy superintendent shall be made by a school committee unless such person 
3 
===PAGE 4===
assisted him in carrying out his independent and exclusive statutory responsibility. See 
Connelly, 409 Mass. at 235-236. Here, the Town Administrator Act confers upon the 
Town Administrator the responsibility over property only with approval of the Board of 
Selectmen. See Nahant Town Administrator Act, § 10(i) (1992). The Act does not 
provide the Town Administrator with authority to act independently. Id. Mr. Chelgren 
did not have exclusive responsibility over Town property, in that he appeared before the 
Board in May 2015, October 2015, and December 2016 to request authorization for 
procurement of a consultant, awarding of a consultant contract, and the expenditure of a 
community grant. 
We find that the Master Plan Committee is a public body of the Town, not of the 
Town Administrator, and therefore the Connelly exception does not apply. Where the 
Master Plan Committee failed to post notice of its meetings held between September 
2015 and February 2016 and failed to maintain minutes of those meetings, it violated the 
Open Meeting Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Master Plan Committee is a public 
body subject to the Open Meeting Law, and thus violated the law by failing to comply 
with its notice and minutes requirements. We order immediate and future compliance 
with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law. We order the Master Plan Committee to 
create minutes for all preyious meetings to the best of its ability, through whatever means 
are available, including the memories and individual notations of the attendees. 
Compliance with this order should occur within sixty (60) days of receipt of this letter. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Master Plan Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 
- 2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: John Shannon Bianchi 
shall have been nominated for such election, contract or promotion by the superintendent of schools.") 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
4 
===PAGE 5===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
5 