===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 9,2015 
OML 2015-45 
Mark Gildea, Esq. 
Legislative Counsel 
City of Brockton 
45 School Street 
Brockton, MA 02301 
Re: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Gildea: 
This office received a complaint from Kate Archard, dated January 22, 2015, alleging 
that the Brockton City Council ("the Council") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 
18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Council entered into executive session for an 
improper purpose during its December 8 and December 15, 2014 meetings. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Council on December 22, 2014. The Council responded by letter dated 
January 13, 2015. 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Council, the Council's 
response, and the complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed, in camera, the 
minutes of the Council's December 8 and December 15, 2014 executive sessions, which have not 
been released to the public. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Council and the City of Brockton are parties to a civil 
action pending in United States Federal District Court, Brockton Power, et al. v. City of 
Brockton, et al. D. Mass, Docket 1:12-cr-l 1047 LTS. During the Council's December 8, 2014 
meeting, following a roll call vote and statement by the Council President that a discussion in 
open session would be detrimental to the Council's litigating position, the Council entered into 
executive session to discuss litigation strategy. Because the minutes of the executive session 
have not been publicly released, we do not discuss their content in detail here. However, it is 
clear that while in executive session, the Council discussed with its attorneys its litigating 
strategy concerning the Brockton Power matter, including possible settlement. The Council 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
entered into executive session again during its December 15, 2014 meeting, following the same 
procedure, and continued its discussion with its attorneys regarding the litigation and the 
possibility of settlement. 
A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a). Once such purpose allows a public body to enter into executive session to 
"discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have 
a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). Litigation must be pending or clearly and 
imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. See Ferryman v. School Committee of 
Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2013-23.1 
The complaint alleges that it was inappropriate for the Council to discuss a proposed 
settlement agreement in executive session because an open discussion would not have been 
detrimental to the Council's litigating position. The Council met in executive session on the two 
occasions at issue to discuss with its attorneys litigation strategy with respect to a pending civil 
action. As part of that discussion, the Council considered settlement. Discussion of settlement is 
clearly part of litigation strategy, and appropriate for executive session under Purpose 3. See 
OML 2012-70; OML 2013-108; OML 2015-44. Even if certain aspects of the Council's 
litigating position had been publicly disclosed at that time, as the complainant contends, the 
Council was still permitted to discuss its strategy in executive session if holding an open meeting 
may have had a detrimental effect on its litigating position. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). The 
President made the appropriate statement to this effect prior to entering into executive session on 
both occasions, and we are satisfied that the Council had a litigating position to protect. We 
therefore find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve any 
other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Council. Please feel free to 
contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
DISCUSSION 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Brockton City Council 
Kate Archard 
1 OpenMeeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 