===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 15, 2025 
 
       OML 2025-162 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Thomas J. Harrington, Esq.  
Harrington Heep 
tom@harringtonheep.com 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Harrington: 
 
This office received a complaint from Jill Mann on August 1, 2025,
1 alleging that the 
Templeton Select Board (the “Board”) and the Town Administrator2 violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 14, and 
you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated August 1. The complaint relates to 
litigation the Complainant filed against the Town. We understand the complaint to allege that the 
Board 1) convened in executive session on April 23 without first announcing the purpose for the 
executive session; 2) has not timely approved executive session minutes; 3) does “not re-
evaluat[e] [executive session minutes] after 30 days for release”; 4) has failed to respond to 
multiple requests (made between August of 2022 and July 14, 2025) for executive session 
minutes and records and is withholding evidence related to the Complainant’s lawsuit; and 5) 
failed to inform the public of matters related to the Complainant’s lawsuit against the Town. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by either 
failing to periodically review executive session minutes for release or failing to announce and 
record the results of such review. We decline to review the remainder of the allegations for the 
reasons explained below. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, and various emails from the 
Complainant to our office or forwarded to our office by the Complainant. We also reviewed 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and individuals acting as public body members. G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The Open Meeting Law does not apply to individual municipal officials, such as the Town Administrator . 
See OML Declination 3-26-2021 (City of Boston); OML Declination 8-4-2023 (Holyoke Mayor & City Solicitor). 
Therefore, we decline to review whether the Town Administrator violated the Open Meeting Law.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
meeting minutes available online for Board meetings held from January to July, as well as the 
notice and minutes for a Board meeting held on April 23. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Either Failing to Periodically Review 
Its Executive Session Minutes for Release or Failing to Announce and Record the 
Results of Such Review.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minut
es of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Minutes must set 
“forth the date, time and place [of the meeting], the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” Id. The 
Law further states that “[m]inutes of all open sessions shall be created and approved in a timely 
manner,” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c), while requiring that minutes of executive sessions be “create[d] 
and maintain[ed]” and “review[ed]” “at reasonable intervals” to determine whether continued 
nondisclosure is warranted. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a), (g)(1). See also OML 2024-158; OML 2024-
29; Swansea Board of Selectmen v. Attorney General, Civil Action No. 2173CV00906 (Bristol 
Sup. Ct. December 27, 2023). Executive session minutes may be withheld for “as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer; provided, 
however, that the executive session was held in compliance with section 21.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(f). Although “reasonable interval” is not defined by the Law, our office has found a 
quarterly review or a review every six months to be appropriate. See OML 2020-101; OML 
2019-45; OML 2017-104. The results of these periodic reviews must “be announced at the 
body’s next meeting and such announcement shall be included in the minutes of that meeting.” 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). 
 
That
 executive session minutes are not required to be “approved” in a timely manner does 
not leave their creation to the whim of the public body. It is axiomatic that if executive session 
minutes are to be reviewed at reasonable intervals, they must be in existence at the time of 
review. Thus, the Open Meeting Law requires that executive session minutes be created with 
such promptness as to allow for review at reasonable intervals.
3  
 
Finally, a public body’s obligation to review executive session minutes for possible 
rel
ease is ongoing. If a public body reviews executive session minutes and determines that the 
purpose for the executive session remains such that the minutes may continue to be withheld 
from the public, it must continue to review those executive session minutes at reasonable 
intervals until it determines that the reason for secrecy has expired. See OML 2020-101; OML 
2019-133. 
 
3 The Open Meeting Law requires that open session minutes be made available within 10 days of request, “if they 
exist” in draft or approved form. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c) (emphasis added). The Law requires that executive session 
minutes be made available upon request if the lawful purpose of the executive session has been served, without 
explicit reference to whether those minutes exist, and establishes a mandatory review procedure following a request, 
again without consideration of a possibility that minutes may not exist. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f), (g). The Law’s 
assumption that the executive session minutes exist at the time of request militates in favor of prompt creation of  
executive session minutes. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
A review of approximately 17 sets of minutes for Board meetings held between January 1 
and July 14 reveals that during this six-month period the Board made no announcement 
regarding the results of a periodic review of its executive session minutes. Therefore, we find 
that the Board either failed to periodically review its executive session minutes to determine if 
they must be released to the public or failed to announce and record the results of such a review. 
As such, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
II. We Decl
 ine to Review Allegations That Are Not Sufficiently Specific. 
 
Complainants must allege violations with a degree of specificity, as our office will not 
conduct
 broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations. See OML 2023-135; 
OML Declination 7-19-23 (Fairhaven Historical Commission).4 The complaint alleges that the 
Board failed to respond to multiple requests for executive session minutes made between August 
of 2022 and the filing of the present complaint. We decline to review this allegation where the 
complaint does not identify any specific request for meeting minutes to which it is alleged the 
Board failed to respond. See OML 2023-135 (declining to review an allegation that a public 
body failed to respond to a request for meeting minutes where the complaint did not identify any 
particular request for minutes the public body failed to respond to). 
 
On Augus
t 12, in an effort to clarify this issue, our office emailed the Complainant 
explaining that we will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized 
allegations and asking the Complainant to please identify the specific requests for meeting 
minutes she alleges the Board failed to respond to. The Complainant responded by email stating, 
in part, “This has been an [on]going legal matter investigations by the post commission. There is 
almost 3 years of documentation that would take quite a bit of time to go through.” The 
Complainant then forwarded our office an additional 25 emails containing email threads between 
the Complainant and Town officials and legal counsel.  
 
Although we credit the Complainant’s assertion that she has requested executive session 
mee
ting minutes from the Board over the course of the past three years, we find that a general 
allegation that the Board has failed to respond to such requests, without identifying any 
particular request and instead sending our office 26 emails to comb through in hopes of 
discovering a particular request, is exactly the kind of broad audit our office declines to perform. 
See OML 2023-135. Furthermore, based on a cursory review of the emails provided, we could 
not affirmatively identify a request for minutes that was clearly made under the Open Meeting 
Law, as opposed to the Public Records Law or as part of discovery in the litigation matter, and 
for which this complaint would have been timely filed.
5,6      
 
4 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-m eeting-law. 
5 Requests for meeting minutes may fall under the Public Records Law or the Open Meeting Law, depending on 
how the request is made. A request for minutes that is directed to a public body will fall within the Open Meeting 
Law; while a request for minutes that is directed to a clerk or other municipal employee as Records Access Officer 
will likely fall under the Public Records Law. See G.L. c. 66, § 10; OML 2019-126; OML 2019-68. 
6 As we reviewed the present complaint, the Complainant copied our office on her emails with the Town regarding 
executive session minutes and records as well as other matters relating to the Complainant’s litigation with the 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
III. We Decl ine to Review Allegations That Were Not Timely Raised. 
 
Open Meeting Law complaints must be made in writing “using the form approved by the 
Att
orney General and available on the Attorney General’s website.” 940 CMR 29.05(1). Open 
Meeting Law complaints must be filed with the public body alleged to have violated the Law 
within 30 days of the alleged violation, or, if the alleged violation could not reasonably have 
been known at the time it occurred, then within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have 
been discovered. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4). When an alleged violation occurs 
during an open session, the alleged violation is reasonably discoverable at the time it occurs. See 
OML Declination 7-20-17 (Edgartown Planning Board); OML 2014-85, n. 1; OML 2012-52. 
When reviewing the timeliness of a complaint we consider when the action that is alleged to 
have violated the Open Meeting Law was reasonably discoverable, not when an individual 
complainant became aware of the action or of the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. See 
OML Declination 12-18-20 (Pembroke Board of Health); OML Declination 5-21-12 (Montague 
Board of Selectmen). 
 
The B
oard posted notice for a meeting to be held on April 23 at 6:30 p.m. The notice 
included several open session topics and the following executive session topics: “Executive 
Session per MGL Ch. 30a; §21(a)-3 (Strategy RE: collective bargaining with The Police Local 
155); and Per MGL Ch. 30a; §21(a)-2 (Discussion RE: Contract negotiations with nonunion 
personnel~Interim Town Administrator); and Per MGL Ch. 30a; §21-3 (Strategy RE: 
litigation).”
7 At the end of the meeting, after discussing the open session topics, the Board 
convened in executive session.  
 
The complaint alleges that on April 23, the Board failed to announce prior to convening 
in executive session the purposes for the executive session, as is required under the Open 
Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3)(“before the executive session, the chair shall state the 
purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called”). The Board’s failure to 
announce the purposes for convening in executive session was reasonably discoverable on April 
23; therefore, we decline to review this allegation where the complaint was not filed with the 
Board until 82 days after the alleged violation was reasonably discoverable.  
 
 
Town. On September 23, the Complainant sent our office an email asserting that the Town “cannot withhold 
executive sessions because they are withholding evidence that would refute the lawsuit,” and asking that our office 
demand the Town turn over records immediately. The Complainant also reached out to our office several times on 
October 2 requesting that we instruct the Town to turn over records. We clarify for the Complainant that our office 
reviews Open Meeting Law complaints that have been properly filed with the public body and which clearly and 
timely raise alleged violations of the Open Meeting Law; we do not order public bodies to take action based on 
requests made outside the formal complaint process.  
7 The Board also posted notice for a meeting to be held at 5:30 p.m. on April 23, which included an executive 
session topic related to real property. Based on the topics to be discussed in executive session, we understand the 
complaint to relate to the 6:30 p.m. meeting and not the 5:30 p.m. meeting. We take this opportunity to remind the 
Board that when convening in executive session to discuss strategy with respect to litigation or to consider the 
purchase, exchange, lease, or value of real property, the public body must identify the specific litigation matter and 
specific property that will be discussed unless doing so would compromise the purpose for convening in executive 
session. See OML 2024-139; OML 2019-10; OML 2016-152; OML 2016-5. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
IV. We Decline to Review Allegations That, Even if True, Would not Constitute 
Violations of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to “re-evalu ate” its executive session minutes 
every 30 days and failed to inform the public of matters related to the Complainant’s lawsuit 
against the Town. The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Open Meeting Law does not require that a 
public body discuss any particular matter nor that it discuss a matter in any particular depth. 
Rather, the Law requires that if a quorum of a public body discusses a matter within its 
jurisdiction it must do so only during a meeting for which notice was posted and that is open to 
the public, unless a permissible reason exists to discuss the topic in executive session. See G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(a)-(b).  
 
Likewise, the Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body “re-evalu
 ate” its 
executive session minutes every 30 days. Instead, it requires that a public body review at 
reasonable intervals its executive session minutes to determine if they must be released to the 
public. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). As explained above, we have determined that a review every 
quarter or every six months satisfies this requirement. See OML 2019-45; OML 2017-104.  
 
Even if true, allegati
 ons that the Board did not “re-evaluate” minutes every 30 days or 
inform the public of certain matters would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law 
and we therefore decline to review them. Finally, to the extent the complaint alleges that the 
Board failed to provide the Complainant with records other than meeting minutes, we decline to 
review this allegation as well where requests for records other than meeting minutes fall under 
the Public Records Law, not the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 66, § 10; OML Declination 12-
7-2022. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
either failing to periodically review executive session minutes for release or failing to announce 
and record the result of such review. We decline to review the remainder of the complaint’s 
allegations. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law 
and caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the 
Law. We additionally order that within 60 days of the date of this letter the Board review all 
executive session minutes it continues to withhold to determine whether the executive session 
purposes remain ongoing or whether the purposes have been served and the minutes must be 
released to the public. The Board must announce the results of this review at its next open 
session meeting following the review and record the results in the minutes of that meeting.  
 
  
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Jeffrey Bennett, Chair, Templeton Select Board (via email: jbennett@templetonma.gov) 
Carol Harris, Town Clerk (via email: charris@templetonma.gov) 
Jill Mann (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
 
 
