===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON , MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
May 19, 2014 
OML 2014-52 
Robert S. Troy, Esq. 
County Counsel 
Troy Wall Associates 
90 Route 6A 
Sandwich, MA 02563 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Troy: 
This office received an Open Meeting Law complaint from Mr. Eric Bibler, of Save Our 
Seashore, dated January 23, 2014, alleging that the Barnstable County Commissioners (the 
"Commissioners") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint 
specifically alleges that the Commissioners deliberated outside of a meeting prior to their 
December 16, 2013 meeting during which the Commissioners voted to disapprove Resolution 
13-06.' The complaint was originally filed with the Commissioners on December 16, 2013. The 
Commissioners responded by letter dated December 20, 2013. 
Following our review, we find that the Commissioners did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the December 16, 2013 complaint filed with 
the Commissioners; the Commissioners' December 20, 2013 response; and the January 23, 2014 
complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed video recordings of the 
Commissioners' December 11, 2013 and December 18, 2013 meetings.2 We reviewed a 
February 14, 2014 letter from Barnstable County Counsel Robert S. Troy, written in response to 
a request for information sent by our office. We also reviewed emails sent between 
Commissioners and staff regarding Resolution 13-06, which were enclosed with the February 14, 
2014 letter. 
' Allegations contained in the complaint that pertain to access to public records are governed by the Public Records 
Law, and not the Open Meeting Law. Therefore, we decline to review those allegations and refer the complainant to 
the Supervisor of Records in the Secretary of the Commonwealth's Public Records Division. 
2 Available at http://new.livestream.com/barnstablecountY/commissioners. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
The Cape & Vineyard Electric Cooperative, Inc. (CVEC) was formed out of a strategic 
planning process commissioned and undertaken by the Cape Light Compact (CLC). The CVEC 
was organized in 2007 with three members: CLC, Barnstable County and the Town of 
Barnstable. The Barnstable County Commissioners comprise a three-member public body that 
oversees the Barnstable County government. The Commissioners represent Barnstable County 
as a member of the CVEC. 
On December 4, 2013, the Barnstable County Assembly of Delegates (the Assembly) 
approved Resolution 13-06. The Resolution instructs the Speaker of the Assembly to contact the 
Massachusetts Office of the Inspector General and the Office of the Attorney General3 to seek 
their assistance regarding the Assembly's inquiries into the CLC and CVEC. Passage of a 
resolution by the Assembly prompts a review for approval or disapproval by the Commissioners. 
See Article 3, § 3-8 Barnstable County Charter.4 
Upon receiving Resolution 13-06, Commissioners Chair Mary Pat Flynn asked Deputy 
Administrator for Barnstable County Maggie Downey to prepare for consideration a list of 
reasons why the Commissioners might not adopt the Resolution. She did not ask for a list of 
reasons why the Commissioners might approve the Resolution because the reasons were stated 
as part of the Resolution itself. Ms. Downey prepared the list of reasons and sent it to the 
Commissioners. The Commissioners provided individual feedback to Ms. Downey, but did not 
communicate with each other. Ms. Downey then sent to the Commissioners the prepared list of 
reasons for disapproval of the Resolution, along with a draft letter to the Assembly, for 
discussion at their December 11, 2013 meeting. 
On December 6, 2013, the Commissioners posted notice for a December 11, 2013 
meeting. Among the topics listed in the notice was "Discussion and potential vote on proposed 
resolution 13-06 for the Assembly of Delegates to seek assistance from the Office of Inspector 
General as adopted by the Assembly of Delegates on December 4, 2013." 
On December 10, 2013, Robert Troy, County Counsel, sent a memorandum to Barnstable 
County Administrator Michael Brillhart regarding Resolution 13-06. In that letter. Attorney 
Troy wrote that, following the Resolution's adoption by the Assembly, further action on the 
Resolution by the Commissioners "is now required." He concluded that "it is mandatory that the 
County Commissioners act on the proposed resolution at its meeting on December 11, 2013." 
During its December 11, 2013 open meeting, the Commissioners reviewed and 
considered Resolution 13-06. Mr. Brillhart presented the resolution, and explained to the 
Commissioners that they had the option to either approve or disapprove the Resolution. After 
Mr. Brillhart presented the Resolution, Acting Chair William Doherty5 asked the Commissioners 
3 The division of the Attorney General's Office that would review such a request is not the same division tasked 
with reviewing this complaint. 
4 The complaint argues that the Commissioners' review of Resolution 13-06 may have been improper because the 
Resolution was not a matter that it was required to review. We take no position regarding the appropriateness of the 
Commissioners' vote under the County Charter, 
5 Mary Pat Flynn was the Chair of the Commissioners at the time of the meeting, but was participating remotely via 
telephone. Therefore, Commissioner Doherty chaired the meeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
for discussion. Commissioner Mary Pat Fiynn stated that she had read the Resolution and, 
speaking to Chair Doherty, stated that: 
I think there are certain reasons and I think I've communicated them to you. And I think 
you've prepared a list of the reasons why 1 think we should refer this back to the 
Assembly of Delegates with a vote to disapprove and I would make that motion and if 
you have the list of the reasons there, I would ask that you read them publicly so that the 
public at large understands the reasons if in fact there is a second to this motion. 
Chair Doherty read aloud a list of reasons for disapproval from a document in front of him. 
From that list, he explained that "an inquiry into the structure and operations of the Cape Light 
Compact and similar intergovernmental bodies is inconsistent with Section 3, executive 
authorities of the Barnstable County Home Rule Charter," and that "We do not believe that either 
Cape Light Compact or CVEC have committed fraud, waste, or abuse." 
Commissioner Lyons then seconded the motion for disapproval. The Commissioners 
voted 3-0 to disapprove the Resolution. The Commissioners then voted to direct the County 
Administrator to prepare a written response to the Assembly of Delegates. Following the 
meeting, the two Commissioners who were present signed the letter of disapproval that had been 
prepared by Ms. Downey, dated that same day, which outlined four reasons for their disapproval. 
The reasons given were the same as those identified in Ms. Downey's memorandum. The letter, 
dated December 11, 2013 and signed by Commissioners Doherty and Lyons, was then sent by 
Mr, Brillhart, along with a cover letter, to the Assembly of Delegates. 
On December 16, 2013 Mr. Bibler filed the present Open Meeting Law complaint with 
the Commissioners. During the Commissioners' December 18, 2013 meeting, the 
Commissioners addressed the complaint, and explained the process by which Ms. Downey 
drafted the reasons for disapproval and distributed it to the Commissioners. 
In a December 20, 2013 letter to Mr. Bibler, the Commissioners formally responded to 
the complaint. In that letter, the Commissioners deny that they engaged in any inappropriate 
communications regarding Resolution 13-06, writing that "[n]o such communications occurred 
between and among, emphasis added, the Commissioners prior to their meeting." 
DISCUSSION 
A "meeting" is "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body's jurisdiction," G,L, c, 30A, § 18, A "deliberation" is "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction; however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided 
that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. A "quorum" is "a simple majority of the 
members of the public body, unless otherwise provided in a general or special law, executive 
order or other authorizing provision." Id. All deliberations must occur during a noticed meeting. 
G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b). 
3 
===PAGE 4===
The Commissioners assert in their December 20, 2013 response to the complaint that they 
did not communicate with each other regarding Resolution 13-06 prior to the December 11, 2013 
meeting. Upon receiving Resolution 13-06, Chair Flynn asked Deputy Administrator Downey to 
prepare a list of reasons to consider why the Commissioners might not adopt the Resolution. 
Chair Flynn did not ask for a list of reasons why the Commissioners might approve the 
Resolution because the reasons were stated as part of the Resolution itself. Ms. Downey 
prepared the list of reasons and sent it to the Commissioners. A public body may not use a staff 
person to facilitate improper deliberation. See OML 2013-186.6 However, it does not appear 
that Ms. Downey facilitated deliberation, rather she prepared a potential response for the 
Commissioners to consider, along with the Resolution itself, during a meeting. See OML 2013-
5. The Commissioners provided individual feedback on the draft to Ms. Downey, but did not 
communicate with each other. 
We acknowledge that Chair Flynn's statement to Commissioner Doherty during the 
December 11, 2013 meeting, combined with the lack of substantive discussion preceding the 
Commissioners' vote, gave the impression that the two had communicated with each other about 
this matter prior to that meeting. However, the Commissioners deny that is the case. Although 
the process followed by the Commissioners understandably left the public with questions about 
how they reached their decision, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, we accept the 
Commissioners' explanation, and find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commissioners did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during this investigation, and 
now consider this matter closed. Please contact me if you have any questions regarding this 
letter. 
cc: Eric Bibler, Save Our Seashore 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
33; 2013-188. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
, Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago /openiTieeting.. 