===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 7, 2017 
OML 2017-140 
Katherine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan on November 7, alleging that 
the Ashland Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Faw, G.F. c. 3OA, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about October 10, and 
you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated February 14, 2017. In his complaint, 
Mr. Morgan alleges that the Board deliberated by email.2 
Following our review, we resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Faw. 
On September 7, counsel for the Board, Lisa Mead, sent an email to the complainant, 
copying the Board and other town officials, in which she attached a response to the 
complainant's public records request regarding the Charter Review Committee. The 
complainant responded to this email on September 28 and asked Ms. Mead to "either provide 
some legal basis for this committee to continue meeting past its clear Town Charter deadline 
as established or to take steps as Town Counsel to ensure the improper committee is 
shutdown." The complainant also asked Ms. Mead to address a concern that a member of the 
Board—Board chair Joseph Magnani— is serving on the Charter Review Committee. Mr. 
Magnani then responded to the complainant, and the other recipients included on the email 
chain, including the Board, regarding the Charter Review Committee continuing its work 
beyond the deadline accorded by the Town bylaws. 
' All dates refer to the year 2016, unless otherwise specified. 
2 The complaint also includes a general allegation that the Board communicates privately and/or uses staff to "set 
meeting agendas." We decline to review this allegation because, even if true, it would not constitute a violation 
of the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (deliberation "shall not include the distribution of a meeting 
agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural [information]"). 
MAURA IIEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
o 
===PAGE 2===
As the Town's governing body, the Board has appointment authority for the Charter 
Review Committee and receives its recommendations for further consideration and action. 
Accordingly, we conclude that the content of Chair Magnani's email was a matter within the 
Board's jurisdiction. While we acknowledge that Chair Magnani was simply attempting to 
respond to the complainant's concerns, see OML 2013-113, we find that Chair Magnani 
individually violated the Open Meeting Law by sending an email sharing his opinion on a 
matter within the Board's jurisdiction to a quorum of the Board. See OML 2016-104 (even 
the expression of an opinion of one public body member on matters within a public body's 
jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no other public body 
member responds).3 We order the Board to disclose Chair Magnani's email to the public 
within 30 days of receipt of this determination, if it has not done so already. 
Additionally, the Board took four months to respond to this complaint. We remind the 
Board that, unless an extension of time has been requested from our office, a public body 
must respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 business days. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(b). We caution the Board that we may find a violation of the Open Meeting Law for a 
future failure to comply with this requirement. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Stephen Morgan 
Ashland Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass. gov/ago/openmeeting. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 