===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200
(617) 727-4765 TTY
www.mass.gov/ago
VIA EMAIL October 5, 2021 
Karen Tonelli 
Montague Director of Assessing 
 
RE:  Reconsideration of OML 2021 – 111 
Dear Ms. Tonelli: 
Our office received your September 2, 2021, request for reconsideration of our 
August 5, 2021, determination, OML 2021-111, resolving a complaint filed by Henry 
Komosa against the Montague Board of Assessors (the “Board”). In our phone conversation 
and subsequent email on September 2, 2021, you requested that the Division of Open 
Government (the “Division”) reconsider the determination to provide more detail about the 
video and photographic evidence we relied upon in finding that the Board was muted during a 
portion of its November 30, 2020, meeting. 
There is no statutory right to reconsideration by the Office of the Attorney General of 
an Open Meeting Law determination or declination. While the Division generally will not 
reconsider past determinations, the Division may grant reconsideration where the request 
identifies a clerical or mechanical error in the determination or a significant legal or factual 
issue that the Division may have overlooked or misapprehended in resolving the complaint.  
You questioned whether the videos and pictures submitted by Mr. Komosa included evidence 
of when the videos and pictures were taken. Accordingly, we grant your request for 
reconsideration and reissue the determination in order to clarify that each video and picture 
which showed that the Board was muted was indeed captured during the meeting in question. 
We now consider the complaint to be resolved. Please feel free to contact our office at 
(617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely, 
Sar
 ah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Henry Komosa (via e- mail: kipkomosa@comcast.net) 
Gregg Corbo, Esq. (via e-ma il: gcorbo@k-plaw.com) 
Montague Town Clerk Debra Bourbeau (via e-ma il: townclerk@montague-ma.gov) 

===PAGE 2===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
October 5, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 111 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Gregg Corbo, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street, 12th Floor  
B
oston, MA 02110 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received a complaint from Henry Komosa on February 19, 2021, alleging that 
the Montague Board of Assessors (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on December 9, and you responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated December 29.1 In his complaint, Mr. Komosa alleges that he 
attended the Board’s November 30 meeting, and all Board members were inaudible during the 
meeting.2  
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
and find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by muting the Board during a portion of 
a November 30 meeting, making the Board inaudible to the public. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the 
alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged violation could not reasonably have been known at the time it 
occurred, then the complaint must be filed within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered. 940 
CMR 29.05(3). When an alleged violation occurs in open session, the alleged violation can reasonably be discovered 
at the time it occurs. See OML 2014-85; OML 2012-52. We decline to review Mr. Komosa’s allegation that he also 
could not hear the Board at an October 19 meeting, because that alleged violation could have been discovered at the 
time the meeting took place, which was more than 30 days before this complaint was filed. See OML Declination 
10-9-12 (Falmouth Board of Selectmen). We also decline to review Mr. Komosa’s allegation that the Board 
approved inaccurate meeting minutes of Board’s October 19 meeting, as the October 19 meeting minutes were 
approved on November 2. However, we take this opportunity to note that although the Open Meeting Law requires 
that meeting minutes include an accurate summary of the discussion that took place on each topic, the Law  does not 
require a public body to discuss any particular topic or to discuss a topic in any particular level of detail. See OML 
2018-151; OML 2015-73. 

===PAGE 3===
2 
 
the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed pictures and videos of the 
Board’s November 30 meeting which Mr. Komosa provided to us by email in May and June, 
2021.  
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Meetings of public bodies must be open and accessible to 
the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a 
public body shall be open to the public.”). Generally, access to a meeting must include the 
opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the 
members of the public body. See OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54.3 
 On March 10, Governor Baker declared a state of emergency in response to the public 
health emergency created by the outbreak of the 2019 novel Coronavirus (“COVID-19”). See 
Exec. Order No. 591 (Mar. 10, 2020). On March 12, Governor Baker issued an executive order 
temporarily suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting Law during the state of 
emergency. See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 
20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”). The Executive Order suspended the requirement 
that meetings be physically accessible to members of the public, but only if a public body 
provides adequate, alternative means for the public to access its meetings. The Executive Order 
provides that “[a]dequate, alternative means of public access shall mean measures that provide 
transparency and permit timely and effective public access to the deliberations of the public body 
... [enabling] the public to clearly follow the proceedings of the public body while those activities 
are occurring.” Executive Order at § 1. 
 Here, the Board met on November 30 from 3:30 p.m. to 4:40 p.m. at the Town Hall to 
discuss a variety of topics, including Mr. Komosa’s application for chapter modification.4 The 
Board members met in person and provided remote access to the public through Zoom. The 
Division of Open Government construes the Executive Order as allowing “hybrid” meetings in 
which a public body may conduct its proceedings in a physical meeting location while providing 
public access through “adequate, alternative” means, as defined by the Executive Order. See 
OML 2020-100. The Board members sat around a table with one camera displaying the center of 
the table and one Board member seated directly across from the camera. Not all members of the 
Board could be seen on video.  
 Mr. Komosa was the only member of the public who attended the meeting. Mr. Komosa 
first logged into Zoom on his laptop and, when he was not able to hear the Board, tested the 
audio problem by also logging in from two more laptops. Mr. Komosa states that the audio 
problem was experienced by all the laptops. We have reviewed a screenshot from 4:06 p.m. and 
two short videos from 4:09 p.m. and 4:18 p.m. that show the Board’s own microphone was 
muted, while the Board appears to continue its discussions. Mr. Komosa also provided us with a 
video from 4:19 p.m. showing a message he sent to the Board in the Zoom chat box to inform the 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
4 We take this opportunity to remind the Board that Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations require that 
the date and time that a meeting notice is posted be conspicuously recorded on or with the notice. S ee 940 CMR 
29.03(1)(d). 
===PAGE 4===
3 
 
Board members that they were inaudible. Since the Board was muted during at least some 
portion of the Board’s November 30 meeting while discussions were ongoing, we find that the 
meeting was not open and accessible to the public, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  
 Finally, Mr. Komosa also alleges that the Board intentionally muted  its audio during 
meetings prior to the November 30 meeting, as far back as August 2020. Mr. Komosa asserts 
that during these meetings, a Board staff member would keep the Board muted and, when a 
member of the public joined the meeting, ask that person what they wanted. The staff member 
could then be seen on video consulting with the Board, and then returning to the single laptop to 
convey the Board’s answer. As this complaint was not filed within 30 days of those meetings, we 
did not investigate this allegation and make no specific finding as to whether the Board violated 
the Law in this respect. However, we take this opportunity to remind the Board that at the core of 
the Open Meeting Law is the requirement that meetings be open and accessible to the public, and 
that members of the public have a right to hear what is being discussed by the members of the 
public body during an open session. See OML 2021-8; OML 2020-100. The use of technology 
that renders the Board members inaudible to the public, and relying on a staff member to relay 
the Board’s comments, would not comply with the Open Meeting Law and the Executive Order. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a), Executive Order at § 1.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
muting the Board members’ audio during a portion of the November 30 meeting, making the 
Board’s meeting inaudible to the public. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar 
violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. 
Because the Board continued its discussion of Mr. Komosa’s application to a later meeting once 
Mr. Komosa alerted the Board that he could not hear the Board, we order no further relief.  
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: H
enry Komosa (via e-mail:  
 M ontague Board of Assessors c/o Director of Assessing Karen Tonelli, (via e- mail: 
 ) 
 M ontague Town Clerk Debra Bourbeau (via e- mail:  
 
 

===PAGE 5===
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 