===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
February 10, 2014 
OML 2014-9 
Lauren Goldberg, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Goldberg: 
This office received complaints from Sarah Alger and Steven Cohen, dated June 
11, 2013 and June 12, 2013, respectively, alleging that the Nantucket Historic District 
Commission (the Commission) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaints were originally filed with the Commission on or about April 18, 2013 and 
April 19, 2013, respectively, and you responded on behalf of the Committee to the 
complaints by letter dated May 31, 2013. In their complaints, Ms. Alger and Mr. Cohen 
both allege that during its April 11, 2013 meeting, the Commission discussed and took 
action on a topic that was not listed on its meeting notice. In addition, the complaints 
allege that the Commission engaged in deliberation outside of a properly posted meeting 
about this same topic. Finally, Ms. Alger additionally alleges that the meeting notice failed 
to conspicuously record the date and time that the notice was posted. 
We reviewed the April 18, 2013 and April 19, 2013 complaints; your May 31, 2013 
response, on behalf of the Commission; and the June 11, 2013 and June 12, 2013 
complaints filed with our office, requesting further review. We also reviewed the notices, 
minutes, and recordings from the Commission's April 11, 2013; April 23, 2013; and May 
28, 2013 meetings. Finally, we spoke individually by telephone with Commission 
members John McLaughlin, Kevin Keuster, David Barham and Chair Linda Williams.1 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to conspicuously record thereon or therewith the date and time the notice 
for its April 11, 2013 meeting was posted. However, we find that the Commission did not 
1 Commission Administrator Mark Voigt also participated in the calls with Mr. McLaughlin and Mr. Keuster. 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing a topic during that meeting that was 
unanticipated by the Chair. Furthermore, we do not find evidence that a quorum of the 
Commission discussed this topic outside of a meeting. 
FACTS 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Commission consists of five members and 
three alternate members, who have no voting authority. Historically, the Commission has 
reorganized its leadership and elected officers at the first regular meeting following the 
annual Town election. The Town held an election on April 9, 2013. Accordingly, the 
Commission voted to elect new leadership during its April 11, 2013 meeting. Leading up 
to this meeting, several Commission members discussed the reorganization of the 
Commission's leadership outside of a meeting. Mr. McLaughlin recalls speaking with Mr. 
Barham outside of a meeting a few weeks prior to the April 11, 2013 meeting about voting 
for a new chairperson; however Mr. Barham recalls first learning of Mr. McLaughlin's 
opinion about reorganizing the Commission's leadership during a meeting. Mr. Barham 
also spoke with Mr. Keuster outside of a meeting a few days before the April 11, 2013 
meeting about his dissatisfaction with the current leadership. Based on this conversation, 
Mr. Keuster anticipated that the Commission might nominate him for chairmanship. Mr. 
Barham and Mr. Keuster both anticipated that the election would be brought up during the 
Commission's April 11, 2013 meeting because it was the next meeting after the Town 
election. Chair Williams did not consider it a "regular" Commission meeting, however, as 
the April 11, 2013 meeting was a continuation of the Commission's April 9, 2013 meeting. 
She therefore anticipated that the election of officers would be placed on the notice for the 
Commission's next regularly scheduled meeting on April 23, 2013. According to Chair 
Williams, none of the other Commission members notified her that they would like to 
discuss the election of officers during the April 11, 2013 meeting. 
Notice was posted for the Commission's April 11, 2013 meeting, however neither 
the original nor the amended version of the notice indicated the date and time of the 
posting. Additionally, the election of new leadership was not listed as a topic on the 
meeting notice. During the meeting, Mr. McLaughlin introduced a motion to elect a new 
chair and vice chair during "a lull" in the discussion of a separate agenda item. Because 
the topic was not listed on the meeting notice. Chair Williams objected to any discussion 
and action on this topic. Discussion ensued about whether the election of officers needed 
to be placed on the notice, and one member noted that this topic had not been listed on 
meeting notices in the past. Mr. Cohen, who was in the audience, also pointed out the 
Open Meeting Law's notice posting requirements. Other members of the Commission 
pointed to Robert's Rules of Order for the Commission's authority to elect officers at any 
time.2 Despite objections, the Commission voted to elect new officers. 
2 One member suggested that any perceived violation of the Open Meeting Law could be remedied at a future 
meeting. 
===PAGE 3===
The Commission further discussed this topic at its next meeting, on April 23, 2013. 
The meeting notice included the following topic for discussion: "Election of HDC chair 
(confirmation at the beginning of the meeting of the previous vote on 04/11)." The 
Commission again discussed the propriety of the election before approving a vote to re-
affirm its April 11, 2013 vote. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Taw requires that all meetings of a public body be properly 
noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See 
G.T. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy 
surrounding deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. 
School Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A "meeting" is defined, in 
relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body's jurisdiction." G.T. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" in relevant part as 
"an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, 
between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id. 
The Open Meeting Taw requires that a public body post notice 48 hours in advance 
of a meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." G.T. c. 30A, § 20(b). The Open Meeting Taw does not require 
that the chair of a public body guess what will occur during a meeting, but the chair does 
need to list those topics that he or she reasonably anticipates will be discussed. See OMT 
2013-22.3 Additionally, the Attorney General's regulations require that "[t]he date and 
time that the notice is posted shall be conspicuously recorded thereon or therewith." 940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b); OMT 2013-44; OML 2013-9. 
First, we do not find evidence that a quorum of the Commission deliberated outside 
of a meeting regarding the election of officers. Because this is a five-member 
Commission, three members constitute a quorum. Each individual discussion between Mr. 
McTaughlin and Mr. Keuster and Mr. Barham and Mr. Keuster about the upcoming 
election was between a subquorum of the Commission (eg., two members of the five-
member public body), and therefore did not constitute a deliberation under the Open 
Meeting Taw. See G.T. c. 30A, § 18. While both conversations concerned the same topic, 
based on our interviews, it did not appear that Mr. Barham explicitly relayed to Mr. 
Keuster the nature of his prior conversation with Mr. McTaughlin. While common sense 
leads us to assume that the three members shared the content of these conversations 
between each other, thereby serially communicating about the election outside of a 
meeting, in the absence of concrete evidence to the contrary, we credit the account of these 
Commission members that they did not engage in improper serial communication. 
Nevertheless, we remind the Commission that a public body may not engage in a serial 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
communication whereby a quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner 
outside of a meeting, on a particular subject matter within the public body's jurisdiction. 
See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that private serial 
communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to 
circumvent the intent of the law). 
Second, the Commission did not violate the law by electing new officers over Chair 
Williams' objection because the Chair did not anticipate at least 48 hours before the 
meeting that the matter would be raised during this meeting. A public body may consider 
a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice if it is a topic that the chair did 
not reasonably anticipate at least 48 hours before the meeting.4 Although several of the 
Commission's members clearly believed the topic would be discussed, we credit the 
Chair's assertion that she anticipated holding the election during the April 23, 2013 
meeting, rather than the April 11, 2013 meeting. We therefore find that the Commission 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law by holding the election of officers during the April 
11, 2013 meeting. However, we note that members of the Commission and attendees 
raised concerns during the meeting about the propriety of the vote. We remind the 
Commission that the Attorney General strongly encourages public bodies to postpone 
discussion and action on topics that may be of particular interest to the public if those 
topics were not listed in the meeting notice. See OML 2013-190; OML 2013-61. 
Finally, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
conspicuously record thereon or therewith the date and time the notice for the 
Commission's April 11, 2013 meeting was posted. Recording the date and time enables 
the public to observe that public bodies are complying with the Open Meeting Law's 
notice requirements without requiring constant vigilance. OML 2013-44. Additionally, it 
provides this office with evidence of compliance with the Open Meeting Law's notice 
requirements. Id. In response to the complaint, the Commission committed to compliance 
with this requirement going forward. 
4 See also OML FAQ: Meeting Notices, available at the Attorney General's website: 
Q: May a public body consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice? 
A: Yes, if it is a topic that the chair did not reasonably anticipate 48 hours before the meeting. If a meeting 
topic is proposed after the meeting notice is posted, the public body is encouraged to update its posting to 
provide the public with as much notice as possible of what subjects will be discussed during a meeting. 
Although a public body may consider a topic that was not listed in the meeting notice if unanticipated, the 
Attorney General strongly encourages public bodies to postpone discussion and action on topics that are 
controversial or may be of particular interest to the public if those topics were not listed in the meeting 
notice. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to conspicuously record thereon or therewith the date and time the 
notice for the Commission's April 11, 2013 meeting was posted. We order immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that future similar conduct 
may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our 
office or the Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Sarah Alger, Esq. 
Steven Cohen, Esq. 
Nantucket Historic District Commission 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
5 