===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 19, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 163 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Christopher H. Heep, Esq. 
Miyares and Harrington LLP 
cheep@miyares-harrington.com   
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Heep: 
 
This office received a complaint from Joe Abruzese on December 30, 2021,
1 alleging that 
the Needham Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 2, and you responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated November 16. The complaint alleges that the Board 
improperly deliberated over Zoom prior to the start of the Board’s October 19 meeting.2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating via Zoom prior to its October 19 meeting. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, 
the notice for the Board’s October 19 meeting, and the minutes of Board meetings held on 
October 19 and November 16. 
 
 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2021 unless otherwise stated. 
2 To the extent the complaint raises allegations related to the State’s Ethics Law, we decline to review these 
allegations. See OML Declination 7-27-2015 (Weymouth School Committee). The state ethics law is enforced by 
the State Ethics Commission, thus any concerns about compliance with the state ethics law should be referred to that 
agency. Additionally, we decline to review any allegations raised in the request for further review as they were not 
raised in a formal complaint filed with the Board. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(1); OML 2019-76; 
OML 2012-92. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Board is a five-member public body; therefore, 
three members constitute a quorum. The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held via Zoom 
on October 19 at 7:15 p.m. Included on the notice was a public hearing related to an application 
filed by Needham Enterprises, LLC, to construct a childcare center at 1688 Central Avenue (the 
“Application”). 
 
At 7:15 p.m. on October 19 certain individuals were allowed to access the Zoom meeting 
as “panelists,” but the general public was not granted access to the meeting at that time. Among 
the individuals allowed to access the Zoom meeting prior to the general public were all five 
Board members, Paul Alpert, Adam Block, Natasha Espada, Martin Jacobs, and Jeanne 
McKnight; Town Counsel;
3 and representatives for Needham Enterprises, LLC and the proposed 
childcare center, including Attorney Evans Huber. 
 
The meeting was not opened to the public until 7:31 p.m. During the 16 minutes when the 
panelists were allowed to access the Zoom meeting, but the general public was not, the Board’s 
Chair, Paul Alpert, informed the group that the Planning Department had received an email that 
day alleging that he had a conflict of interest with respect to the Application. Mr. Alpert 
announced that he would recuse himself from the matter that evening and would postpone the 
scheduled public hearing until the Board’s next meeting to allow time to obtain a determination 
from the State Ethics Commission regarding whether he in fact had a conflict of interest.  
 
Thereafter, Board member Martin Jacobs asked Town Counsel what would happen if Mr. 
Alpert was found to have a conflict of interest because another Board member had already 
recused themself from considering the Application, potentially leaving the Board with fewer than 
the required four members necessary to vote on the Application. Town Counsel responded 
stating that he did not believe the State Ethics Commission would find that Mr. Alpert had a 
conflict of interest, but that they would have to wait to see what guidance they received. 
Thereafter, Town Counsel and Attorney Huber discussed whether another public body in town 
might be able to review the Application; whether the Board might be able to invoke the “rule of 
necessity”; and whether the public hearing could proceed that evening. Finally, a representative 
of the proposed childcare center spoke noting her disappointment that the public hearing would 
be postponed; her disappointment with the length of the application process overall; and that she 
was in no way involved with raising the allegation that Mr. Alpert had a conflict of interest.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, unless lawfully convened in executive session, “all 
mee
tings of a public body shall be open to the public.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). A “meeting” is 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. “Deliberation,” in turn, is defined broadly as any “oral or 
written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a 
quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id. However, the 
definition of “deliberation” includes an exception for “the distribution of a meeting agenda, 
 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of 
repor
ts or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member 
is expressed.” Id. A “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id.  
 
The Board does not dispute that a discussion occurred between 7:15 and 7:31 p.m., when 
the publ
ic was unable to access the Zoom meeting, or that the full Board was present during this 
discussion. The Board asserts, however, that the discussion that occurred falls within the 
exception to the definition of deliberation because it was administrative in nature where it related 
to scheduling and no member of the Board expressed an opinion. The Board further asserts that 
discussion of an individual’s compliance with the State Ethics Law is not a matter within the 
Board’s jurisdiction. We disagree with the Board’s characterization of the discussion as 
pertaining solely to scheduling and to Mr. Alpert’s individual obligation to comply with the State 
Ethics Law. Rather, we find that the discussion also pertained to whether and how the Board 
could proceed with the Application in the event Mr. Alpert were found to have a conflict of 
interest, a matter squarely within the Board’s jurisdiction and not solely about scheduling. 
Therefore, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2017-91 
(“Discussions regarding procedural or administrative matters may relate to public business 
within a body’s jurisdiction, including whether the body should consider or take action on 
specific topics during a meeting. The Open Meeting Law does not carve out an exception to the 
definition of ‘deliberation’ for procedural discussions among public body members about how its 
meetings should be run.”) (citations omitted); OML 2016-81; OML 2022-129. 
 
Alt
hough the Board did not acknowledge a violation, in response to the complaint, it 
agreed to take many, if not all, of the remedial actions the Complainant requested. This included 
summarizing the discussions held during the 16 minutes when the public could not access the 
October 19 meeting and implementing new procedures for meetings held by Zoom.
4 Therefore, 
other than as noted below, we order no further remedial action. 
 
The Board’s response to the Open Meeting Law complaint includes a detailed summary 
of the discussion held during the 16 minutes when the public could not access the October 19 
meeting. In addition, the Board explained that it intended to amend the minutes of the October 19 
meeting to include the summary. Based on a review of the Board’s meeting minutes posted 
online, it does not appear that the minutes of the October 19 meeting have been amended to 
include the summary of the discussion that occurred before the public could access the meeting. 
Therefore, to the extent the Board has not already done so, we order the Board to amend the 
minutes of its October 19 meeting to reflect the discussion that occurred prior to the public being 
allowed access to the meeting.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it deliberated via Zoom prior to the public being allowed to access the October 19 meeting. 
We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we 
 
4 We note that as explained in its response, the Board still intends to allow Board members to join the Zoom meeting 
shortly before all other individuals. We caution the Board that it may not deliberate during the time that only Board 
members are admitted to the Zoom meeting.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
Additionally, we order the Board to amend the minutes of its October 19 meeting to reflect the 
discussion held during the period of time that the public was not able to access the October 19 
meeting.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Adam Block, Chair, Needham Planning Board (via email: planning@needhamma.gov) 
Joe Abruzese (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
