===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
August 14, 2019 
OML 2019-102
Charles Kilb, Esq.
Division of Professional Licensure 
Office of Legal Counsel 
1000 Washington Street 
Boston, MA 02118
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Kilb:
This office received a complaint from Matthew Wojcik, Town Administrator, on behalf 
of the Town of Douglas (the “Town”) on February 12, 2019, alleging that the Board of Building 
Regulations and Standards (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about December 19, 2018, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated January 10, 2019. Specifically, the complaint 
alleges that the Board (i) failed to properly post notice for its December 11, 2018, meeting; (ii) 
failed to post a sufficiently detailed notice; and (iii) discussed and voted on items not included on 
the notice. The Town also asserts allegations concerning its ability to be represented by Town 
counsel at the meeting and receiving direct notice that it would be the subject of a discussion.
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to properly post notice for its December 11 meeting, failing to notify our office of a change in its 
official notice posting location, and posting an inadequately detailed notice for the December 11 
meeting. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response, the Complainant’s request for further review, the notices for the December 11 and 
January 8 meetings, the minutes for the December 11 and January 8 meetings, the letter from the 
Massachusetts Federation of Building Officials (MFBO), and the December 20, 2018, letter from 
the Division of Professional Licensure Office of Public Safety and Inspections to the Town. We 
also communicated with counsel for the Board1 by email and by phone on August 1 and 8, 2019.
1 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person going forward.

===PAGE 2===
Finally, we reviewed the websites for the Office of Public Safety, including the Board’s subpage, 
and the Division of Professional Licensure.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board received a letter on or about December 1, 2018, 
from the MFBO raising concerns that the Town was considering replacing its building inspector 
with an inspection company, an action the MFBO believed was not in compliance with 
applicable laws. On December 4, 2018, the Board posted notice for the December 11 meeting to 
the Division of Professional Licensure’s website. The notice included the agenda item “Discuss 
letter from Massachusetts Federation of Building Officials (MFBO), President dated December 
1, 2018.” On December 10, 2018, a Board staff member forwarded the MFBO letter to the Town 
Administrator via email.
William Cundiff, engineer for the Town, attended the Board’s December 11 meeting and 
participated in the meeting by providing information and answering questions. During the course 
of the discussion regarding the MFBO letter, the Board voted to send the Town a letter with 
guidance regarding the plan to replace the building inspector with an inspection company. The 
Division of Professional Licensure Office of Public Safety and Inspection sent the Town a letter 
dated December 20, 2018, with this guidance.
On January 8, 2019, the Board held another meeting. The notice for this meeting included 
the agenda item “ReviewYRatify letter sent to Town of Douglas Administrator Matthew J.
Wojcik on December 20, 2018 regarding the Town’s obligation to employ and designate a 
Building Commissioner who meets the BBRS’ certification requirements and noting that no 
business entities are so certified.” At the January 8 meeting, the Board, after a brief discussion, 
voted to ratify the December 20, 2018, letter sent to the Town.
DISCUSSION
1. The December 11 Meeting Notice Was Not Properly Posted
The Open Meeting Law requires that “[ejxcept in an emergency, in addition to any notice 
otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours 
prior to such meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
State public bodies, such as the Board, must post notice to a website, and also send a copy of 
each notice to the Secretary of the Commonwealth's Regulations Division. 940 CMR 29.03(6). 
The chair of a state public body must notify the Attorney General in writing of the public body’s 
webpage for posting meeting notices and any change to the webpage location. Id. The public 
body must consistently post notices to the most current website location on file with the Attorney 
General. Id.
The Board’s official notice posting location on file with the Attorney General is 
https://www.mass.gov/dps. After reviewing websites for the Office of Public Safety, including a 
subpage for the Board, and the Division of Professional Licensure, and after discussion by phone 
and email with counsel for the Board, we find that notice for the December 11 meeting was 
posted to the Division of Professional Licensure’s website at http://www.mass.gov/dpl. This is 
not the webpage on file with our office as the Board’s official notice posting location. Therefore, 
we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by not properly posting notice to its
2

===PAGE 3===
official notice posting location and by failing to notify our office of a change in its official notice 
posting location.2
2. The December 11 Meeting Notice Was Insufficiently Detailed
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice 
with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic sufficiently detailed when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35. The Open Meeting Law does not require a 
public body to anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion, only that it 
identify the discussion topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 
2017-186; OML 2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38.
The agenda item “Discuss letter from Massachusetts Federation of Building Officials 
(MFBO), President dated December 1, 2018” does not provide enough detail to reasonably 
advise the public of the matter to be discussed. The Board argues that because it was unable to 
independently verify the allegations in the MFBO’s letter and did not want to “summarize 
potentially incorrect information” on the notice, it did not have any additional information to 
include in the notice. We disagree. The Board was aware that the letter specifically concerned 
the Town of Douglas and its building inspector, and should have included these details to better 
inform the public about the topic to be discussed. We note that the Board did directly notify the 
Town of the anticipated discussion by email on December 10, 2018, and the Town was able to 
participate at the meeting through its representative, William Cundiff. Though the Town 
ultimately received notice and participated in the meeting, we review the official meeting notice 
to determine whether it was sufficiently detailed, such that a reasonable member of the public 
could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. We 
therefore find that the Board’s December 11 meeting notice was insufficiently detailed.
The Board argues that the discussion at the January 8 meeting of the letter sent to the 
Town and its vote to ratify that letter cure this violation. Although we commend the Board for 
attempting to remedy the violation by discussing and ratifying the letter at the January 8 meeting 
and providing greater detail in its notice for the January 8 meeting, these actions are not wholly 
sufficient to address the violation committed. See Pearson v. Board of Selectmen of 
Longmeadow, 49 Mass. App. Ct. 119, 125 (2000), (citing Tolar v. School Board of Liberty 
County, 398 So.2d 427, 429 (Fla. 1981)) (noting violations may be cured by independent, 
deliberative action, that is “not merely a ceremonial acceptance . . . and ... a perfunctory 
ratification of secret decisions”); OML 2014-72. After review of the minutes for the January 8 
meeting, we find that the Board held a cursory discussion and then ratified its actions.
2 Although not raised in the complaint, we note that the Board’s meeting notices do not always include the time each 
meeting notice is posted, although the date of posting is stated on the website next to the link to the meeting notice. 
“The date and time that a meeting notice is posted shall be conspicuously recorded thereon or therewith.” 940 CMR 
29.02(2)(d). We advise that the Board begin including both the date and time of posting, either on the meeting 
notice itself or on the website next to the link to the meeting notice.
3

===PAGE 4===
Furthermore, the January 8 meeting discussion occurred after the Division of Professional 
Licensure Office of Public Safety and Inspections’ letter had already been sent to the Town. 
Finally, the discussion on January 8 addressed the Division of Professional Licensure Office of 
Public Safety and Inspections’ letter to the Town, not the MFBO’s letter to the Board which was 
the original topic that was improperly noticed. Thus, the Board’s actions are insufficient to 
remedy the violation that occurred. See OML 2016-49; OML 2013-195.
Although we find that the Board’s December 11 meeting notice was insufficiently 
detailed, and that the subsequent discussion on January 8 did not adequately remedy the 
violation, we do not order any further remedial action, since the Town ultimately received actual 
notice of the December 11 meeting and in fact attended the meeting.
The Complainant also alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing a matter not listed on the notice and by taking a vote when a vote was not listed on the 
notice. Because we find that the Board’s December 11 meeting notice regarding the discussion 
of the MFBO letter was insufficiently detailed in the first instance, and therefore any discussion 
on that topic was held in violation of the Law, we do not find it necessary to separately analyze 
whether the ensuing discussion and vote arose out of the discussion of the MFBO letter and were 
not reasonably anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting. We note, however, 
that had the discussion of the MFBO letter been properly noticed, we would not find that the 
Board violated the Law by discussing the possibility of sending a letter to the Town or voting to 
send the letter. Although a public body is required to post notice that includes a “listing of topics 
that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting”, G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b), it is 
not required to anticipate the course of deliberations. See OML 2014-58; OML 2014-44. 
Similarly, although we advise that it is good practice for a notice to specify that a vote will be 
taken when a vote is indeed anticipated in advance, which the Board’s meeting notices generally 
do, the Open Meeting Law does not require this. See OML 2017-186; OML 2015-66; OML 
2014-127.
Finally, the Town argues in its complaint and request for further review that it was denied 
the opportunity to adequately represent itself at the meeting because of the insufficient notice and 
asks, in part, that “[t]he meeting record ... be reopened for Town Counsel for Douglas to present 
its point of view ...” We note that, other than in an executive session held under purpose one, 
the Open Meeting Law does not establish any right to participate in or be heard at meetings, but 
rather provides that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of 
the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g); OML 
2018-132. Similarly, the Town argues that because it received an email notifying it of the MFBO 
letter from Board staff the day before the meeting, it was provided with late notice. We note 
again that, other than for an executive session held under purpose one, there is no obligation in 
the Law that the subject of an anticipated discussion be provided with direct notice. See OML 
2014 - 142 (“A public body is not required to provide an individual with notice that he will be 
discussed during a meeting, unless the discussion is part of an executive session under G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(1).”). The Open Meeting Law only guarantees that members of the public be 
permitted to attend meetings of public bodies to observe deliberations. Therefore, we decline to 
order this requested remedy.
4

===PAGE 5===
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to properly post notice for its December 11 meeting, failing to notify our office of a 
change in its official notice posting location, and posting an inadequately detailed notice for the 
December 11 meeting. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law. 
Additionally, we order the Board to notify our office, within 14 days, of the specific website to 
be used as its official notice posting location and to ensure that all future notices are posted to 
that website until our office is notified otherwise. We caution that similar violations in the future 
may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. 940 CMR 29.02.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
C
J^bzcifieth Carnes FlymT 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Matthew Wojcik
Massachusetts Board of Building Regulations and Standards
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be fded in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.
5
