===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.tnass.gov/ago 
June 18, 2015 
OML 2015-83 
Arthur B. Fair, 111, President 
Natick Center Associates, Inc. 
20 Main Street, Suite 208 
Natick, MA 01760 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Mr. Fair; 
This office received a complaint from Michael Gallerani dated February 9, 2015, 
alleging that the Natick Center Cultural District Strategic Planning Committee (the 
Committee) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the 
complaint alleges that the Committee does not follow the Open Meeting Law, including 
posting notices and keeping minutes of its meetings. The complaint was originally filed with 
the Committee on or about January 23, 2015, and you responded, on behalf of Natick Center 
Associates, Inc., to the complaint by letter dated February 3, 2015.' 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this 
matter. Following our review, we find the Committee is not a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, thus it could not have violated its requirements. In reaching this decision, we 
reviewed the original complaint; the response; and the request for further review filed with 
our office. We also spoke by telephone with Arthur Fair on April 16, 2015, and with Town 
Administrator Martha White on May 7 and May 22, 2015. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. In 2013, the Town of Natick applied for, and received, a 
cultural district designation by the Massachusetts Cultural Council. Prior to that, the Town 
executed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Natick Center Associates, Inc. 
(NCA) to manage the cultural district. The MOU did not mention the creation of any 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
1 For the purpose of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
2 One of the requirements of a municipality applying for a cultural district designation is that the municipality 
form a partnership comprised of a diverse mix of organizations and businesses. 
http://www.massculturalcouncil.org/applications/culturaldistricts_guidelines.asp. The municipality may assign 
===PAGE 2===
committee. The NCA is incorporated as a non-profit organization, formed under Section 
501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, whose members consist of property and business 
owners, Town officials, Natick residents and others. In order to establish and run the cultural 
district, NCA hired a consultant to create a strategic plan for the implementation of the 
cultural district's initiatives, which would ultimately be presented to the Natick Board of 
Selectmen (the Board).3 Soon after the consultant was hired, individuals interested in 
assisting the consultant started to work together, which informally evolved into a committee 
comprised of the Town Administrator, one Board member, the complainant (while he acted in 
his former capacity as Natick Economic Development Planner), three or four business 
owners, as well as individuals working in the arts and at a private art school. This Committee 
had no fixed membership, however, or quorum requirement to hold meetings. The Board did 
not designate any individuals to participate on the Committee. To support its various 
initiatives, the Committee received $30,000 from the Town (by a vote at Town Meeting), 
which was disbursed subject to the Board's approval. 
The Committee held regular weekly meetings up until March 2015. To date, the 
Committee has not followed the Open Meeting Law for any of its meetings. However, the 
Town is currently considering a draft revised MOU with NCA that, if approved by the Board, 
would create a Natick Center Cultural District Programming and Events Committee that 
would explicitly be subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law defines a "public body," in relevant part, as "a multiple 
member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative 
branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed 
or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]" G.L. c. 30A, § 18. To 
determine whether the Committee is a public body subject to the OML, there are three factors 
we consider that apply to all public bodies: 
1. The entity must be "within" government and not excluded from the definition of 
"public body"; 
2. The entity must be a "body," empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a "public purpose." 
The Committee satisfies the first and third prongs of this test, but not the second. It is 
"within" government and serves a public purpose because it arose from the Town's 
partnership with NCA for the purpose of implementing the Town's cultural district. See 
OML 2015-34 (where an entity is not clearly placed within government by law, it may still be 
"within" government if the government played a significant role in creating or structuring the 
management responsibility to one of these partners to act as the municipality's agent, pursuant to a written 
agreement. Id. Here, the Town chose NCA as its partner. 
3 Originally, Town Administrator White had executed a contract with the consultant, but later learned that the 
consultant could only contract with non-profits. Thus, NCA subsequently executed a contract with the 
consultant. The consultant is paid from Metro West Tourism and Visitors Bureau grant monies. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
group, the government has control over the group, and the group primarily performs an 
essentially governmental function). Further, although the receipt of public funds alone does 
not make an entity a public body, here the Committee was required to seek the Board's 
approval for the disbursement of Town funds. OML 2015-23. As a result, we find that the 
government played a significant role in the Committee's operations and had some control 
over the group. 
However, the Committee fails the second prong of this test because it does not have a 
set membership that is empowered to act collectively. See OML 2012-20; OML 2015-46. 
Rather, the Committee consists of a fluid group of individuals from within government and 
from the private sector, with no set quorum, gathering together to implement the Town's 
cultural district initiatives. Without a defined membership, the Committee fails the second 
prong of our test, thus we find that it is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law 
and did not violate it. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee is not a public body subject 
to the Open Meeting Law, thus it could not have violated its requirements. We now consider 
the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not 
address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Committee. Please 
feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this 
letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Michael Gallerani 
Martha White, Natick Town Administrator 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 