===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
March 5, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 27 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Alexander M. Castro, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
alex@mtclawyers.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Castro: 
 
This office received a complaint from Roxanne Gunther on October 7, 2024, 1 alleging 
that the Monson American Rescue Plan Act Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on 
August 12, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated August 15. The 
complaint alleges that the Committee is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law and that 
the Committee violated the Law by failing to 1) post notice for its meetings; 2) hold its meetings 
open to the public; and 3) create and maintain minutes of its meetings.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law and that it violated the Law by failing to create and maintain minutes of its 
meetings. We decline to review the other allegations where they were untimely raised. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s 
response, and the request for further review. We also reviewed video recordings of various 
Monson Select Board (the “Board”) meetings cited in the complaint, including the Board’s 
December 14, 2021, meeting.2 Finally, we reviewed several sets of the Board’s meeting 
minutes.3 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 Video recordings of the Board’s meetings may be found at https://m-
pact.tv/maestrov/app/client/webSite/index.php?s=3&category=2.  
3 Meeting minutes for Monson public bodies can be found at https://www.monson-ma.gov/agendacenter. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Monson Select Board (the “Board”) held a 
meeting on December 14, 2021. During the meeting, Town Administrator Jennifer Wolowicz 
explained to the Board that she and the Town’s Finance Director, Jamie Farnum, were seeking 
authorization from the Board to create a committee to review applications for American Rescue 
Plan Act (“ARPA”) funds. Administrator Wolowicz explained that this would be an “internal” 
committee made up of Town employees and that the Committee would review applications, meet 
with applicants, and then bring formal recommendations to the Board, which has final authority 
to approve the award of ARPA funds.  
 
 Thereafter, Board Chair Patricia Oney and Board member Mary Hull asked questions 
about ARPA funds in general and about the Committee. Member Hull expressed her desire to 
have residents serve on the Committee as she understood the issue of ARPA funds to be of 
particular interest to residents. Administrator Wolowicz explained that she preferred not to 
include residents on the Committee due to not being able to ensure representation of all interests, 
the ability of the Committee to meet during the workday if comprised entirely of Town 
employees, and a belief that the Committee would not have to comply with the Open Meeting 
Law if comprised entirely of Town employees. Administrator Wolowicz further explained that 
the public could reach out to her and she would be happy to invite them to Committee meetings. 
Finally, it was noted that recommendations would have to come before the Board and so 
members of the public would have access to any formal recommendations the Committee made.  
 
 At the conclusion of this discussion, Chair Oney asked Member Hull if she would make a 
motion to appoint the following people to the Committee: Dr. Cheryl Clarke, Superintendent of 
Schools; Jamie Farnum, Director of Finance; Brian Harris, Fire Chief; Craig Jalbert, Water and 
Sewer Superintendent; Steve Kozloski, Police Chief; Dan Laroche, Director of Community 
Development; Ben Murphy, Highway Surveyor; Tim Pascale, Director of Parks and Recreation; 
and Jennifer Wolowicz, Town Administrator. Member Hull so moved, and the Board voted to 
appoint the above-listed individuals to the Committee.    
 
 At various meetings starting in 2022, the Committee updated the Board and brought forth 
proposals for ARPA funding, which the Board then considered and discussed. For example, on 
February 22, March 8, and March 14, 2022, the Committee brought forth, and the Board 
discussed, the possibility of using ARPA funds for “Premium Pay,” with the Board ultimately 
voting not to move forward with the proposal.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). To this end the Open Meeting Law requires that all 
meetings of public bodies be properly noticed and that, unless lawfully convened in executive 
session, all meetings of public bodies be open to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a)-(b). 
Additionally, the Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
As an initial matter, we note that the Committee asserts that the complaint was untimely 
filed with the Committee. Based on the information before us, we agree that the complaint was 
untimely with respect to the allegations that the Committee failed to post meeting notices and 
failed to hold meetings open to the public. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4); OML 
Declination 2-8-22 (Milton Select Board) (“When reviewing the timeliness of a complaint we 
consider when the action that is alleged to have violated the Open Meeting Law was reasonably 
discoverable, not when an individual complainant became aware of the action or of the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law.”).4 However, because the Open Meeting Law imposes a 
continuing obligation on public bodies to maintain minutes of all meetings, see G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(a), we find that the complaint is not untimely with respect to the allegation that the 
Committee has failed to create and maintain meeting minutes. See OML 2024-99; OML 2020-
69; OML 2019-133; OML 2018-115; OML 2013-45. Therefore, we find it necessary to 
determine whether the Committee is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law such that it 
is required to create and maintain meeting minutes. We find that it is. 
 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and individuals acting as public 
body members. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Law defines “public body” as “a multiple-
member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative 
branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or 
otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. To determine 
whether a multiple-member entity is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, there are 
three factors we consider: 1) the entity must be “within” government and not excluded from the 
definition of “public body”; 2) the entity must be a “body” empowered to act collectively; and 3) 
the entity must serve a “public purpose.” See OML 2017-118; OML 2016- 102; OML 2012-20; 
OML 2011-42; OML 2010-1. 
 
The Law additionally defines “subcommittee” to include “any multiple-member body 
created to advise or make recommendations to a public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Whether a 
public body created a subcommittee is a fact-intensive inquiry and our analysis hinges on the 
public body’s actions and whether it intended to create a multiple-member body. For example, 
we have found that no subcommittee was created where a single volunteer was sought to work 
on a matter and another board member thereafter, on their own initiative, volunteered to assist. 
OML 2017-111. On the other hand, we have found that a subcommittee was created where 
multiple volunteers were sought to work on a matter and after two individuals volunteered, the 
public body, by consensus, formally agreed to the arrangement. OML 2018-23. Additionally, we 
have found in some cases that even if a public body did not literally intend to create a 
subcommittee, the body’s actions clearly created a subcommittee. See OML 2023-32; OML 
2023-32.  
 
We have consistently found that groups of employees who work together to carry out 
their job duties, which groups lack a fixed membership and are not empowered to take collective 
action, are not public bodies subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2023-174 (finding that 
a team of employees directed by the superintendent and mayor to gather information, engage the 
public, and make recommendations to the superintendent and mayor regarding renovations and 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
updates to school facilities was not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law); OML 2022-
56 (explaining that city planning department staff who worked together to review wetlands 
ordinances and propose amendments for consideration by the city council did not constitute a 
public body); OML 2021-150 (explaining that a group of federal, state, and local employees who 
coordinated on a project was not a public body where the group lacked a defined membership 
and set quorum and was not empowered to act collectively); OML 2015-41 (“Though several 
individuals work for the Agency, it is not a multiple member body empowered to act collectively 
because it does not have a fixed membership requiring a vote by a quorum of members in order 
to make decisions and conduct business.”). Similarly, we have explained that government 
agencies and municipal departments and their employees are not public bodies subject to the 
Open Meeting Law. See OML Declination 11-2-15 (Massachusetts Division of Marine 
Fisheries); OML Declination 4-13-20 (Town of Plymouth); OML Declination 3-26-21 (City of 
Boston). 
 
However, we have found a body to be subject to the Open Meeting Law even though its 
membership was comprised entirely of municipal employees where the body was affirmatively 
created by a parent public body and was empowered to act collectively. See OML 2012-28. In 
OML 2012-28 we found that the Montague By-Law Review Committee was a public body 
subject to the Open Meeting Law, and specifically that it was a subcommittee of the Montague 
Board of Selectmen, even though its membership was comprised entirely of town employees. In 
support of this finding, we explained that the By-Law Review Committee had been created by a 
formal vote of the Board of Selectmen; had been empowered to act collectively where it was 
charged with reviewing the town’s by-laws and making a recommendation to the Board of 
Selectmen; and had served a public purpose by reviewing the town’s by-laws. Furthermore, we 
explained that in creating the committee, the Board of Selectmen 
 
was not directing its own staff to act (i.e. the Board’s secretary or administrative 
staff), nor was it directing a specific Town department to act within the jurisdiction 
of that department (i.e. the planning department on a planning matter). The Board 
appointed members from a cross-section of Town offices to conduct a broad review 
of the Town’s by-laws. That created a public body, and the public should therefore 
have been able to witness the deliberations of the Committee. 
 
OML 2012-28. 
 
As in OML 2012-28, here the Board formally created the Committee by vote during the 
Board’s December 14, 2021, meeting and appointed members from a cross-section of Town 
offices. Additionally, the Committee was empowered to act collectively where it was charged 
with reviewing applications for ARPA funding and making formal recommendations to the 
Board regarding which applications and projects should be awarded ARPA funds allocated to the 
Town. Finally, the Committee served a public purpose in reviewing and vetting applications for 
ARPA funds allocated to the Town. Based on these facts we find that the Committee is a 
subcommittee of the Board and is subject to the Open Meeting Law.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee failed to create and maintain meeting minutes. 
The Committee does not dispute this. Instead, in its response to the complaint, the Committee 
explains that “after conferring with Town Counsel, and in a good faith effort to comply with the 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
OML, the Committee commits to posting notice and recording minutes for its meetings hence 
forth, regardless of whether it can be considered to be a public body that is subject to the OML.” 
(emphasis in original). Indeed, a search of meeting minutes posted to the Town’s website shows 
minutes for Committee meetings held after the date of the present complaint but none for 
meetings held prior to the complaint. Although we commend the Committee for its commitment 
to comply with the Open Meeting Law going forward, we find that it violated the Law by failing 
to create and maintain minutes for its past meetings. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee is a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law and that it violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to create and maintain 
minutes of its meetings. We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law and caution that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the 
future may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. Additionally, we order the 
Committee, within 90 days of the date of this letter, to create minutes for its past meetings and to 
certify to our office that it has complied with this order.  
 
We acknowledge the potential difficulty in creating past meeting minutes when, as here, 
the number of missing meeting minutes may be voluminous. Nevertheless, we order the 
Committee to create minutes for its past meetings to the best of its ability, through whatever 
means are available, including the memories and individual notations of the attendees. See OML 
2021-118 (ordering public body to create, to the best of its ability, minutes it had failed to create 
or maintain for meetings spanning more than three decades); OML 2020-53 (noting that, 
although “time ha[d] passed since [the] meeting occurred, the Board should add the requisite 
level of detail to the minutes to the best of its ability”); OML 2020-69 (ordering a school 
committee to create and approve minutes for meetings of a subcommittee held over a three-year 
period). We remind the Committee that any minutes it creates must accurately capture what was 
actually discussed and decided during the meetings. See OML 2020-101; OML 2020-62.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 

===PAGE 6===
6 
 
cc: Jennifer Wolowicz, Town Administrator (via email: jwolowicz@monson-ma.gov)  
 Mary F. Watson, Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@monson-ma.gov) 
Roxanne Gunther (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
