===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
December 10,2012 
OML 2012 — 112 
Gregg Corbo, Esq. 
Kopelman & Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street, 12thFloor 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received a complaint from Peter Golrick dated May 23, 2012, alleging 
that the Montague Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about 
April 27, 2012,1  and you responded on behalf of the Board to the original complaint by 
letter dated May 1, 2012. In his complaint, Mr. Golrick alleges that the Board engaged in a 
deliberation and took action outside of a properly posted meeting regarding the submission 
of an article on the Town Warrant to amend one of the Town's by-laws. 2  Mr. Golrick 
requests that this Office order the Board to remove the Article from the Warrant by vote in 
open session, admit in open session that it acted improperly, apologize for its "intentional 
violation" of the Open Meeting Law, and formally dissolve the Montague By-Law Review 
Committee (the "Committee"). 
We reviewed the April 27, 2012 complaint; your May 1, 2012 response; the May 
23, 2012 complaint filed with our office that included a separate letter to our office 
1  We note that the complainant initially filed the complaint in the form of a letter on April 17, 2012 and 
subsequently attached it to an Open Meeting Law complaint form, as required by 940 CMR 29.05(1), on 
April 27, 2012. 
2  The complainant further alleges that the Board "exceeded its authority by adding item(s) to the Warrant 
after the specified and voted closing date for Article submission" and "failed to identify the sponsor of the 
Article in the Warrant." The Division of Open Government only enforces and interprets the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Open Meeting Law does not govern Town Meeting warrant procedures; 
therefore we decline to review these allegations. 
0 
===PAGE 2===
regarding the by-law; a May 31, 2012 letter from the complainant to our office; and your 
emails to our office. We also reviewed a copy of the meeting notice and the draft meeting 
minutes from the February 9, 2012 Committee meeting, as well as a copy of the meeting 
notice and the meeting minutes from the April 9, 2012 Board meeting. Finally, we spoke 
by telephone with Town Administrator Frank Abbondanzio on October 30, 2012. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law because it did not engage in a deliberation outside of a properly posted meeting. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. 
By way of background, the Montague Board of Selectmen voted unanimously to 
create a By-Law Review Committee (the "Committee") at its April 4, 2011 meeting. See 
OML 2012-28 (where we found that the Montague By-Law Review Committee was a 
public body subject to the Open Meeting Law). The Committee consisted of seven 
members, all of whom were Town employees, including the Town Administrator, the 
Town Clerk, the Building Inspector, the Town Planner and Conservation Agent, the 
Director of Public Health, the Chief of Police, and the Superintendent of Public Works. Id. 
According to the Board, members of the Town staff identified a number of flaws in Town 
by-laws that needed to be corrected or updated, and recommended to the Board that a by-
law review committee be created to review all of the Town's by-laws. Id. The Committee 
held several meetings to discuss the by-law changes. Id. On April 9, 2011, the Board 
voted to submit the by-law changes through an article on the Town Meeting Warrant, 
which was subsequently voted down at Town Meeting on May 7, 2011. 
During our telephone conversation, Mr. Abbondanzio stated that following the 
2011 Town Meeting, the Committee did not meet again until early 2012 when he decided 
to revisit the by-law entitled "Unregistered Motor Vehicles" (the "by-law") because it 
remained an issue for the Town of Montague. On February 7, 2012, the Committee posted 
notice for its February 9, 2012 meeting, stating that the purpose of the meeting was "to 
review proposed changes to existing by-laws and/or the creation of new by-laws for 
consideration by Town Meeting." The listing of topics to review and discuss were "(1) 
[u]nregistered vehicle by-law; (2) [n]on-[c]riminalization; (3) [o]ther by-law related 
discussions not known prior to the 48 hour posting notice." 
On February 9, 2012, the Committee convened a meeting in open session. 
According to the meeting minutes,3  the Committee discussed proposed changes to the by-
law, among other things, however it took no action. Subsequently, Building Inspector 
David Jensen, who is a Committee member, culled through the meeting's comments and 
3  We note that the Committee's minutes remain in draft form because it has not convened another meeting. 
We remind the Committee of its obligation to approve minutes in a timely manner, however. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(c). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
drafted the final version of the by-law's proposed changes through an article that he 
submitted in his capacity as Building Inspector to Mr. Abbondanzio for inclusion on the 
draft Town Meeting Warrant.4  
On April 5, 2012, the Board posted notice for its April 9, 2012 meeting. One of the 
items listed under the heading, "Frank Abbondanzio, Town Administrators Report, votes 
may be taken," was "Annual Town Meeting Warrant, May 5, 2012- To approve and 
execute draft warrant, attached hereto." A copy of the draft Warrant was attached to the 
meeting notice. On April 9, 2012, the Board convened a meeting in open session. Barbara 
Allen, who was chair of the Board at the time, made a motion to place Article 26 
(regarding the proposed amended by-law) on the Annual Town Meeting Warrant, which 
was unanimously approved by the Board. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School  
Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive 
session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)—(b), 21. A "meeting" is defined, in 
relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body's jurisdiction[.]" G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined, in relevant part, as 
"an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, 
between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id. 
On February 9, 2012, the Committee, not the Board, convened a properly posted 
meeting to discuss proposed changes to certain existing by-laws before the upcoming 
Town Meeting. The Committee did not take any action during the meeting, however Mr. 
Jensen considered the meeting's discussion in drafting the language of the proposed article, 
which he submitted to Mr. Abbondanzio for inclusion on the draft Town Meeting Warrant. 
The draft Town Meeting Warrant was attached to the Board's notice for the meeting 
scheduled for April 9, 2012. On April 9, 2012, Mr. Abbondanzio presented the draft Town 
Meeting Warrant to the Board for its approval. Accordingly, there is no evidence to 
suggest that the Board engaged in a deliberation regarding the proposed article outside of a 
properly posted meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law because it did not engage in a deliberation outside of a properly posted 
meeting. 
4  One of Mr. Abbondanzio's responsibilities as Town Administrator is to submit the draft Town Meeting 
Warrant to the Board for its approval. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our 
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any 
facts in this letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
 
(iL Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Peter Golrick 
Montague Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
4 