===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 26, 2018 
OML 2018-94 
Katherine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan on May 21 alleging that the 
Ashland Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 9, and you responded, on behalf 
of the Board, by letter dated May 17. The complaint alleges that the Board's April 4 meeting 
notice lacked sufficient detail because it did not identify the specific candidates for appointment 
to the Mindess School Building Committee. 
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Board's response to the complaint, the complaint filed 
with our office requesting further review, and the notices of, and open session minutes from, the 
Board's April 4 and April 18 meetings. We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting "at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays" and that every 
notice include "the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies 
must list topics for discussion with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to 
include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35; OML 
2012-71; OML 2011-44.2 
Here, the Board timely posted notice for a meeting to be held on April 4. One topic on 
the notice was "Appoint Members of Mindess School Building Committee - including BOS 
member." The Board acknowledges that it failed to disclose on the notice the names of the 
specific individuals who were to be appointed that evening to the Building Committee. To the 
extent that the Board is aware of the identity of the individuals it will consider appointing, it 
should take the additional step of listing their names in the meeting notice. See OML 2017-148; 
OML 2016-167. Because the notice did not include these specific details about each 
appointment, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We note that the Board included the names of the individuals to be appointed to the 
Mindess School Building Committee on its April 18 meeting notice and then reaffirmed the 
appointments during that meeting. We commend the Board for reposting and considering this 
discussion topic at its next meeting in response to the complaint. In light of the Board's remedial 
steps in response to the complaint, we order no additional remedial action. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
cc; Stephen Morgan 
Ashland Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www. mass. go v/ago/openmeeting. 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 