===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
July 16, 2019 
OML 2019-83
Thomas W. McEnaney, Esq.
KP Law
101 Arch Street
Boston, MA 02110
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney McEnaney:
This office received a complaint from Peter Stanley, dated April 26, alleging that the 
Phillipston Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 21 and you responded, on behalf 
of the Board, by letter dated March 11. In his complaint, Mr. Stanley alleges that i) the notice 
for the Board’s January 30 meeting lacked sufficient detail because it did not contain the date 
and time of posting; ii) the Board discussed topics during the January 30 meeting that were not 
listed on the notice; and iii) the Board limited public comment at its January 30 meeting.
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting law by failing to 
include the time that its January 30 meeting notice was posted. We find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed 
with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notice and open session minutes 
of the Board’s January 16 and January 30 meetings, as well as a video recording of the January 
30 meeting.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. In mid-December of 2018, a firefighter filed a complaint 
with Chief Administrative Officer (“CAO”) Kevin Flynn alleging that a Fire Department Captain 
made inappropriate comments about a newly hired female firefighter. Over the next month, 
seven members of the Fire Department resigned, implying that their reasons for resigning were
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2019, unless otherwise indicated.

===PAGE 2===
because of the Town’s lack of response to the complaint. Shortly after the resignations, the 
Town discovered that files were missing or altered, and certain computers were inaccessible.
On January 28, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on January 30. The 
notice included four topics: Announcements, Scheduled Appointments, New Business and Old 
Business. Specifically, under “Scheduled Appointments,” the notice listed “firefighter 
appointments” but did not list the names of any specific individuals who would be appointed;2 
and under “New Business,” the notice listed “Department Head Reports” but did not include any 
description of what the Board anticipated discussing during this portion of the meeting.
The January 30 meeting was held as planned. During the meeting, Chair John Telepciak 
opened the meeting with a “statement regarding a recent issue at the fire department.” Chair 
Telepciak then read the following statement, which was written by CAO Flynn and provided to 
Chair Telepciak just prior to the meeting:
The Select Board Office received a complaint from one individual regarding an 
incident with another individual in the Fire Department. They were the only two 
individuals involved in the complaint. There were no other witnesses to the 
alleged incident. The complaint was investigated in accordance with town policy.
The parties were offered the opportunity to meet individually and confidentially 
with the Select Board in Executive Session. The complainant declined the offer.
The Select Board reviewed the matter in Executive Session and took what it 
deemed appropriate action. The matter is now closed.
The Board then approved two sets of minutes and discussed the appointment of two 
individuals to the Fire Department, one of whom was a Fire Captain’s father. Members of the 
public who were in attendance, including the complainant, questioned the appointment of the 
Fire Captain’s father. Specifically, the complainant spoke for approximately one minute about 
the physical qualifications of that individual. Board member Terry Dymek suggested that the 
discussion was veering off topic. The complainant continued to speak and CAO Flynn told him 
to be silent. The Board then unanimously approved the appointment of the two individuals 
pending physicals.
During “Department Head Reports,” the Board heard from the Police Chief, Fire Chief 
Town Clerk, and CAO Flynn. CAO Flynn discussed issues at the Fire Department, including 
missing or altered files, inaccessible computers, and missing equipment. He advised that the 
Town’s insurance company was sending forensic investigators to examine the computers. CAO 
Flynn then stated that he asked Gardner City Solicitor John Flick to conduct an investigative 
study regarding the management practices at the Fire Department, which will be paid for by the 
Town’s insurance company.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and that every
2 Although not raised in the complaint, we remind the Board that to the extent that it is aware of the identities of the 
individuals for whom the Board is considering appointments during the meeting, it should take the additional step of 
listing the individuals’ names in the meeting notice. See OML 2015-196; OML 2011-11.
2

===PAGE 3===
notice include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies 
must list topics for discussion with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to 
include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35; OML 
2012-71; OML 2011-44.3
I. The Notice Failed to Include the Time that it was Posted.
The complaint alleges that the January 30 notice was insufficiently detailed because it 
failed to contain the date and time of posting. Here, the notice included a stamp indicating that it 
was posted on January 28. However, the notice did not include the time that it was posted. The 
date and time that the notice is posted must be conspicuously recorded on or with the notice 
itself. See 940 CMR 29.03(l)(d). We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include the time that the January 30 notice was posted. It is our understanding that the 
Board now includes both the date and time that the notice was posted, and we commend the 
Board for taking such remedial action in response to the complaint.
II. The Notice Provided Sufficient Detail with Respect to Certain Open Session
Topics.
The complaint also alleges that the Board discussed topics during its January 30 meeting 
that were not posted on the notice. Specifically, the notice did not include the statement read by 
Chair Telepciak at the beginning of the meeting and did not provide any specific topics that the 
Board would discuss under “Department Head Reports.” The Board argues that it did not 
discuss the statement made by the chair and it did not anticipate discussing any matters raised by 
the Department heads during the meeting. We find that the Board did not have any substantive 
discussion regarding the Fire Department after Chair Telepciak read the statement that was 
provided to him by CAO Flynn. Where a public body does not actually engage in any 
deliberation on a particular topic, it cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the 
sufficiency of the meeting notice. See OML 2016-76.
With respect to the reports by the Department heads, we understand that generally the 
Department heads simply provide status updates to the Board and that these updates are 
generally not pieces of business that Board members anticipate discussing. See OML 2011-23; 
see also G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). However, we encourage the Chair to solicit a more detailed set of 
topics from the Department head for the meeting notice when the Chair anticipates that they will 
provide a report. See OML 2013-111; OML 2011 -23; see also OML 2012-19 (“best practice 
dictates that the Chair make reasonable efforts to ascertain what the Superintendent plans to 
discuss and include all matters that are reasonably anticipated in the meeting notice”).
While we do not find a violation here, we note our concern that CAO Flynn discussed the 
ongoing issues with the Fire Department, which appeared to be a topic of significant public
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
interest, and that the Board was unaware of that discussion especially in light of the statement 
read by the chair at the beginning of the January 30 meeting.
III. The Board Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Restricting Public
Participation.
Finally, the complainant alleges that the Board limited his ability to speak during the 
January 30 meeting. The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow public 
participation in its meetings, but rather provides that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a 
public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be 
silent.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g). The Open Meeting Law therefore gives discretion to the chair of a 
public body to determine who may speak or otherwise participate at a meeting, and to set limits 
on public participation. See OML 2014-23; OML 2013-64; OML 2012-59. Here, the 
complainant spoke for approximately one minute and was then told to be silent by CAO Flynn. 
As it is within the chair's discretion to limit public participation during a meeting, he did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law by doing so here.4 However, we encourage public bodies to 
allow public participation as time and circumstances permit. See OML 2019-19; OML 2015-12; 
OML 2014-129; OML 2012-59. We note that the chair did allow public comments throughout 
the meeting with limited interruptions.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include the time that its January 30 meeting notice was posted. We order the Board’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future 
violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
KerryAnhe Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
Assisted by: Stephen Delcuze, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government
cc: Peter Stanley
Phillipston Select Board
4 We offer no opinion on whether the Board’s restriction of the complainant’s statements is a violation of some other 
law or regulation outside the scope of the Division’s review.
4

===PAGE 5===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
5
