===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
September 5, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 135 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Thomas A. Mullen, Esq. 
Law Offices of Thomas A. Mullen LLC 
40 Salem Street Building 2 Suite 12 
Lynnfield, MA 01940 
 
tmullen@thomasamullenpc.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Mullen: 
 
This office received a complaint from Scot McCauley on May 20, 2025, alleging that the 
Wakefield Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) and the Wakefield Permanent 
Building Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.   
The complaint was originally filed with the Commission and the Committee on March 24, and 
you responded on behalf of the public bodies by correspondence dated April 10.
1  In his 18-page 
complaint, Mr. McCauley alleges that: 
 
1. notice of the Commission’s March 4 meeting was not sufficiently specific;  
2. a subcommittee of the Committee, comprised of three members of the Committee and 
called the “Working Group,” has been communicating and meeting without posting 
notice or creating minutes; 
3. the Committee has delegated the creation of meeting notices and meeting minutes to 
an outside contractor; 
4. minutes posted online do not reflect when they were received and posted; 
5. the chair of the Committee prematurely ended the complainant’s public comment at 
the Committee’s March 13 meeting; 
6. a roll call was not taken at the beginning of the Committee’s March 13 meeting; and 
7. minutes were not approved by roll call at the Committee’s March 13 meeting. 
 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2025. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Working Group is a subcommittee of the 
Committee and that it violated the Open Meeting Law when it did not post notice or create 
minutes of its meetings.  We find that notice of the Commission’s March 4 meeting was 
sufficiently specific and that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law at its March 
13 meeting when it did not take roll call at the commencement of the meeting and did not vote to 
approve minutes by roll call.  We decline to review the remaining allegations of the complaint as 
they fall outside the Open Meeting Law.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint, the response of the Commission and the Committee, and the complainant’s 
request for further review.  We also reviewed the notice and minutes of the Committee’s March 
13 meeting.  We reviewed minutes of a Town Council meeting held on April 26, 2021.  We 
viewed recordings of meetings the Committee held on July 27, 2023, November 14, 2024, and 
March 13, 2025.
2  Finally, I communicated with you and with the complainant via email. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. Notice of the Commission’s March 4 meeting was sufficiently specific.3 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978); see also OML 2023-56.4  Pursuant to the Open Meeting 
Law, “[e]xcept in an emergency ... a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b).  The notice must be “printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain 
the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  Id. 
 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the publ
ic could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s 
discussion.  See OML 2024-109; OML 2023-3; OML 2019-134.  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an 
informed decision whether to attend the meeting to observe the discussion regarding a topic of 
interest.  See OML 2023-199; OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95.  We have found notice lacking 
when it failed altogether to identify a piece of property or a project to be discussed.  See, e.g., 
OML 2024-67; 2024-43; OML 2023-128.     
 
  
 
2 The recordings were accessed at Wakefield Permanent Building Committee Meeting - July 27, 2023 - YouTube,  
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ly__d64-rmU&list=PL1DTsZo-7YGeBI2JGAhzC-d3wALokc0xF&index=10 
and https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KXj9ZGdMb8w, respectively. 
3 The complaint states at several points that the Commission’s notice of the March 4 “ public hearing” did not 
comply with the Open Meeting Law.  The Division of Open Government’s statutory authority concerns compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c 30A, §§ 18-25.  To the extent that the complaint alleges that the Commission 
violated any other law applicable to the conduct of the March 4 hearing, we decline to review such allegations.   
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Notice of the Commission’s March 4 meeting included the following topic: 
 
7:30 – DEP#313-632 – Town of Wakefield – 60 Farm Street – Request to amend Order 
of Conditions for the installation of lighting at Burnett Field within 100’ of a wetland. 
 
Mr. McCauley alleges that notice of the March 4 meeting was insufficiently specific, 
maintaining that the athletic field to be discussed is located at 30 Farm Street, not 60 Farm 
Street, and has been “most commonly known as ‘Blatz Field’ since 1955.”  We find the notice to 
be sufficient.  On April 26, 2021, the Town Council voted to rename the softball field at 
Wakefield Memorial High School “Blatz Park, Meghan Burnett Field.”  In light of the formal 
vote to rename the field several years prior to the subject meeting, we find that “Burnett Field” 
adequately identified the athletic field.  Moreover, 60 Farm Street is the address of the Wakefield 
Memorial High School, according to the High School’s website.  As Burnett Field services the 
High School, a reasonable member of the public could read the topic on the notice and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. 
 
Mr. McCauley also alleges that
  the notice did not include sufficient information 
regarding the lighting that was to be discussed at the property.  He implies that a member of the 
public would be left to wonder “Is it walkway lights?  Is it security lighting?  Is it pathway 
lighting?  Is it landscape lighting?”  We find that in the context of an order of conditions related 
to a ball field, a reasonable member of the public could read “installation of lighting . . . within 
100’ of a wetland” and understand the anticipated nature of the Commission’s discussion.  The 
Open Meeting Law does not require a meeting notice to list all tangential issues related to a 
particular topic.  See OML 2024-109; OML 2021-114; OML 2016-120.  The notice was not 
required to identify the type of lighting, the height of the light posts or the proximity of the 
lighting to the wetland.  Therefore, the notice was sufficiently specific as to the reference to 
lighting. 
 
II. The Working Group is a
  subcommittee of the Committee and it violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to post notice of its meetings or keep minutes.  
 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to a public body, which is defined, in relevant part, 
as “
a multiple member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or 
legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, 
appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  
The Open Meeting Law definition of a subcommittee includes “any multiple-member body 
created to advise or make recommendations to a public body.”  Id.  Where a public body creates 
a multiple-member body and charges it with advising the creating body on public policy through 
collective action, that entity will likely be a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law.  See 
OML 2012-28.   
 
The C
ommittee does not dispute that the Working Group is a subcommittee.  Based upon 
our review of minutes and meeting recordings, we find that it is.  Our review of meeting minutes 
did not uncover a vote to create the Working Group.  It appears that its formation was first 
discussed at a Committee meeting on July 27, 2023, in relation to construction of the high 
school.  At that meeting, Member Charles “Chip” Tarbell explained that on prior projects, the 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Committee has formed working groups of three members to “deal with issues that come up,” and 
“review the development as it goes along,” among other things.5  The three members are “chosen 
for their project expertise,” according to the public bodies’ response to Mr. McCauley’s 
complaint.  Prior working groups have met weekly, or as needed.  They expedite construction, as 
the Committee grants them authority to approve change orders up to a certain amount.  The 
Working Group did post notice of at least one of its meetings, held on April 9, 2024.   
 
At the Committee’s Marc
 h 13, 2025, meeting, Committee Member Tarbell (who also is a 
member of the Working Group) explained that “[t]he Working Group gets together in an interim 
time to look at specific things and changes and things and then we look at what’s happening with 
the project and bring things back to the Committee.”  The Working Group gives the Committee 
updates at the latter’s monthly meetings.  At the Committee’s November 14, 2024, meeting, a 
member noted that a topic under discussion was “a Working Group conversation” and that the 
Working Group would “bring whatever the final decision is back to the whole group.”  Similarly, 
during a discussion of invoices or change orders, one of the members told the Committee: “What 
we can report as the Working Group is that we reviewed. . . all of these, and we accept them as. . 
. legitimate.”  In light of the Working Group’s ongoing role, carrying out work of the Committee 
and making recommendations to the Committee, we find that the Working Group is a 
subcommittee of the Committee.  See OML 2024-93 (finding that working group that was to 
report back to full committee “to show where we are, what we’re thinking, [and] get direction” 
was a subcommittee); OML 2023-177 (finding that “when the Board voted to ‘comprise a 
working group,’ defined the membership of that group, and delegated the responsibility of 
reviewing and organizing ARPA requests to those specific members, the Board’s action created a 
subcommittee”).   
 
While the Committee does not dispute that the Working Group is a subcommittee, it 
nonethe
less denies any violation of the Open Meeting Law, arguing that the Working Group only 
meets during site inspections.  According to the Committee, members of the Working Group ask 
questions at the site inspections “but carefully avoid deliberating and never take votes.”  To 
conduct an on-site inspection in compliance with the Open Meeting Law, a public body has three 
options: (1) post notice of the inspection as a meeting, provided the property is accessible to 
everyone, including members of the public; (2) visit the property as individuals or in groups that 
constitute less than a quorum so as to avoid deliberation among a quorum; or (3) visit the 
property as a quorum, but refrain from asking any questions of the property owner or otherwise 
discussing any matters within the public body’s jurisdiction until the public body convenes in a 
properly noticed meeting.  See OML 2023-184; OML 2018-57; OML 2017-44.  Even if the 
Working Group “carefully avoid[ed] deliberating and never [took] votes,” it likely would be in 
violation of the Open Meeting Law if members asked questions at the site inspection, as stated in 
the Committee’s response.  In any event, aside from the site inspections, minutes of the 
Committee’s meetings make it clear that the Working Group does have discussions outside of 
 
5 Prior projects that involved a working group of the Committee include the public safety building and the Galvin 
middle school.  Also, on August 14, the Committee appears to have formed yet another working group, this one 
related to construction of a new salt shed.  See recording of August 14 meeting at Wakefield Permanent Building 
Committee Meeting: August 14, 2025 - YouTube.  Because the complaint only allege s violations in relation to the 
high school working group, our investigation and findings are limited to that working group.  
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Committee meetings, when it reviews documents and prepares recommendations to the full 
Committee.   
 
III. The Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law at its March 13 meeting 
when it did not take roll call at the commencement of the meeting and did not 
vote to approve minutes by roll call. 
 
If one or more members of a public body participate in a meeting remotely, the chair 
must announce the names of any such members at the beginning of the meeting.  940 CMR 
29.10(7)(b).  Additionally, all votes taken during any meeting in which a member participates 
remotely must be by roll call vote.  940 CMR 29.10(7)(c).  From the recording of the March 13 
meeting, it is difficult to see all members at the meeting room table.  However, there is no 
affirmative evidence before us that any of the members participated remotely.  Moreover, the 
recording shows that some individuals attended the meeting remotely but none of the members 
are shown on remote cameras.  Where no Committee members participated in the meeting 
remotely, the Committee was not obligated to announce the names of members in attendance or 
vote by roll call.  Therefore, the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
 
IV. We decline to review the remaining allegations of the complaint. 
 
The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law.  We decline to review allegations that the Committee delegated the creation of meeting 
notices and meeting minutes to an outside contractor and that minutes posted online do not 
reflect when they were received and posted.  The Open Meeting Law does not dictate who must 
create notices or minutes; nor must minutes reflect the date of receipt or posting.  Indeed, the 
Law does not require that minutes be posted at all.  Therefore, even if true, none of these alleges 
a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  To the extent that the complaint alleges that meeting 
notices are “very [g]eneric and boilerplate,” we have not been directed to any specific notice or 
topic that is alleged to be insufficient.  Our office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies 
based on generalized allegations. See OML 2023-242; OML 2021-129; OML 2016-57.   
 
We agree that the complainant’s questions during public comment at the March 13 
meeting were not well received by the Committee.  The complainant was addressed sternly
6 and 
with condescension.7  Nonetheless, for the following reason, we decline to review the 
complainant’s allegation that he was denied the opportunity to express himself during public 
comment at the Committee’s March 13 meeting.  At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the 
requirement that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(a) (except when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to 
the public.”).  Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically 
present as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  
See OML 2020-100; OML 2018-75; OML 2016-54.  The Open Meeting Law does not require 
 
6 When the complainant attempted to ask which Committee member was speaking, he was told “you’re done ,” 
although another member did finish responding to his question.   
7 At the conclusion of the complainant’s public comment, after he had raised serious concerns about the role of the 
Working Group, he was told: “It’s great that you have some questions.  Love the fact that you come and watch and 
are interested.” 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
that a public body allow public participation during its meetings but rather provides that “[n]o 
person shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons 
shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.”  G.L. c. 30A § 20(f).  The Division of Open 
Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  Because the allegation 
that his public comment was cut short, even if true, would not constitute a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law in any event, we decline to review this allegation.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons explained above, we find that the Working Group was a subcommittee of 
the Co
mmittee and therefore was fully subject to the Open Meeting Law.  Furthermore, we find 
that where the Working Group failed to create and approve minutes for its meetings, it violated 
the Open Meeting Law.  We order the Working Group, within 60 days of the date of this letter, 
to create minutes for its meetings and that it certify to our office that it has done so.  The 
Working Group must create the meeting minutes through whatever means are available, 
including documents, communications between members, and the memories and notes of the 
attendees.  See, e.g., OML 2020-69 (ordering a school committee to create and approve minutes 
for meetings of a subcommittee held over a three-year period).  If members of the Working 
Group communicated between or among a quorum via email regarding matters within the 
Working Group’s jurisdiction, we order the Working Group, within 60 days of the date of this 
letter, to publicly release all such emails, either by reading them aloud at an open meeting, or by 
attaching the emails to the minutes of an open meeting.  Finally, we order immediate and future 
compliance with the Law’s requirements.  
 
We now c
onsider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Working Group.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Scot McCauley (via email: ) 
Ethan Fleming, Conservation Agent, Wakefield Conservation Commission: 
(efleming@wakefield.ma.us) 
Wakefield Town Clerk (via email: bsheeran@wakefield.ma.us) 
 
 

===PAGE 7===
7 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 