===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 21, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 234 
 
 
Edward M. Pikula, Esq. 
One Financial Plaza 
1350 Main Street, Suite 312 
Springfield, MA 01103 
empikula@outlook.com 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Pikula: 
This office received a complaint from Thomas Shea on May 31, 2022, alleging that the 
Hampden County Regional Retirement Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. You responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated June 17, 2022. The 
complaint alleges that the Board’s notice of its May 4, 2022 meeting lacked sufficient 
specificity.1 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting 
an insufficiently specific notice for its May 4 meeting. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further 
review, and the notice and minutes for the Board’s April 6 and May 4 meetings, as well as the 
notice for the Board’s June 1 meeting. Additionally, we reviewed the complainant’s email to us 
dated July 8 and we communicated over the telephone with the Chair of the Board and Board 
counsel2 on November 30. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on April 6, 
which contained the topics “New Business” and “Old Business” without any additional detail. 
The April 6 meeting was convened as scheduled. Minutes from that meeting reflect that under 
“New Business,” the Chair of the Board recommended that “a Communications Policy be put in 
place to help streamline outside request [sic].” No other discussions about the Communications 
Policy were held and the Board did not take any actions or votes on this topic. For the following 
month, the Board posted notice for its May 4 meeting containing the same topics “New 
Business” and “Old Business,” again without additional detail. The May 4 meeting took place, 
and the minutes reflect the following: 
19. NEW BUSINESS – Mr. 
 Schmaelzle stated he would like a Communications 
Policy and any recommendations to be emailed to himself or Ms. Martin. Atty. 
ViVenzio stated this policy should include filing of request of public documents 
and is just a discussion for the policy. Ms. Hill stated that this will help with our 
invoices from our Attorneys getting billed for addressing other issues that might 
be handled in the office. Mr. Schmaelzle stated if this policy is approved next 
month, it will be posted on our website. Mr. Schmaelzle also informed the Board 
that there will be an Open Meeting Law Webinar on May 5, or May 19
th. 
The Communications Policy was not listed as a topic on the May 4 agenda, eith er under “New 
Business” or elsewhere. In its response, the Board contends that the discussion on May 4 does 
not amount to a “deliberation” and, as such, there was no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
After this complaint was filed with the Board, the Chair of the Board and the complainant spoke 
to discuss the complainant’s concerns. In its subsequent June 1 meeting notice, the Board listed 
the topic as a separate line item, “Agenda Item #16 COMMUNICATIONS POLICY – Board 
to review and discuss vote on the Communications Policy.” 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A foundational requirement of the Open Meeting Law is 
that public bodies post notice of each meeting “at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and that every notice include, among other things, “a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b). Public bodies must list topics for discussion with “sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). 
We have stated that boiler
 plate topics, such as “Old Business” or “New Business,” are 
too vague to offer the public an adequate understanding of the anticipated topics to be discussed 
at that particular meeting; if the chair anticipates discussing a topic under “Old Business” or 
“New Business” more than 48 hours prior to the meeting, then that specific topic must be listed 
in the meeting notice. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); see OML 2021-51; OML 2016-76; OML 2015-127; 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
OML 2013-168; OML 2013-14. 3 The Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to list 
all tangential topics related to a discussion nor does the law require a public body to anticipate 
the course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion, only that it identify the discussion topic 
with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2015-73; OML 2014-127; OML 
2014-58; OML 2014-38. 
Here, the May 4 discussion of the Communications Policy was reasonably anticipated, as 
i
t was raised during the previous April 6 meeting. Accordingly, it should have been included in 
the May 4 notice. The Board asserts that because there was only one opinion expressed, no 
specific proposal was discussed, and no vote occurred, there was no “deliberation” on the topic. 
Thus, it contends there was no violation of the Open Meeting Law. We disagree. The Law 
defines “deliberation” broadly as “an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business 
within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of 
other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed 
at a meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A one-way 
communication from one public body member to a quorum on business within a body's 
jurisdiction is deliberation, even if no other members respond. See OML 2020-136; OML 2019-
144. The Open Meeting Law’s definition of “deliberation” is not limited to decision-making or 
opinion communications. See OML 2021-12; OML 2019-151. According to the May 4 meeting 
minutes: the Chair of the Board stated that recommendations for the policy should be sent to him 
or Ms. Martin and “if this policy is approved next month, it will be posted on [the Board’s] 
website”; Board counsel stated that the policy “should include filing of request for public 
documents”; and Ms. Hill believed that such a policy would help with “invoices from [Board] 
Attorneys getting billed for addressing other issues that might be handled in the office.” Such 
discourse falls squarely within the definition of “deliberation.”
4  
Where the notice for the Board’s May 4 mee ting included only a boilerplate heading 
without additional detail regarding an anticipated topic for discussion, we find the Board violated 
the Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently specific meeting notice. See OML 2021-121; 
OML 2017-14. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-m eeting-law. 
4 We recognize that the Board took corrective action and appropriately listed the Communication Policy as a topic in  
the June 1 meeting notice. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution 
that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law.  
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
the Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Mary L. Nguyen 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
cc: Thomas Shea (via e -mail: ) 
 Edward M. Pikula, Esq. (via e- mail: empikula@outlook.com) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
