===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
July 18,2019 
OML 2019-86
Stuart Beckley 
126 Main Street 
Ware, MA 01082
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Mr. Beckley:
This office received a complaint from Kim Mongeau on June 17, 2019, alleging that the 
Ware Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 10, and you responded on behalf of 
the Board by letter dated June 19, 2019.2 In her complaint, Ms. Mongeau alleges that the Board: 
1) deliberated outside a properly noticed public meeting; 2) failed to perform a roll call vote to 
enter executive session; and 3) failed to adequately describe the purpose for the executive 
session.
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to describe the litigation to be discussed in executive session and by failing to conduct a roll call 
vote prior to entering executive session, but not in the other ways alleged. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. Additionally, we reviewed, in 
camera, the minutes of the Board’s March 19 executive session and an email from the Board’s 
attorney dated January 25. We also reviewed the meeting notice, open session minutes, and 
video recording of the March 19 meeting.3
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2019.
2 We note that the Board did not respond to Ms. Mongeau’s complaint within the time frame required by law. Unless 
an extension of time has been requested, a public body must, within 14 business days or receipt of an Open Meeting 
Law complaint, respond to the complainant and send a copy of the complaint to the Attorney General’s Office and 
notify the Attorney General’s Office of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, §23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5), (6).
3 The video is available at http://waretv.org/vod/.

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body; thus, three 
members constitute a quorum.
On February 24, Thomas Coulombe filed an Open Meeting Law complaint against the 
Board. On March 13, this office granted an extension until March 22 to respond to that Open 
Meeting Law complaint. On March 22, the Board’s attorney responded to that complaint.
On March 19, the Board held a regularly scheduled meeting. The meeting notice listed 
nine substantive topics for discussion, including “Open Meeting Law Complaint Review and 
Response” and “Executive Session: MGL Chapter 30A, Section 21(a) #3 Litigation.” The Board 
discussed the Open Meeting Law complaint in open session. Because the executive session 
minutes have not been publicly released, we do not recount their content in detail here.
However, we note that during the executive session the Committee discussed threatened 
litigation against the town.
At the end of the open session, the chair requested a motion to enter executive session. 
Selectman Alan Whitney made a motion to “move into executive session under Mass. General 
Law Chapter 30A, Section 21(a), #3 Litigation and not to return to open session.” All five Board 
members voiced their assent and raised their hands. The chair recognized the vote as unanimous 
and the Board moved into executive session.
DISCUSSION
I. The Board did not deliberate outside a properly noticed public meeting.
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Commission 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Open Meeting Law defines a meeting as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. A deliberation is “an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction.” Id. A quorum is, generally, a simple majority of the members of a public body.
See Id.
Additionally, within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, 
unless an extension has been granted, a public body must review the complaint’s allegations, 
take remedial action, if appropriate, and send the complainant a response and a description of 
any remedial action taken. See 940 CMR 29.05(5).
The complainant alleges that the Board made the decision to send the complaint to its 
attorneys for response “with no discussion and no vote,” and therefore must have engaged in 
“planning or discussion” outside of a public meeting. The Board responds that the chair, the 
Town Manager, and the Town’s attorney discussed referring the complaint to the Town’s 
attorney for a response prior to the March 19 meeting. During the March 19 open session, the 
chair announced that there was an Open Meeting Law complaint by Mr. Coulombe and that the
2

===PAGE 3===
matter had been delegated to the Town’s attorney for a response. Nothing in the regulations 
prevents a public body, once it has reviewed a complaint during a meeting, from delegating its 
response to an individual, such as town counsel. See OML 2017-148. That the Board may have 
chosen to refer the complaint for a response rather than discuss the complaint’s merits is the 
Board’s prerogative. See id. As the Town Manager and Town’s attorney are not members of the 
Board, this discussion prior to the meeting does not constitute a deliberation by a quorum of the 
Board. Therefore, we find no evidence that the Board deliberated outside a properly noticed 
public meeting. However, we remind the Board of its obligation to review Open Meeting Law 
complaints in a meeting prior to responding or delegating the response to counsel. See G.L. c.
30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).
II. The Board failed to adequately describe the purpose for the executive session.4
Before entering the executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive 
session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the 
N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm, of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the 
reason for convening in executive session is necessary... because that is the only notification 
given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the 
public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”).
One permissible reason to convene in executive session is to “discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”). The mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3. 
See OML 2014-145; OML 2012-05; OML 2011-30. Litigation must be pending or clearly and 
imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. See Perryman v. School Committee of 
Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-43. We credit the Board’s assertion that 
the litigation it sought to discuss in executive session was imminently threatened.
Nonetheless, when entering into executive session to discuss litigation matters pursuant 
to Purpose 3, a public body generally must identify the litigation matter that is the subject of the 
executive session. However, a public body need not identify the litigation matter if publicly 
disclosing it would compromise the purpose for the executive session, such as when the body is 
considering initiating litigation against another party. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(3), 21(b)(3); 
OML 2017-176; OML 2017-87; OML 2015-121; OML 2015-87. Although we generally defer 
to a public body’s assessment of whether the inclusion of such information would compromise 
the purpose for an executive session, a public body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable
4 Although the complaint asserts only that the statement made at the meeting prior to convening in executive session 
was insufficiently detailed, we note that the meeting notice, which included as a topic “Executive Session: MGL 
Chapter 30A, Section 21 (a) #3 Litigation,” also was insufficiently detailed. Executive session topics must 
be described, both in the meeting notice and in an announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. Before entering into executive 
session pursuant to Purpose 3, the public body must identify the non-union personnel with whom it will be 
negotiating or the litigation matter it will discuss, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3); OML 2017-53; OML 2016-43; OML 2016-12; OML 2013-151.
3

===PAGE 4===
basis for that claim if challenged. See OML 2017-87; OML 2012-118; OML 2012-05. The 
Board has failed to do so here.
In the present case, the litigation at issue was threatened litigation against the Town, not 
litigation that the Board was considering bringing against another party. There already were 
documents related to the potential litigation which would likely be considered public records as 
documents “made or received” by the Town. G.L. c. 4, § 7, cl. 26. Additionally, there was at 
least one news article prior to the March 19 meeting which outlined the various parties and 
several of the issues of the potential litigation. Because of the surrounding circumstances, the 
Board cannot contend that the identity or issues are confidential or must otherwise be withheld 
from the public. The executive session was permissibly called so that the Board could discuss its 
litigation strategy confidentially in response to threatened litigation, but the threat itself was not 
secret.
We therefore find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to identify 
with sufficient detail, on the meeting notice and in the statement prior to entering executive 
session, the nature of the litigation to be discussed;
III. The Board failed to conduct a roll call vote prior to entering executive session.
Finally, the complaint alleges that the Board failed to conduct a roll call vote prior to 
entering into executive session. A roll call vote is “the act or an instance of calling off a list of 
names.” Webster’s Third New International Dictionary of the English Language, 683 
(unabridged ed. 1961). The Open Meeting Law expressly requires not only that a roll call vote 
be conducted before entering executive session, but also that the roll call vote be “entered into 
the minutes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(2). These requirements are intended to create a clear record 
of what occurred and to reflect the significance of holding a discussion behind closed doors. See 
OML 2015-131; OML 2014-94; OML 2012-10.
The Board did not take a roll call vote prior to entering into executive session; instead, 
the Board conducted a voice vote, which was unanimous.5 Therefore, we find that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to conduct a roll call vote before entering into 
executive session on March 19. See G.L. c. 30A, §21 (b)(2); OML 2014-94.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to identify the litigation to be discussed in executive session and by failing to conduct a 
roll call vote prior to entering executive session. However, because we find that the Board’s 
discussion of the threatened litigation was an appropriate topic for executive session, we do not 
order any further remedial action. We remind the Board of its obligation under G.L. c. 30A, 
22(f), to periodically review its executive session meeting minutes and to publicly release the 
minutes once publication would no longer defeat the lawful purpose for the executive session. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). We also order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with
5 We note that the open session minutes indicate that a roll call vote occurred and was notated in the minutes. 
However, the video recording demonstrates that a roll call vote was not taken, and the meeting minutes are therefore 
inaccurate. We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that the Board “shall create and maintain 
accurate minutes of all meetings, including... the record of all votes.” See OML 2014-94.
4

===PAGE 5===
the Open Meeting Law, and caution the Board that a similar future violation may be considered 
evidence of an intentional violation of the law. We now consider the complaint addressed by 
this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that 
may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 
963-2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
Assisted by: Stephen Delcuze, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government
cc: Kim Mongeau
Layla G. Taylor, Esq. 
Ware Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
5
