===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 27, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 211 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Brendan L. Hughes, Esq. 
Sullivan, Hayes & Quinn, LLC  
Brendan.Hughes@sullivanandhayes.com 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Hughes: 
 
This office received a complaint from Michael Wozniak on April 24, 2023,
1 alleging that 
the South Hadley Fire District Number 1 Prudential Committee (the “Committee”), and in 
particular its chair Bruce Perron, violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Committee on March 29, and you responded on behalf of 
the Committee by letter dated April 19. The complaint alleges that during the Committee’s 
March 8 meeting the Chair “intimidated, coerced, and threatened” the Complainant causing the 
Complainant to leave the meeting.
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when 
it made its March 8 meeting inaccessible to the Complainant by asking him to leave the meeting 
and threatening to remove him. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting 
Law complaint, the Committee’s response, the request for further review, and a video recording 
of the March 8 meeting.
3 
 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The complaint also alleges that the Complainant’s rights under the First Amendment and the Massachusetts 
Declaration of Rights were violated. The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law only; we do not review allegations concerning an individual’s state or federal constitutional 
rights. 
3 The video recording of the March 8 meeting was provided to our office by counsel for the Committee . 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On March 8 the Committee held a meeting to discuss 
issues related to when and where to hold the upcoming annual election and annual meeting. The 
Town’s Moderator, Edward Wall, presented on these issues during the meeting. During the 
Moderator’s presentation, the Complainant made a brief comment trying to clarify a matter. The 
Moderator began to engage with the Complainant, but the Chair asked the Complainant not to 
interrupt the presentation. The Complainant complied with this request, and the Moderator 
suggested that there would be time for questions later in the meeting.  
 
Several minutes later, the Moderator explained that because the budget needed to be 
received a certain number of days prior to the election, the date of the election would need to be 
changed. In response, several members of the public made comments expressing their 
disapproval, including the Complainant who said, “no way” and “that’s a bunch of baloney.” In 
response, the Chair addressed the Complainant only and informed him that this was his second 
warning. The Complainant then yelled that the budget should have been completed in time. The 
Chair responded stating “one more and I’ll remove you.” The Complainant nodded his head in 
acknowledgement of what the Chair had said and was silent.  
 
After the conclusion of the Moderator’s presentation, the Moderator signaled that he was 
willing to take questions. Prior to recognizing anyone to speak, the Chair made some comments, 
including noting that he had served on a public body with the Complainant. In response to this 
statement the Complainant stated “yeah, unfortunately.” The Chair then asked the Complainant 
to repeat what he had said and the Complainant obliged. The Chair then stated that this was 
“beyond the level” that he had previously warned the Complainant about. The Complainant 
responded by telling the Chair to “get on” with the meeting and the Chair told the Complainant 
to leave the meeting. Members of the public expressed their disapproval of the Chair’s request. 
The Chair then asked the fire chief if an officer was available to escort the Complainant from the 
meeting. Members of the public expressed shock at this request. At this point, the Complainant 
left the meeting on his own, yelling, as he left, that the Committee members should be voted out.  
 
Thereafter, the Committee took questions from the public. In general, members of the 
public waited to be recognized before speaking, but occasionally members of the public 
interjected; these individuals were not warned and were not threatened with removal. Toward the 
end of the meeting one member of the public interjected and, in response to the Chair’s warnings 
and suggestion that the individual might be asked to leave as well, the individual stated that she 
would not stop speaking. Ultimately, the individual was not asked to leave or threatened with 
removal.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Except when meeting in executive session, all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public. G.L. c. 30A, §20(a). In order to be open to the 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
public, a meeting must be accessible to the public. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); OML 2014-3.4 
Access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and 
hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2017-135; OML 
2016-54. Nonetheless, the right to be present during a meeting is not absolute. The Open 
Meeting Law states that “[n]o person shall disrupt the proceedings of a meeting of a public body. 
If, after clear warning from the chair, a person continues to disrupt the proceedings, the chair 
may order the person to withdraw from the meeting and if the person does not withdraw, the 
chair may authorize a constable or other officer to remove the person from the meeting.” See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g); OML 2013-135; OML 2011-2 (“The Open Meeting Law gives clear 
authority to the chair of a public body to conduct the meeting and regulate who may speak to the 
body. If the chair determines that a member of the public is disruptive, then the chair is 
empowered to ask that person to leave or have that person removed.”).  
 
We recommend that removal of an individual from a public meeting be used only as a 
last resort when a person continues to disrupt a meeting despite directives to the contrary or in 
cases of violent, threatening, or abusive behavior. See OML 2022-197; OML 2018-77; OML 
2013-135. Furthermore, in light of the Open Meeting Law’s presumption that all meetings shall 
be open to the public, the standard for finding an individual’s conduct disruptive such that the 
person may be removed from a meeting is high. See OML 2022-143; OML 2019-123. Here, 
although the Complainant interjected at several points throughout the meeting, we find that in 
general these interjections were very brief and that the Complainant complied when instructed by 
the Chair to cease speaking. As such, we find that the Complainant’s behavior did not rise to the 
level of disrupting the meeting such that the Complainant could lawfully be removed from the 
meeting, and that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by instructing the Complainant 
to leave and threatening to have him removed. Additionally, we note concern that the 
Complainant was treated differently from other members of the public who interjected during the 
meeting, including one member who blatantly disregarded the Chair’s request to cease speaking. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it made its March 8 meeting inaccessible to the Complainant by asking him to leave and 
threatening to remove him. We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law and caution that similar violations in the future may be considered evidence 
of an intent to violate the Law. 
  
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,     
   
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
cc: Bruce Perron, Chair, South Hadley Fire District Number 1 Prudential Committee   
(via email: bperron@shdistrict1.org)  
South Hadley Town Clerk (via email: Sgmeiner@southhadleyma.gov) 
Michael Wozniak (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
