===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 11, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 218 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Douglas Heim, Esq. 
Andover Town Counsel 
douglas.heim@andoverma.us  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Heim: 
 
This office received a complaint from Steve Walther on May 23, 2023,
1 alleging that the 
Andover Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about April 24, and Assistant Town Manager 
Austin Simko responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated May 11. We understand the 
complaint to allege that the Board failed to periodically review executive session minutes to 
determine if they must be released to the public.
2  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, the request for further review, and meeting notices and minutes for meetings 
held on March 13, March 27, April 12, and April 24. We also communicated with counsel for the 
Board via email.3 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 To the extent the complaint alleges that the Board failed to post to a website those executive session minutes that 
have been released to the public, we note that the Open Meeting Law does not require that meeting minutes be 
posted to a website or elsewhere; therefore, we find no violation with respect to this  allegation. See OML 2017-160; 
OML 2016-94. However, we do encourage public bodies to post meeting minutes to a website when possible  as this 
provides the public with convenient access to minutes. Additionally, posting executive session minutes that have 
been approved for release may help avoid confusion about the Board’s periodic review of executive session minutes. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Executive session minutes may be 
withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of 
the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). When the purpose for a valid 
executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the session 
must be disclosed, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records 
Law applies. Id.  
 
A public body or its chair or designee must, at reasonable intervals, review the minutes of 
executive sessions to determine if continued nondisclosure of those minutes is warranted. G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(g)(1). Although “reasonable interval” is not defined by the law, our office has found a 
quarterly review or a review every six months to be appropriate. See OML 2019-45; OML 2017-
104; OML 2015-166; OML 2013-180.4 At the meeting following each periodic review, the 
public body must announce the results of the review. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1); OML 2019-3; 
OML 2015-94; OML 2013- 56. A public body’s obligation to review executive session minutes 
for possible release is ongoing. If a public body reviews executive session minutes and 
determines that the purpose for the executive session remains such that the minutes should 
continue to be withheld from the public, it must continue to review those same executive session 
minutes at reasonable intervals until it determines that the reason for secrecy has expired. See 
OML 2019-133. 
 
We understand the complaint to allege that, in general, the Board does not periodically 
review or release past executive session minutes.
5 We understand the basis of this complaint to 
be, at least in part, the fact that released executive session minutes are not posted to the Town’s 
website, as open session minutes are, and the Town’s response to a public records request for 
various executive session minutes.6 We note that the Open Meeting Law does not require that 
meeting minutes be posted online, and therefore the lack of posted executive session minutes 
does not mean the minutes were not reviewed or approved for public release. See OML 2022-43.  
 
In response to a request from our office for additional information, the Board explained 
that it has had a practice of periodically reviewing its executive session minutes for release to the 
public. The Board further explained that in compliance with this practice the Board reviewed 
executive session minutes for release on March 13 (announcing the result of that review on 
March 27) and again on April 12 (announcing the result of that review on April 24). A review of 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 We note that Complainants must allege violations with a degree of specificity, as our office will not conduct broad 
audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations. See OML 2022-43; OML 2021- 133; OML 2019-44; OML 
Declination 3-20-12 (Wilmington Board of Assessors). 
6 Requests for meeting minutes may fall under the Public Records Law or the Open Meeting Law, depending on 
how the request is made, and the requirements for responding differ. A request for minutes that is directed to a clerk 
or other municipal employees as Records Access Officer will likely fall under the Public Records Law and requires 
a response in 10 business days. See G.L. c. 66, § 10; OML 2019-126; OML 2019-68. A request for meeting minutes 
made under the Open Meeting Law must be made to the public body and requires a response within 10 calendar 
days. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2); OML 2019-125. The Division of Open Government reviews for compliance with 
the Open Meeting Law; concerns about compliance with the Public Records Law should be directed to the Public 
Records Division in the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s Office. 
===PAGE 3===
the meeting notices and minutes for the above meetings confirms the Board's assertion.
Therefore, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged.
Although we do not find a violation here, we note that the notices for the meetings during
which the results of the periodic reviews were announced did not include this as a topic. In order
to provide as much notice as possible to the public, the Board could include on its meeting
notices a topic advising that the Board will make an announcement concerning its review and
release of executive session minutes.
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Flag
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Andover Select Board (via email: SelectBoard@andoverma.us)
Austin Simko, Deputy Town Manager/Town Clerk
(via email: austin.simko@andoverma.us)
Steve Walther (via email
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.