===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 17, 2024  
  
OML 2024 – 66 
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
Ezra Dunkle-Polier, Esq. 
Anderson Kreiger LLP 
50 Milk Street, 21
st Floor 
Boston, MA 02109  
 
ezra@andersonkreiger.com 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints  
 
Dear Attorney Dunkle-Polier:  
 
This office received two complaints from Geoffrey Beach on January 25, 2024, alleging 
that the Acton Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.  The complaints originally were filed with the Board on November 27 and December 7.1  
On behalf of the Board, you responded to both complaints by letter dated December 21.  The 
complaints allege that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it approved insufficiently 
detailed minutes.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
approving insufficiently detailed minutes but that the Board took corrective action by approving 
revised meeting minutes prior to the complainant filing the complaints with our office for 
review.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s 
response to the complaints, and the complainant’s request for further review.  In addition, we 
reviewed the original and revised minutes of the meetings held on July 19, 2022 (the “July 
Meeting”) and September 19, 2023 (the “September Meeting”).  We also viewed recordings of 
both meetings.
2   
  
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2023.   
2 The meetings of July 19, 2022, and September 19, 2023 can be accessed at 
https://link.edgepilot.com/s/45b95ed9/YIwUC4wFZEelSSeT7Ba3sw?u=https://actonma.zoom.us/rec/share/uiYV5F
mzAk75LISIvPzsUgwAq7bGVOs96_RsQa6KfQb1rO0Jz5uiCgyWvR2Qbpfr.1Q9qEs6ynjUS3ew3  and 
https://link.edgepilot.com/s/90b8b3af/bbUto0AhQUSrUyVO8tQaAw?u=https://actonma.zoom.us/rec/share/AzvH9J
yW8jest1iB_iJm5MVMpY-0SWt5Yh3Qs0muaPxUHF0zxfTpcXuZlkfG6viw.5itE9OSL98r -oO77, respectively. 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
 A topic of discussion at both t he July Meeting and the September Meeting was the 
Bumble Bee Way subdivision being developed by Seal Harbor Development (“Seal Harbor”).  
During the July Meeting, the Board discussed litigation Seal Harbor brought against Geoffrey 
Beach and Kristyna Beach.  The principal of Seal Harbor, Mark Gallagher, as well as its counsel, 
attended the July Meeting.  Mr. Gallagher explained that the lawsuit concerned access to the 
property being developed without a definitive easement or permission from owners.  During the 
public comment period, Planning Director Kristen Guichard answered a question from a member 
of the public regarding the Board’s policy of performing an “as built” walk-through to confirm 
that a developer has constructed roadways and drainage in accordance with plans.   
 
 The September meeting lasted over four hours.  Mik e Carter, an outside engineer retained 
by the Board, presented his report regarding his walk through of the Bumble Bee Way 
subdivision.  Geoffrey Beach attended the meeting.  He noted that the prior construction deadline 
had passed on January 1.  He asked why the Board imposed a construction deadline when the 
bond can be pulled at any time.  Planning Director Kristen Guichard attempted to answer his 
question but on at least one occasion expressed uncertainty about what Mr. Beach was asking. 
Minutes of the September meeting memorialize this exchange as follows: “Geoff Beach asked 
for clarification on the construction deadline and terms of the bond. Planning Director, Kristen 
Guichard explained the process.”
3      
 
DISCUSSION 
 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies 
“create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth 
the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each 
subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the 
actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); 940 CMR 
29.11(1).  Although minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript 
is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented.  See 
OML 2023-35; OML 2019-81; OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55.4  When reviewing minutes for 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy 
requirement.  For substantial compliance, the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy 
so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred.  See OML 2023-35; OML 2021-140.  
 
 In his complaints, Mr. Beach alleged that  the minutes of both the July Meeting and the 
September Meeting were insufficiently detailed.  Upon receipt of the complaints, the Board 
acknowledged that the minutes were insufficiently detailed and prepared and approved revised 
 
3 In the original minutes, the complainant’s first name was misspelled “Jeff.”  This was corrected in the revised 
minutes. 
4 Previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-m eeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
minutes, adding further detail to both.5  Revised minutes include reference and a link to Mr. 
Carter’s report as well as further information regarding Seal Harbor’s lawsuit and access to the 
property.  Despite these revisions, Mr. Beach complains that the revised minutes still are not 
sufficiently detailed.  
 
 As an initial matter, we note that the complainant’s request for review is unnecessarily 
long, hampering review of the parties’ positions. Instructions attached to the complaint form 
note: “You may wish to attach a cover letter explaining why the public body's response does not 
adequately address your complaint.”  The instructions do not contemplate a 10-page single-
spaced letter, with enclosures which bring the size of the filing to 98 pages.  Moreover, the 
complainant’s recapitulation and expansion of arguments made in the complaint obscure the 
discrete shortcomings that he alleges the Board did not cure in its revised minutes.  We 
understand from the complainant’s request for review that he remains unsatisfied with the 
minutes because those of the July Meeting do not provide sufficient detail regarding the “as 
built” review process, and those of the September Meeting mischaracterize his question 
regarding the construction deadline and the bond.   
 
 We find the revised minutes of the July Meeting and September Meeting sufficiently 
det
ailed.  The Planning Director provided only a brief explanation of the “as built” inspection 
program in response to a question during public comment at the July Meeting.  The omission of 
that exchange does not run afoul of the Open Meeting Law, as the minutes do not need to include 
every remark made during the meeting.  Similarly, the September Meeting minutes adequately 
summarize the exchange between the Director and complainant regarding the bond and 
construction deadline.  There appeared to be a communication gap when the Director attempted 
to respond to the complainant at the September meeting.  It is not surprising, then, that Mr. 
Beach would find fault with how his question was paraphrased in the minutes.  However, upon 
listening to the exchange on the recording, we find the summary in compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law.  We have not required the level of detail and precision that the complainant 
seeks.  See, e.g., OML 2023-143 (finding minutes sufficiently detailed and accurate even though, 
according to complainant, wording in minutes painted a skewed picture of a contentious 
exchange); OML 2019-136 (finding that minutes substantially complied with the Law’s accuracy 
requirement when member of the public spoke during a public comment period and the minutes 
captured some of the complainant's comments but, according to the complainant, failed to 
capture at least ten points the complainant included in her remarks); OML 2016-40. 
 
 The complainant urges us to find that the Board’s violations were intentional.  See G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(c).  Indeed, in his request for review of the complaint, Mr. Beach maintains that “[i]t 
is the intent that forms the core of this appeal.”  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by 
 
5 In its response, the Board also maintains that the complaint concerning the September 19 meeting was untimel y 
because the complainant learned of the alleged violation on October 27, and the complaint was emailed to the Board 
on Sunday, November 26, but not received by the Board until it opened for business on Monday, November 27.  The 
complainant appears to acknowledge that the filing date was November 27, the first business day after he emailed 
the complaint on Sunday, November 26.  However, the complainant questions whether the minutes were in fact 
posted on October 27.  We do not resolve the issue of timeliness, where the Board has acknowledged deficiencies in 
the minutes and has taken corrective action by approving revised minutes.  
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 
CMR 29.02.  A
n intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate 
ignorance of the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates 
the Open Meeting Law.  Id.  The insufficiency of the minutes, acknowledged and corrected by 
the Board, was not intentional.  Moreover, the Board was not previously warned that its actions 
ran afoul of the Open Meeting Law.  Therefore, we decline to find an intentional violation. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
approving insufficiently detailed minutes.  We order immediate and future compliance with the 
law’s requirements and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law. We find that the Board took corrective action by approving revised 
meeting minutes before these complaints were filed with our office.   
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617)963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincer
ely,  
   
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Geoffrey Beach (via email: ) 
Nina Pickering-Cook, Esq. (via email: npickeringcook@andersonkreiger.com)   
Acton Town Manager (via email: jmangiaratti@acton-ma.gov ) 
Chair, Acton Planning Board (via email: joncappetta@acton-ma.gov) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
  
 
