===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
September 14, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 126 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Hadley Select Board  
Chair David Fill  
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chairman Fill: 
This office received a complaint from John Allen on July 8, 2021, alleging that the 
Hadley Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 26 and the Town Administrator responded 
on behalf of the Board by letter dated June 23.1 In his complaint, Mr. Allen alleges that the 
notice for the Board’s May 12 meeting included a topic which was not sufficiently detailed. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, a video of the May 12 meeting,2 and the complainant’s request for further review. We 
also reviewed a copy of the May 10 Hadley Town Covid-19 Vaccine Policy.  
FACTS 
 On May 10, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on May 12. The notice 
included 11 main topic headings, many of which listed more detailed topics underneath. Under 
the heading “6. New Business,” the notice included the topic “6.2 Covid 19 Update.” This topic 
did not include any additional detail or description, in contrast to other topics on the notice. For 
example, item “6.1 Community Electricity Aggregation Program” included beneath it the 
description “John O’Rourke from Good Energy will present the Community Electrical 
Aggregation Renewal Electric Service Agreement for Town of Hadley. The Select Board will 
vote to designate Carolyn Brennan as the Bid Day Representative for the town.”   
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 The video of the May 12 meeting is available online at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lG4KuWiEs8A. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The meeting was held as planned. During the “Covid 19 Update” portion of the meeting, 
the Board discussed a proposed vaccine policy which contained four key provisions: (1) the 
Town would not deny members of the public access to Town property, meetings or events based 
upon vaccine status and would not request medical documentation of vaccine status, unless 
otherwise required by law; (2) the town would not require Town employees to be vaccinated; (3) 
vaccination status would not have any impact on the ability of an individual to hold an elected or 
appointed position in Town; and (4) the Town would not maintain copies of medical records 
such as vaccination records, unless otherwise required by law.  
The Board engaged in a 20-minute discussion on topics related to Covid-19 including an 
update on new positive Covid-19 cases in Hadley as well as the vaccine policy. While discussing 
the vaccine policy, the Board discussed 1) the merits of mandatory vaccination for participation 
in Senior Center recreational programming; 2) the possibility that requiring Covid-19 vaccines 
would lead to requiring other subsequent vaccines in the future; 3) the Board’s role in setting 
health policy and the deference owed to the Board of Health, state and federal guidelines; 4) the 
“emergency authorization” status of currently available Covid-19 vaccines; 5) the prevalence of 
asymptomatic spread; 6) medical autonomy and seeking to avoid implementing a potentially 
discriminatory policy; and 7) privacy and HIPAA regulations. The Board subsequentially voted 
to approve the policy as written.  
DISCUSSION 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must be 
printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time, and place of 
the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The list of topics shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider 
a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic 
and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35.3 
Though the Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to list all tangential topics 
related to a discussion, it requires public bodies to identify the discussion topic with sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2020-156; OML 2015-73; OML 2014-127; OML 
2014-58; OML 2014-38. Generally, “generic item[s] will typically fail to meet the specificity 
standards of the Open Meeting Law.” See OML 2019-92.  
 Mr. Allen alleges that the notice topic “Covid-19 Update” was not sufficiently specific to 
reasonably advise the public of the topics to be discussed at the meeting. We agree. The generic 
item, “Covid-19 Update,” does not provide any detail about the nature of the anticipated 
discussions. See OML 2013-164. For example, it does not inform the public whether the Board 
would be discussing updated infection data, plans for holding a vaccination clinic, changes to 
policies regarding access to municipal buildings and services, or any of the other myriad matters 
related to Covid-19 that might be of varying degrees of interest to members of the public. We 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
have previously stated that the Open Meeting Law requires that a meeting notice lists topics with 
sufficient specificity so that the public can make an informed decision whether to attend the 
meeting in order to observe the discussion regarding a topic of interest. See OML 2019-95; OML 
2018-22; OML 2015-74. The generic topic “Covid-19 Update” did not sufficiently advise the 
public of the specific topics to be discussed at the meeting. 
We strongly disagree with the Board’s assertion that the use of “Covid-19 Update” as an 
agenda topic was justified because the Board had listed that topic for more than a year on prior 
meeting notices to cover “anything related to Covid-19 policy, response or information sharing.” 
The fact that the Board had posted prior meeting notices that also were likely insufficiently 
specific, without a formal complaint being filed, does not justify the action. Rather, the Board’s 
use of the same topic for such a long period, covering such a range of subtopics, indicates how 
non-specific the “Covid-19 Update” item was. In the course of a pandemic that, as of the date of 
the meeting at issue, had lasted more than a year and impacted nearly every aspect of life, a 
general topic such as “Covid-19 Update” is far too broad to meet the Open Meeting Law’s 
specificity requirement. Therefore, we find that the topic “Covid-19 Update” on the notice for 
the Board’s May 12 meeting was not sufficiently specific. 
Finally, in its response, the Board indicates that the vaccine policy that was going to be 
discussed was included in the meeting packet that was posted in advance of the meeting, thus 
implying that the complainant had advance notice of it. However, a meeting notice on its own 
must contain all the required information with the required degree of specificity; it does not 
suffice that required information is posted elsewhere. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2020-21. 
We also note that the Board’s notice did not indicate that the policy to be discussed could be 
found in the meeting packet.  
Although our office does not dictate any particular language that the Board must include 
on its meeting notices in order for the list of topics to be sufficiently specific in compliance with 
the Open Meeting Law, we note as guidance for the Board that a topic such as “Town Covid-19 
Vaccine Policy” would be sufficient. 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing and taking action on a topic that was not included with sufficient specificity on the 
Board’s meeting notice. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law and caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar violation in 
the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 Additionally, to remedy the lack of notice to the public, we order the Board, within 30 
days of receipt of this determination, to again hold a discussion of the same topics the Board 
discussed under “Covid-19 Update” during the May 12 meeting, including re-voting any votes 
taken, at a properly posted future meeting. 
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
Assisted by Alexis Kenney, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: John Allen (via e-mail  
 Town Administrator Carolyn Brennan (via e-mail:  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
