===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
June 29, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 126 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Mark Reich, Esq.  
K.P. Law, P.C.  
mreich@k-plaw.com 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Reich: 
This office received a complaint from Jesse Weigand on February 22, 2022, alleging that 
the Heath Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on January 18, 2022, and you responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated February 4, 2022. In his complaint, Mr. Weigand alleges that 
the Board met in executive session on December 21 without a proper purpose, and failed to 
follow certain procedural requirements when entering the same executive session.1, 2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response 
to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We reviewed the notice and 
open session minutes of the Board’s December 21 meeting. We reviewed copies of the Board’s 
executive session minutes for the December 21 meeting, which have not been released to the 
public. We also reviewed an audio recording of the open session and executive sessions of the 
Board’s December 21, which was provided by the complainant. Finally, we corresponded with 
you and Mr. Weigand via email in April of 2022.  
DISCUSSION 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 Mr. Weigand alleged in a subsequent email communication to our office that the Board should not have discussed 
his complaint during executive session. As this allegation was not made in the original complaint, we decline to 
review it. See OML Declination 4-22-15; OML Declination 8-25-2015; OML 2013-118; OML 2013-60. However, 
we note that a public body may meet in executive session under Purpose 1 to discuss an Open Meeting Law 
complaint. See OML 2014-135.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
1. The Board’s second executive session on December 21, 2021, was convened for a 
permissible purpose.  
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Except when meeting in executive session, all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). A public body may enter 
executive session for any one or more of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One permissible reason to hold an executive session is “[t]o discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares” (“Purpose 3”). G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). The exceptions to the general rule that meetings 
of a public body shall be open are narrowly construed, and a public body’s discussions with its 
counsel do not automatically fall under Purpose 3 or any other executive session purpose. See 
McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637, 641 (2008); Plymouth Dist. Atty v. Bd. Of 
Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629 (1985); OML 2012-55; OML 2014-42.3 
  The litigation prong of Purpose 3 offers a public body the narrow opportunity to discuss 
strategy with respect to litigation where the public body has a litigating position to protect. See 
OML 2021-56; OML 2012-55; OML 2018-110; OML 2011-47. Under Purpose 3, a public body 
has a litigating position to protect if there is pending litigation in which the public body has a 
litigating position, or if litigation is clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably 
likely; the mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3. See Doherty v. 
School Committee of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Perryman v. School Committee of 
Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-5.  
 Here, the notice for the Board’s December 21 meeting included two executive session 
items. The first item related to a lease agreement, and is not challenged in this complaint and is 
not addressed herein. The second item is relevant to this complaint, “Executive Session pursuant 
to G.L. c. 30A, sec. 21(a)(3), To discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or 
litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating 
position of the public body and the chair so declares.  For deliberation and strategy in New 
Cingular Wireless PCS, LLC d/b/a AT&T Mobility v. Town of Heath, Town of Heath Planning 
Board.”  
 Although the recording of the executive sessions was inadvertently and temporarily 
posted on the Town’s website in error, as the Board has not released the executive session 
minutes of the December 21 meeting, , we do not discuss the contents of the Board’s discussion 
in detail. However, we note that, under the second executive session item, the Board discussed a 
waiver of conflict-of-interest letter related to the litigation listed on the meeting notice. We are 
satisfied that the Board’s discussions were limited to strategy with respect to pending litigation. 
Therefore, we find that the Board permissibly entered executive session under Purpose 3 to 
discuss litigation under the second executive session item during the December 21 meeting.  
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
2. The Board announced the purpose for the second executive session on December 21, 
2021, with sufficient specificity.  
 The complainant alleges that the Board failed to accurately state the purpose for the 
December 21 executive session, failed to state all subjects that could be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for the executive session, and failed to publicly announce whether the 
open session would reconvene at the end of the executive session. We disagree. Before entering 
executive session, the chair of a public body must announce in open session the purpose for 
entering executive session, “stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District 
Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only 
notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only 
way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”). 
 The complaint alleges that the Board described the second executive session item with 
insufficient specificity. The notice stated, “Executive Session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, sec. 
21(a)(3), To discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting 
may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the 
chair so declares.  For deliberation and strategy in New Cingular Wireless PCS, LLC d/b/a 
AT&T Mobility v. Town of Heath, Town of Heath Planning Board.” As an initial matter, we find 
that this description of the executive session on the meeting notice sufficiently described the 
topic to be discussed. See OML 2020-47 (noting that, in general, when discussing litigation  
strategy under Purpose 3, the litigation matter must be identified in both the meeting notice and 
in the chair’s statement before entering executive session). 
 Next, we must consider whether the Board member chairing the December 21 meeting in 
the absence of the Chair similarly described the second executive session with sufficient 
specificity and stated that the Board would not return to open session after the second executive 
session. The recording of the Board’s meeting indicates that the member chairing the meeting 
made both announcements, reading the meeting notice item related to the second executive 
session and announcing that the Board would not return to open session after the second 
executive session. 4 We therefore find that the Board announced the purpose for the second 
executive session on December 21 with sufficient specificity. Therefore, the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
4 Although not raised in the complaint, we note our concern that when the Board reconvened in open session 
following the first executive session the members of the public who had been directed to leave the Zoom me eting 
during the executive session may not have realized that the meeting had resumed in open session. If the Board 
returns to open session after an executive session in Zoom, it must ensure that members of the public are able to 
view the open session. Use of a Zoom waiting room may be suitable to remove and readmit the public as needed. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Jesse Weigand (via e-mail:  
 Heath Select Board (via e-mail: bos@townofheath.org) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
