===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
November 6, 2019
OML 2019-144
Michael Goldsmith, Esq.
Reynolds, Rappaport, Kaplan & Hackney, LLC 
P.O. Box 2540 
Edgartown, MA 02539
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Goldsmith:
This office received three complaints from Catherine Clairmont1 alleging that the 
Edgartown Wastewater Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. All three complaints allege that the Commission deliberated outside of 
properly posted meetings, and so we address all three complaints together in this determination. 
The first complaint was filed with the Commission on or about December 26, 2018, and alleges 
that a quorum of the Commission deliberated outside of a posted meeting through email. You 
responded by letter dated January 15, 2019, and the complaint was filed with our office on 
January 28, 2019. The second complaint was filed with the Commission on or about December 
28, 2018, and alleges that (i) a quorum of the Commission deliberated outside of posted 
meetings, generally, and (ii) the Commission has failed to completely respond to a public records 
request. You responded by letter dated January 18, 2019, and the complaint was filed with our 
office January 28, 2019. The third complaint was filed with the Commission on or about March 
13, 2019, and alleges that the Commission deliberated outside of a properly noticed meeting to 
agree on changes to the Complainant’s sewer permit.2 You responded by letter dated March 28, 
2019, and the complaint was filed with our office on April 12, 2019.
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters. Following our 
review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a
1 Catherine Clairmont and Patrick Kager have filed several related complaints against the Commission. This 
determination addresses three of the complaints; the remainder will be addressed separately.
2 Our role in reviewing these Open Meeting Law complaints is not to determine whether any permit issued by the 
Commission has been changed or revoked or whether doing so is permissible. Our role is only to determine whether 
the Open Meeting Law has been violated.
1

===PAGE 2===
posted meeting on November 18, 2018, through the use of email. For the reasons explained 
below, we do not find that the Commission violated the Law in the other ways alleged. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Commission’s responses, 
the Complainant’s requests for further review, relevant email exchanges and communications, 
and notice for the Commission’s March 12, 2019, meeting as well as a recording of that same 
meeting. We also communicated with Counsel3 by phone and email and with the Complainant by 
phone.
FACTS
These complaints, and a series of other related Open Meeting Law complaints, relate to 
the Complainant and her husband, Patrick Kager’s, efforts to obtain a permit from the 
Commission to install a sewer line for their properties on Duarte Circle in Edgartown (the 
“Sewer Project”).
As to the specific complaints addressed in this determination, we find the facts as 
follows.
The First Complaint
The Commission is a three-member commission; thus, two members constitutes a 
quorum of the Commission. On November 16,4 the Complainant’s attorney, Jane DePalma, sent 
an email to all three commissioners, Sean Murphy, Glen Searle, and Scott Ellis, requesting that 
the Commission reschedule its planned discussion of the Sewer Project from November 29 to a 
later date so that Attorney DePalma could attend the Commission’s meeting with her clients. 
Also included on this email were the Complainant, Mr. Kager, and the Town Administrator, 
James Hagerty.
On November 17, Commissioner Murphy responded to Attorney DePalma’s email, 
copying all of the above-mentioned recipients. In his email, Commissioner Murphy wrote that 
“since [the Complainant and Mr. Kager’s] neighbors ... have raised concerns with the way in 
which your clients have chosen to sell off the wastewater connection our job [on the 
Commission] has been anything but uneventful.” He further stated that the Complainant and Mr. 
Kager had been harassing town employees. Commissioner Murphy concluded his email stating:
... I for one have zero desire to grant your clients any courtesies as they have shown 
no courtesy to anyone in the town. However, as a courtesy to you, if your clients 
agree to cease and desist from their daily barrage of emails, phone calls and 
meetings regarding this matter I would agree to vote at our next meeting to continue 
the matter to a convenient date for you.
On November 18, Chairman Searle responded to Commissioner Murphy’s November 17 
email stating “[w]ell said and I think we should keep the Nov 29th meeting as scheduled.” This 
email was sent only to Commissioner Murphy.
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person going forward.
4 All dates from this point forward are in 2018 unless stated otherwise.
2

===PAGE 3===
On November 19, Attorney DePalma replied to Commissioner Murphy’s email, copying 
all of the earlier recipients. In her email, Attorney DePalma asked that Commissioner Murphy 
inform her whether the other Commissioners’ were in agreement about continuing the Sewer 
Project discussion to a later date.
On December 21, in response to a public records request, the Complainant received a 
copy of the November 18 email from Chairman Searle to Commissioner Murphy.
The Second Complaint
On November 13, David Thompson, Facilities Manager for the Town of Edgartown, sent 
the Complainant and Mr. Kager an email stating, in part, that “[t]he Department and Commission 
have requested no further action on this extension until they meet on Nov. 29th. ... I regard the 
attempt to install the line and present it as a fait accompli to the Commission as counter to the 
Commission’s request, a request you were informed of, but have consistently ignored. Do not 
contact us yourselves, or through proxies, until the meeting.”
Chairman Searle and the Facilities Manager exchanged two short emails regarding the 
above email.
Mr. Kager responded to the Facilities Manager’s email, copying all three Commissioners 
and the Complainant.
The Facilities Manager forwarded Mr. Kager’s email to all three Commissioners letting 
them know that he (the Facilities Manager) was going on vacation. In the email, the Facilities 
Manager stated, in part, that the Complainant and Mr. Kager “have signed sewer lateral 
connection permits as they submitted all the docs. We did not deposit their check however in 
light of the ruling to wait until 29th.”
A few minutes later, Chairman Searle responded to the Facilities Manager’s email, 
copying the other two Commissioners, wishing the Facilities Manager a happy vacation and 
thanking him for the update.
The Facilities Manager also responded to Mr. Kager, stating “Not a ‘Request’. Do 
nothing until the Commission rules. DT."
Mr. Kager sent another email to the Facilities Manager stating that the Facilities 
Manager’s response had not answered the question Mr. Kager presented in his earlier email. Mr. 
Kager again copied the Complainant and all three Commissioners and also included Pia Webster, 
the Wastewater Department’s Administrative Assistant.
Thereafter, Commissioner Murphy emailed the Facilities Manager stating “[y]ou are on 
vacation and you do not have a duty to respond to them.” No one else was copied on this email.
Later that evening, Chairman Searle sent an email to Mr. Kager asking him not to contact 
the Commission or its employees, stating that they would vote on the Sewer Project on 
November 29 and stating that he would stop the project should Mr. Kager and the Complainant 
start work before the November 29 meeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
On November 21, Attorney DePalma sent an email following up on her earlier request 
that the Commission provide her with the conditions of the original Sewer Project permit.
That same day, the Town Administrator responded to Attorney DePalma’s email. All 
three Commissioners, the Complainant, and Mr. Kager were copied on this email.
On December 21, in response to a public records request, the Complainant received a 
copy of the email exchanges discussed above.
The Third Complaint
On or about February 21, 2019, the Commission issued a Decision Under Article X of the 
Sewer Rules and Regulations (the “February 21 Decision”) pertaining to the Sewer Project. In an 
email exchange dated February 26 and 27, 2019, Mr. Kager notified the Facilities Manager and 
the Commission that it was his understanding that most of the conditions of the February 21 
Decision could not be met until after construction of the Sewer Project began or was complete 
and that, therefore, he and the Complainant would begin construction in March of 2019 as they 
had previously planned. In response to this email, Commissioner Murphy contacted Counsel for 
guidance. Counsel consulted with Commissioner Murphy and with the Town Administrator 
through phone calls and emails and drafted an amended decision (the “Amended Decision”). On 
March 12, 2019, the Commission held a special meeting to “Review/Discuss/Vote: Amended 
Decision Under Article X of the Sewer Rules & Regulations Re: Proposed Sewer Extensions for 
Duarte Circle, Edgartown, Mass.” The day of the meeting, the Facilities Manager distributed the 
Amended Decision to the full Commission. At the meeting, the Commission discussed the 
Amended Decision and voted to accept the changes it proposed.
DISCUSSION
F, The First Complaint is Timely as to the Allegations of Improper Deliberation
Through the November 18 Email. Only.
To be considered timely, a written Open Meeting Law complaint setting forth the 
circumstances which constitute the alleged violation must, among other things, be filed with the 
public body within 30 days of the date of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). “[I]f the 
alleged violation . .. could not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then [the 
complaint must be filed] within 30 days of the date [the violation] should reasonably have been 
discovered.” 940 CMR 29.05(4).
The Complainant provided several emails in support of the allegation that the 
Commission deliberated outside of properly posted meetings. To the extent that the Complainant 
was a recipient on these emails, she had notice of any potential violations on the day the emails 
were sent. These emails include the exchange regarding Attorney DePalma’s request to 
reschedule the November 29 meeting, including Commissioner Murphy’s email expressing his 
views of the Complainant and Mr. Kager. Because the Complainant was aware of these emails 
on November 16, 17, and 19, 2018, her December 26, 2018, complaint alleging that the emails 
constituted improper deliberation outside of a posted meeting is untimely.
With regard to the November 18 email from Chairman Searle to Commissioner Murphy, 
we find that the December 26 complaint is timely because the Complainant could not have
4

===PAGE 5===
known about this email exchange until the Commission provided it to the Complainant in 
response to her public records request.5
A The November 18 Email from Chairman Searle to Commissioner Murphy Constituted
Deliberation Outside of a Posted Meeting, in Violation of the Open Meeting Law.
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)- 
(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. The law defines “deliberation” as 
“an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, 
however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling 
information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or 
documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed.” Id. A one-way communication from one public body member to a quorum on 
business within a body's jurisdiction is deliberation, even if no other members respond. See 
OML 2015-3 3.6 For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is “a simple majority of the 
members of the public body.” Id.
If reviewed in isolation, the November 18 email from Chairman Searle to Commissioner 
Murphy stating “[w]ell said and I think we should keep the Nov 29th meeting as scheduled” 
could be viewed as scheduling information and therefore not a deliberation. However, we find it 
necessary to review the email in its complete context. We find that Chairman Searle’s November 
18 email to Commissioner Murphy expressing his agreement with Commissioner Murphy’s 
earlier emailed opinions was not merely about scheduling, but rather was an expression of 
agreement with Commissioner Murphy’s opinions regarding the Complainant’s harassing 
behavior and lack of courtesy. See OML 2012-67. As such, Chairman Searle’s November 18 
email was a deliberation in violation of the Open Meeting Law.
3. We Decline to Review the December 28. 2018. Complaint Because it was not Timely
Filed.
As noted above, to be considered timely, a written Open Meeting Law complaint setting 
forth the circumstances which constitute the alleged violation must, among other things, be filed 
with the public body within 30 days of the date of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). 
“[I]f the alleged violation .. . could not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then
5 Some emails sent to Mr. Kager do not appear to have included the Complainant. These include an email from Mr. 
Thompson stating “Not a ‘Request’. Do nothing until the Commission rules. DT” and an email from Chairman 
Searle telling Mr. Kager not to contact the Department or Commission. Even if we presume that the Complainant 
was unaware of these emails until the December 21 response to her public records request, they do not violate the 
Open Meeting Law because they were not communications between or among a quorum of the Commission. 
Furthermore, we find that these emails do not add any additional evidence of deliberation outside of a posted 
meeting in general. We therefore do not address them further.
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
5

===PAGE 6===
[the complaint must be filed] within 30 days of the date [the violation] should reasonably have 
been discovered.” 940 CMR 29.05(4).
The December 28 complaint points to three specific emails as evidence of deliberation 
outside of a posted meeting. The emails in question were sent between Chairman Searle, the 
Facilities Manager, the Town Administrator, the Complainant, Mr. Kager, and the Complainant’s 
attorney, and, according to the complaint, communicated various “directives” and “actions” from 
the Commissioners regarding the Sewer Project. In her request for further review, the 
Complainant cites to a series of additional emails sent on October 22 as further evidence that 
deliberations took place outside of properly noticed meetings. As described, each of these emails 
was sent to the Complainant and Mr. Kager directly. Finally, the Complainant alleges that the 
Commission has not fully responded to her public records requests for all communications 
between the Commissioners and between the Commissioners and staff. The Complainant alleges 
that these emails and the Commission’s failure to fully respond to her public records request 
show that the Commission must have deliberated outside of properly noticed meetings in order to 
agree on the directives and actions and to provide instructions about the directives and actions to 
staff.
The Commission responds that the Commissioners did not deliberate outside of a posted 
meeting regarding the Sewer Project and that the directives and actions the Complainant refers to 
stem from the decision of the Commission, made at its October 18 meeting, that the Sewer 
Project should not move forward until after the Commission’s November 29 meeting. The 
Commission further states that the directives and actions were communicated to the Complainant 
and Mr. Kager because the Facilities Manager had reason to believe that the Complainant and 
Mr. Kager intended to begin construction on the Sewer Project before the November 29 meeting. 
The Facilities Manager, as an employee of the Wastewater Department, interpreted and 
communicated the decisions made by the Commission at its October 18 meeting.7
In response to requests from this office, the Commission has provided a small number of 
emails and text messages in addition to those that were attached to the complaint. We do not find 
that these additional communications constitute deliberation, but rather relate to the scheduling 
of meetings and similar administrative tasks that the Open Meeting Law excludes from the 
definition of “deliberation.” Regarding the emails the Complainant included with her complaint 
and request for further review, we find that the Complainant received these emails more than 30 
days before she filed the Open Meeting Law complaint on December 28. Therefore, we find the 
December 28 complaint was not timely filed, and we decline to review the allegations raised.
4. The Commission Did Not Deliberate Outside of a Meeting Before its March 12, 2019
Meeting.
In her complaint dated March 13, 2019, the Complainant alleges that the Commission 
deliberated outside of a properly noticed meeting because at its March 12, 2019, meeting, the 
Commission voted to accept the Amended Decision immediately and without discussion. The 
complaint states that “[i]t was as though the amendment had been previously written and agreed
7 We do not review whether the Facilities Manager had the authority to interpret and communicate the directives and 
actions as that issue is not within the scope of the Open Meeting Law.
6

===PAGE 7===
prior to the meeting.” The complaint also asserts that a “‘Decision’ document was created . . . 
before the meeting took place.”
The Commission denies that deliberation regarding the Amended Decision took place 
prior to the March 12, 2019, meeting. Instead, it explains that, in response to the February 27 
emails from Mr. Kager, Counsel drafted the Amended Decision after consulting with 
Commissioner Murphy and the Town Administrator. The Facilities Manager then distributed the 
Amended Decision to the Commissioners on March 12, 2019. After listening to the recording of 
the March 12, 2019, meeting, we also find that, although the Commission quickly voted to 
accept the Amended Decision, it did subsequently discuss the changes and then hold another 
vote to accept the Amended Decision. After discussion with the Complainant, we do not find 
sufficient evidence that the Commission deliberated outside of its March 12 meeting regarding 
the Amended Decision. Absent sufficient evidence to support the complaint’s allegations, we 
credit the Commission’s account of the facts. See OML 2014-122; OML 2013-133; OML 2015- 
8. Moreover, we have stated in prior determinations that agreement among public body members 
is insufficient to support the inference that those members deliberated outside of a noticed 
meeting. See OML 2017-168; OML 2019-113. Accordingly, we decline to find that the 
Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a noticed meeting.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating via email on November 18, 2018. We decline to find that the Commission violated 
the Law in the other ways alleged. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, and caution that similar violations in the future may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the Law. 940 CMR 29.02.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions.
Sincerely,
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Catherine Clairmont
Patrick Kager
Edgartown Wastewater Commission
7

===PAGE 8===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
8
