===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 5, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 168 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Robert W. Galvin, Esq. 
Galvin & Galvin, PC 
rwgalvin@galvin-legal.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Galvin: 
 
This office received two complaints on March 13 and 14, 2024,
1 from Attorney Ivria 
Glass Fried, on behalf of her clients Priya Tahiliani and Kim Tsai, alleging that the Everett 
School Committee (the “Committee”) and its Superintendent Search Committee (the “Search 
Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were 
originally filed with the Committee on or about February 7, and you responded on behalf of the 
Committee by letters dated February 28.  
 
The first complaint alleges that the Committee 1) failed to identify the bargaining unit or 
litigation matters to be discussed in executive session on January 11 and 18; 2) failed to take a 
roll call vote prior to convening in executive session on January 11; 3) failed to timely approve 
two sets of meeting minutes; 4) failed to timely respond to a request for meeting minutes; 5) 
failed to timely review executive session minutes in general and in response to a request for such 
minutes; and 6) failed to timely respond to Open Meeting Law complaints.  
 
The second complaint alleges that the Search Committee 1) failed to timely approve 
several sets of meeting minutes; 2) failed to timely respond to the same request for minutes 
referenced above; 3) failed to timely review executive session minutes in response to that 
request; and 4) failed to timely respond to Open Meeting Law complaints.
2 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2024 unless otherwise stated. 
2 The second complaint also alleges that the Search Committee failed to perform the necessary steps prior to 
convening in executive session but acknowledges that this allegation is untimely.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee and the Search Committee violated the 
Open Meeting Law in most of the ways alleged, as discussed further below. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the Committee’s responses, the 
requests for further review, and video recordings of the Committee’s January 11 and 18 open 
session meetings.3 We also reviewed, in camera, the minutes for the Committee’s January 11 
and 18 executive sessions. Additionally, we communicated with Attorney Galvin4 by email and 
telephone. Finally, we reviewed meeting notices posted to the City of Everett’s website and 
materials for the Committee’s January 18 meeting posted to the Everett Public Schools’ 
website.5  
 
I. The Notices and Announcements for the Committee’s January 11 and 18 Executive 
Sessions Were Insufficient and the Committee Failed to Vote by Roll Call to Enter 
Executive Session on January 11.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
that they be open to members of the public unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the 
ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open 
session, the chair has properly announced the purpose or purposes for convening in executive 
session, a majority of members of the body have voted by roll call to convene in executive 
session, and the chair has announced whether the body will reconvene in open session. G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.
6 With respect to the announcement prior to 
convening in executive session, the chair must “state the purpose for the executive session, 
stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the 
executive session was called.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. 
v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“A precise statement of the reason for 
convening in executive session is necessary . . . because that is the only notification given to the 
public that [a public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would 
know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper.”). This level of detail about the 
executive session topic must also be included on the meeting notice. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 
940 CMR 29.03(1)(b); OML 2016-72; OML 2018-11; OML 2021-186. 
 
One permissible reason for convening in executive session is “to discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”). When convening in executive session under Purpose 3, a public body 
must identify the litigation matter or bargaining unit to be discussed if doing so will not 
compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy. See OML 2016-12; OML 2013-97. While we 
generally defer to a public body’s assessment of whether the inclusion of such information would 
 
3 Video recordings of Committee meetings may be found at 
https://www.everettpublicschools.org/apps/video/index.jsp. 
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
5 The meeting materials may be found at 
https://www.everettpublicschools.org/apps/pages/index.jsp?uREC_ID=1618426&type=d&pREC_ID=2495789. 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
compromise the purpose for the executive session, a public body must be able to demonstrate a 
reasonable basis for such a claim if challenged. See OML 2015-14. 
 
Another permissible reason to convene in executive session is “[t]o discuss the 
reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, 
of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought 
against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) 
(“Purpose 1”). We have explained that a public body may convene in executive session to 
discuss an Open Meeting Law complaint filed with the body; however, the proper executive 
session purpose for such discussion is Purpose 1, not Purpose 3. See OML 2012-119; OML 
2013-82; OML 2023-39. The meeting notice and announcement prior to convening in executive 
session should identify the Open Meeting Law complaint to be discussed by, for example, 
including the complainant’s name or other descriptive information about the complaint. See G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 20(b), 21(b); 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b); OML 2019-34; OML 2019-64.  
 
The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on January 11, which read in 
relevant part as follows: 
 
l. To discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of 
the public body and the chair so declares: To discuss complaints or charges brought 
against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual to wit: OML 
Complaints v. Committee by Sterite, Lambert, and Fried, pursuant to Mass. Gen. 
L. c. 30A sec. 2l(a)(l). To update committee members on all pending litigation. 
 
 During the open session portion of the January 11 meeting, Interim Superintendent 
William Hart read aloud the above topic. Thereafter, the Committee voted by voice vote to 
convene in executive session. During the executive session Attorney Galvin and Attorney Janet 
Barringer provided updates on various legal matters they were handling for the school system.
7 
 
 The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on January 18, which read in 
relevant part as follows:  
 
To discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of 
the public body and the chair so declares: To discuss complaints or charges brought 
against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual to wit: OML 
Complaints v. Committee by Sterite and Fried, pursuant to Mass. Gen. L. c. 30A 
sec. 2l(a)(l). 
 
During the January 18 meeting Interim Superintendent Hart read the above executive 
session topic aloud. The Committee then voted by roll call to enter executive session. During the 
executive session, Attorney Galvin reviewed with the Committee six Open Meeting Law 
 
7 Because the minutes of the January 11 and 18 executive sessions have not yet been released to the public, we do 
not recount in detail the discussions held during the executive sessions.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
complaints and proposed responses to the complaints. The Open Meeting Law complaints 
discussed were filed by Paula Sterite, Samantha Lambert, and Attorney Fried. 
 
The complaints allege that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
identify the litigation matters or bargaining units to be discussed in executive session on January 
11 and 18. We understand, based on the Committee’s response and further communications with 
Attorney Galvin, that the Committee does not typically identify each separate litigation matter 
when it will discuss several litigation matters in one executive session; that it does not identify 
matters filed with the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination (“MCAD”) or the 
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”) out of concern for the complainants’ 
privacy; and that the Committee does not, as a matter of course, identify matters filed with the 
American Arbitration Association or Department of Labor Relations even though the Committee 
does not consider these to be confidential. 
 
 
With respect to the notice topic and announcement for the January 11 executive session, 
the Committee was required to separately identify each litigation matter to be discussed, 
excluding any matters for which identification would have compromised the purpose for the 
executive session. When convening in executive session to discuss strategy with respect to 
litigation, the purpose of the executive session is to protect the public body’s litigating position, 
in general vis-à-vis opposing parties to the litigation, not to keep confidential from the public the 
existence of the litigation matters or to avoid the inconvenience of public scrutiny. See OML 
2020-68; OML 2020-158; OML 2023-189. The Committee has made no showing that 
identifying the litigation matters—which presumably were already a matter of public record—
would have compromised its litigating position. 
 
With respect to the Committee’s concern for the privacy of MCAD and EEOC 
complainants, the Committee could have withheld the complainants’ identities while still 
identifying the types of matters to be discussed. See OML 2019-37 (public body may withhold 
name of grievant to protect employee’s privacy); OML 2015-180 (same). Therefore, we find the 
January 11 notice and announcement insufficient with respect to all litigation matters discussed 
in executive session.  
 
With respect to the notice and announcement for the January 18 executive session, the 
Committee properly identified Purpose 1 as the executive session purpose. The Committee also 
properly identified two of the three Open Meeting Law complainants whose complaints would 
be discussed. However, the Committee failed to identify the third Open Meeting Law 
complainant whose complaint would be discussed and therefore we find that the notice and 
announcement were insufficient.
8  
 
 
8 Discussion of Open Meeting Law complaints is appropriate for executive session under Purpose 1 as Open 
Meeting Law complaints are, by their nature, complaints against public officials. However, discussion of Open 
Meeting Law complaints does not fall under Purpose 3, as an Open Meeting Law complaint is not litigation. See 
OML 2023-39; OML 2012-119. By describing the January 11 and 18 Open Meeting Law complaint discussions as 
“strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation,” which suggested a discussion under executive session 
Purpose 3, the Committee unnecessarily created confusion.  
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Next, we must determine whether the violation was intentional, as the Complainant 
urges. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body 
or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. An 
intentional violation may be found where, for example, the public body “(a) acted with specific 
intent to violate the law; (b) acted with deliberate ignorance of the law’s requirements; or (c) was 
previously informed by . . . a court of competent jurisdiction or . . . the Attorney General . . . that 
the conduct violates [Open Meeting Law].” Id. The Complainant asks our office to find the 
violation intentional because she brought the issue to the Committee’s attention on more than 
one occasion. We have not previously warned the Committee about the violation found here, nor 
do we find other evidence that would support a finding of an intentional violation. Therefore, we 
decline to find the violation to have been intentional. 
 
Because the Committee failed to provide proper notice of the discussions to be held in 
executive session on January 11, it may not rely upon the Open Meeting Law to withhold the 
minutes of that executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f) (“The minutes of any executive 
session . . . may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety . . . as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer; provided, 
however, that the executive session was held in compliance with section 21.”). Therefore, we 
order the Committee to release the minutes to the public within 45 days of the date of this letter, 
and to certify to our office that it has done so. We note, however, that the attorney-client 
privilege or one or more of the exemptions to the Public Records Law may allow the Committee 
to redact the minutes, in whole or in part, prior to releasing them to the public. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(f); OML 2019-10; OML 2018-39; OML 2016-121; 2015-193.9 
 
 Finally, we find that the Committee failed to vote by roll call prior to entering executive 
session on January 11, in violation of the Open Meeting Law. G.L. 30A, § 21(b)(2). 
 
II. The Minutes of the Committee’s January 11 and 18 Executive Sessions are 
Insufficient. 
 
Although not raised in the complaint because the executive session minutes have not yet 
been released to the public or the Complainant, we find that the minutes of the January 11 and 18 
executive sessions are insufficiently detailed and therefore inaccurate. The Open Meeting Law 
requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions, setting forth . . . a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a) (emphasis added). When 
reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial 
compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2017-104; OML 2013-64. By substantial 
compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a 
member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear 
understanding of what occurred. See OML 2019-145; OML 2012-106. Although a transcript of 
the discussions is not required, the minutes must include a substantive summary of the discussion 
 
9 Questions or concerns regarding redactions made pursuant to the attorney-client privilege or the Public Records 
Law should be directed to the Supervisor of Records within the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s office. See OML 
2024-119. 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
on each topic. See OML 2020-57; OML 2020-18; OML 2019-167. The Open Meeting Law 
requires that meeting minutes include more than a statement that a public body held a discussion 
about a specified topic; the Law requires that the minutes summarize the substance of the public 
body’s discussion. See OML 2020-53; OML 2019-167; OML 2018-8.  
 
Minutes of executive sessions must include the same level of detail as is required for 
open session minutes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2020-53; OML 2022-189 (finding that 
even if information discussed during an executive session may properly be withheld from the 
public, the public body is not excused from the obligation to create accurate minutes of the 
meeting). Here, the minutes do not summarize the discussions that were held. Indeed, the 
minutes of the January 11 executive session substantively summarize the approximately three-
hour long meeting in less than one page and are so vague in parts that it is not possible to 
understand what specific matters were discussed. We order the Committee to amend the minutes 
of its January 11 and 18 executive sessions to summarize the discussions that were held. 
 
III. The Committee and Search Committee Failed to Timely Approve Open Session 
Meeting Minutes; However, the Minutes for the Search Committee’s Final Three 
Meetings Are Not Untimely. 
 
As discussed above, the Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and 
maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
The Law additionally requires that “[m]inutes of all open sessions shall be created and approved 
in a timely manner.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law 
regulations define “timely manner” as being “within the next three public body meetings or 
within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further 
delay.” 940 CMR 29.11(2).
10 The obligation to create and maintain accurate meeting minutes 
continues beyond the existence of the public body. See OML 2016-96; OML 2020-69; OML 
2024-25, n.5. When a subcommittee has been disbanded, we have said that the parent public 
body should approve the subcommittee’s meeting minutes. See OML 2012-111; OML 2016 -96; 
OML 2017-34. 
 
The complaints allege that the Committee failed to timely approve minutes for its 
meetings held on December 20 and 27, 2023, and that the Search Committee failed to timely 
approve minutes for meetings held on the following dates in 2023: September 12 and 27; 
October 11; November 1, 8, 21, and 29; and December 9, 13, and 15. We find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely approve the minutes of its 
December 20 and 27, 2023, meetings where those minutes were not approved until the 
 
10 The Bristol Superior Court recently explained that the Open Meeting Law does not require executive session 
minutes to be approved and found that the Open Meeting Law regulation requiring approval of executive session 
meeting minutes “imposes additional requirements on the maintenance of executive session minutes that cannot be 
read in harmony with the statute and thus is invalid.” Swansea Board of Selectmen v. Attorney General, Civil Action 
No. 2173CV00906 (Bristol Superior Court). Therefore, we decline to review whether the Committee or Search 
Committee timely approved executive session minutes. However, we note that public bodies are still obligated to 
create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, and that executive session 
minutes must include the same level of accuracy and detail as open session minutes. To ensure the accuracy of 
executive session minutes, and thereby compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we encourage public bodies to 
approve or otherwise review executive sessions minutes within three meetings or 30 days. 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
Committee’s February 5, 2024, meeting which was more than 30 days and later than three 
meetings. Because these minutes have since been approved, we do not order additional remedial 
action with respect to this violation.   
 
Next, we find, and the Committee acknowledges, that the Search Committee violated the 
Open Meeting Law where it failed to timely approve several sets of meeting minutes.11 
However, the Committee asserts that with respect to the minutes of the Search Committee’s final 
three meetings—held on December 9, 13, and 15, 2023—the minutes “could not be reviewed for 
approval by the Search Committee since the term of the Search Committee ended after it 
advanced two names for review and approval to the School Committee.” We disagree with the 
Committee’s assertion that the Search Committee “could not” review the minutes of its final 
three meetings—the Open Meeting Law does not govern the method of approving meeting 
minutes and public bodies may choose the method for approval. See OML 2020-81; OML 2019-
107; OML 2019-9. We have stated that acceptable methods include, but are not limited to, 
approval by the public body chair alone or by another designated individual, approval by 
majority vote of the public body, approval by consent of the body (approved unless there is an 
objection), or approval by a parent public body on behalf of a subcommittee. See OML 2019-
107; OML 2019-25; OML 2017-34.  
 
Although we disagree with the Committee’s assertion that the final three sets of minutes 
“could not” have been reviewed, we find that those three sets of minutes are not untimely where 
the Search Committee’s December 15, 2023, meeting was its final meeting. The Search 
Committee was a separate public body from the Committee for purposes of complying with the 
Open Meeting Law and therefore the minutes of the Search Committee’s meetings were required 
to be approved within the later of 30 days or three meetings of the Search Committee. See OML 
2020-19; OML 2022-85; OML 2023-42. Nonetheless, the Search Committee’s minutes, 
including those of its final three meetings, must be approved; therefore, we order the Committee, 
within 45 days of the date of this letter, to approve or ensure the approval of any Search 
Committee minutes that have not yet been approved. See OML 2023-137.  
 
IV. The Committee Failed to Timely Respond to a Request for Meeting Minutes and 
Failed to Timely Review Executive Session Minutes in Response to a Request. 
 
The Open Meeting Law provides that “[t]he minutes of an open session, if they exist and 
whether approved or in draft form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 
days.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). With respect to executive session minutes, a public body may 
withhold such minutes for “as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the 
executive session, but no longer; provided, however, that the executive session was held in 
compliance with section 21.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). Public bodies are required to “at reasonable 
intervals, review the minutes of executive sessions to determine if the provisions of this 
subsection warrant continued non-disclosure.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22 (g)(1). The public body must 
announce the result of that review at its next meeting and record the announcement in the 
minutes of that meeting. Id.  
 
11 In its response the Committee did not address the minutes of the Search Committee’s meeting held on November 
1, 2023. We understand this to have been an oversight and not an assertion that the Search Committee did approve 
these minutes. 
===PAGE 8===
8 
 
 
Upon receipt of a request for executive session minutes, a public body must respond to 
the requestor within ten days. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). If the public body has recently performed 
the review required under G.L. c. 30A, § 22 (g)(1), then it should respond to the requester within 
ten days providing any minutes it determined should be released and explaining if any minutes 
continue to be withheld. See OML 2013-105; OML 2013-99. If, however, at the time of a request 
the public body has not recently conducted the periodic review of its executive session minutes, 
then the body must review the requested minutes to determine if the minutes must be released. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). This review must be performed by the body’s next meeting or within 30 
days, whichever occurs first. Id. In such circumstances, the body must still respond to the 
requester within ten days, notifying them that the body is conducting a review of the requested 
executive session minutes. See OML 2013-99. 
 
On January 2, Attorney Fried, on behalf of her clients, submitted a request under both the 
Public Records Law and the Open Meeting Law for various records. The request was made via 
the City’s Public Records system as well as by email to Mike Mangan, who had been chair of the 
Committee,
12 and Attorney Galvin. Attorney Fried requested, among other things, various sets of 
open and executive session minutes for meetings held by the Committee and the Search 
Committee.  
 
On January 16, Attorney Galvin responded to Attorney Fried by email requesting an 
extension of time until January 23 to respond to certain parts of the request, including portions 
related to meeting minutes of the Committee and Search Committee. In his January 16 email, 
Attorney Galvin also explained that he anticipated providing some records that day and that the 
Committee would be withholding executive session minutes until the minutes were reviewed but 
did not offer a timeframe for when such a review would occur. Attorney Fried responded to 
Attorney Galvin that same day agreeing to an extension of time until January 23 provided that 
Attorney Galvin confirm in writing that no fee would be assessed for production of the records 
and asking for more information about why the executive session minutes were being withheld. 
Later on January 16, Attorney Galvin responded to Attorney Fried stating that, with respect to 
the executive session minutes, “the Committee discussed and approved last Tuesday . . . that [it] 
is conducting a review of all of the Committee and subcommittee meeting minutes. . . . This 
process will encompass an extended time and I am recommending we start with the most recent 
and go backwards.” 
 
  On January 23, Attorney Galvin responded further to Attorney Fried’s request and 
provided, among other things, various sets of draft and final open session minutes for meetings 
of the Committee. Attorney Galvin also noted that the Committee agreed to produce copies of 
draft and final open session minutes for meetings of the Search Committee, which he expected to 
produce later that day. Finally, Attorney Galvin explained that the Committee declined to 
provide any executive session minutes at that time, stating that “[a] review of this material is 
presently approved and pending.” 
 
 
12 In its response, the Committee explains that Mr. Mangan was no longer a member of the Committee on January 2. 
However, the Committee does not assert that it did not receive the request for meeting minutes on January 2. 
===PAGE 9===
9 
 
We find that the Committee failed to timely respond to Attorney Fried’s January 2 
request for meeting minutes where it did not respond at all until after ten calendar days had 
passed. Additionally, although we appreciate that upon receiving the request for executive 
session minutes the Committee sought to review the status of all executive session minutes under 
its control, the Committee was obligated to review the specific executive session minutes 
requested by its next meeting or 30 days, whichever was sooner. The Committee failed to do so. 
We understand that as of the time of the Committee’s response to the Open Meeting Law 
complaints it was still reviewing executive session minutes to determine whether the minutes 
must be released. If the Committee has not yet done so, we order the Committee to respond to 
Attorney Fried explaining whether the particular executive session minutes she requested 
continue to be withheld, or to provide her with any minutes that the Committee has determined 
may no longer be withheld.  
 
Finally, we remind the Committee of its obligation to periodically review its executive 
session minutes as required under G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1) and to announce the results of the 
review at its next meeting, recording the announcement in the minutes of that meeting. Quarterly 
reviews or reviews every six months satisfy the requirement to periodically review executive 
session minutes. Compare OML 2015-166 (finding a six-month review sufficient) and OML 
2024-64 (finding a three-month review sufficient), with OML 2024-82 (finding a nine-month 
review insufficient). 
 
V. The Committee Failed to Timely Respond to an Open Meeting Law Complaint Filed 
on December 20, 2023. 
 
 The complaints allege that the Committee or Search Committee failed to timely respond 
to Open Meeting Law complaints filed on September 27 and December 8, 12, 13, and 20, 2023. 
We decline to review this allegation with respect to the complaints filed on September 27 and 
December 8, 12, and 13, 2023, because the allegation is not timely with respect to these 
complaints. See OML Declination 11-19-21 (Mashpee Planning Board) (finding a complaint 
alleging a failure to timely respond to a prior complaint was untimely when it was not filed 
within 30 days of when the response to the prior complaint was due); see also OML 2024-134 
(when reviewing the timeliness of a third-party compliant regarding an individual’s Purpose 1 
rights, “we consider when the alleged violation was reasonably discoverable to the Purpose 1 
subject.”).  
 
Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public 
body within 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23; 940 CMR 29.05(4). The Open 
Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law Regulations require that, within 14 
business days after receiving a complaint, a public body must meet to review the complaint’s 
allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the complainant a response and a 
description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23; 940 CMR 29.05(5). The public body 
shall simultaneously provide the Attorney General with a copy of the complaint, the response, 
and a description of any remedial action taken. 940 CMR 29.05(5). That the Committee or 
Search Committee failed to timely respond to the Open Meeting Law complaints was reasonably 
discoverable on the fifteenth business day following the complaints being filed with the public 
bodies. Therefore, the 30-day filing deadline began on that fifteenth business day.  
===PAGE 10===
10 
 
 
The only complaint for which the allegation of an untimely response was timely raised is 
the complaint filed with the Committee on December 20, 2023. We find that the Committee 
failed to timely respond to the December 20, 2023, Open Meeting Law complaint where it did 
not respond until January 19, 2024, more than 14 business days after the complaint was filed 
with the Committee. Because the Committee has since responded to the complaint, we do not 
order additional remedial action.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by 1) providing insufficient notice for its executive sessions held on January 11 and 18; 2) failing 
to take a roll call vote prior to convening in executive session on January 11; 3) creating 
insufficient minutes of its executive sessions held on January 11 and 18; 4) failing to timely 
approve open session meeting minutes; 5) failing to timely respond to a request for meeting 
minutes; 6) failing to timely review executive session minutes in response to a request for such 
minutes; and 7) failing to timely respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint. We find that the 
Search Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely approve open session 
meeting minutes.   
 
We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, and caution that future similar conduct may be considered evidence of an intent to violate 
the Law. We additionally order the Committee as follows: 
 
1) To amend the minutes of its January 11 and 18 executive session meetings to comply 
with the requirements outlined above; 
2) To release to the public the minutes of its January 11 executive session, subject to 
permissible redactions; 
3) To approve or ensure the approval of the minutes of the Search Committee’s final three 
meetings; 
4) To review, if it has not yet done so, the executive session minutes that Attorney Fried 
requested on January 2 and respond to her request by providing any executive session 
minutes that may no longer be withheld and explaining which, if any, minutes continue to 
be withheld;  
5) To certify to our office within forty-five (45) days of the date of this letter that it has 
complied with the above; and 
6) In l ight of the number and breadth of Open Meeting Law violations found here, we order 
all members of the Committee to attend an Open Meeting Law webinar training 
presented by our office within ninety (90) days of the Committee’s receipt of this letter 
and to certify to our office that they have done so within ninety-five (95) days of receipt 
of this letter.13  
 
  
 
13 Information about upcoming Open Meeting Law webinars may be found on the Division’s website at 
https://www.mass.gov/service-details/open-meeting-law-trainings. 
===PAGE 11===
11 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee, 
Search Committee, or our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Jeanne Cristiano, Chair, Everett School Committee  
(via email: jcristiano@everett.k12.ma.us)  
Ivria Glass Fried, Esq., Harrington Heep (via email: ifried@harringtonheep.com) 
Everett City Clerk (via email: cityclerk@ci.everett.ma.us) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
