===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 22, 2017 
OML 2017-101 
Mark Emery, Chair 
Rowley Board of Water Commissioners 
401 Central Street 
Rowley, MA 01969 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Emery: 
This office received a complaint from MaryBeth Wiser, dated May 30, alleging that the 
Rowley Board of Water Commissioners (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 3, and the Board 
responded by letter dated May 19. In her complaint, Ms. Wiser alleges that the Board discussed 
an anticipated topic that had not been listed on the meeting notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice and draft minutes of 
a Board meeting held on May 1. We spoke with the complainant by telephone on June 9, and we 
spoke with former Board chair John Manning by telephone on June 12. 
We find the facts as follows. At all times relevant to this complaint. Board member John 
Manning was the chair. The Board held a noticed meeting on April 25, during which its 
members discussed an upcoming session of Town Meeting. Specifically, the Board discussed 
the substance and wording of several motions, and the Board members divvied up the 
responsibilities for which members would make which motions during Town Meeting. 
The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on May 1, the day of Town Meeting. 
The notice listed several anticipated discussion topics, but it did not indicate that the Board 
would discuss any matter related to that evening's Town Meeting. Prior to the meeting, an 
administrative clerk provided the Board with typed copies of the proposed motions that had been 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
discussed during the April 25 meeting. During the meeting, the Board members signed the 
motions. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to post notice of all meetings. G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b). Each notice must include the date, time, and location of the meeting, as well as "a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." Id 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law because it 
discussed Town Meeting warrant articles during its May 1 meeting without listing this discussion 
on the meeting notice. As an initial matter, it is unclear how much, if any, substantive discussion 
took place during the May 1 meeting concerned the proposed motions. The complaint alleges 
that the Board discussed the motions. In its response, the Board states that signing the motions 
was a purely ministerial act that involved no further deliberation. See OML 2015-8; OML 2014-
84 (a ministerial act, such as signing a document, may be done outside of a noticed meeting 
where the terms have been previously discussed an approved during a noticed meeting).2 In any 
event, even if we accept the suggestion that the Board discussed the motions during the May 1 
meeting, it is clear that Mr. Manning did not reasonably anticipate discussing the motions during 
the May 1 meeting. Rather, to the extent that the motions were discussed at all, such discussion 
only took place because the administrative clerk provided the Board with the typed drafts. This 
occurred on the day of the meeting itself, and Mr. Manning stated to our office that he did not 
anticipate being provided with these drafts, as it was not standard Board practice to sign motions 
prior to Town Meeting. Because this was not foreseen by the chair at least 48 hours prior to the 
May 1 meeting, any discussion of the motions would be permissible under the Open Meeting 
Law. See OML 2017-51. Accordingly, we fmd no violation. 
For the reasons stated above, we fmd that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganard 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Mary Beth Wiser 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 