===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
May 19, 2011 
OML 2011-18 
Mr. Keith Cheveralls, Chairman 
Harvard School Committee 
39 Massachusetts Avenue 
Harvard, MA 01451 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Cheveralls, 
On November 24, 2010 this office received a complaint filed by Ms. Deborah Skauen-
Hinchliffe alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by the Harvard 
School Committee ("Committee"). Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Committee has 
not released documents requested by the complainant, including minutes of executive sessions, 
despite the purpose for which the executive session was called now being concluded. The 
documents requested include: 
copies of all records in their native format relating in any manner 
concerning Thomas Jefferson in discussions, decisions and negotiations 
that resulted in the 'Statement of the Harvard School Committee, September 
13, 2010' ...meant to include any and all Harvard School Committee 
executive sessions, any and all records of Naomi Stonberg, any and all 
records of the law firm of Brody, Hardoon, Perkins and Kesten, any and 
all records of meetings of the school committee or individual members 
of the school committee with any counsel, and any and all records of 
Thomas Jefferson and his counsel. 
The complaint requests that our office order the Committee to release all requested 
documents. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on October 11, 2010. The 
Committee's response to the complaint was received by this office on November 9, 2010. 
===PAGE 2===
We have determined that, for purposes of our review, the meetings that "relat[e] in any 
manner [to] Thomas Jefferson in discussions, decisions and negotiations that resulted in the 
'Statement of the Harvard School Committee, September 13, 2010" incorporate the meetings of 
the Committee that occurred on May 10, 2010; May 28, 2010; June 29, 2010; July 12, 2010; 
July 19, 2010; August 30, 2010; and September 8, 2010. 
Our office reviewed the initial complaint; the Board's response; the public meeting 
notices for the May 10, 2010; May 28, 2010; June 29, 2010; July 19, 2010, August 30, 2010 and 
September 8, 2010 meetings; the minutes of the executive sessions of the Committee convened 
on May 10, 2010; May 28, 2010; June 29, 2010; July 12, 2010; July 19, 2010; August 30, 2010; 
and September 8, 2010; the open session minutes from the Committee meeting on September 13, 
2010; the public statement of the Committee delivered during the September 13, 2010 meeting, 
and correspondence submitted to our office by counsel for Harvard Public Schools 
Superintendent, Dr. Thomas Jefferson. Our office also engaged in joint conversations with 
outside counsel for the Committee, Attorney Leonard Kesten; and counsel for Dr. Jefferson, 
Attorneys Michael Long and Joshua Coleman. We appreciate the cooperation of the Committee 
and counsel for all interested parties throughout this process. 
Based upon our review of this information we fmd that the purpose for which the 
Committee entered executive session on the dates in question is concluded. Accordingly, we 
order the release of the minutes of the executive sessions convened by the Committee on May 
28, 2010; June 29, 2010; July 19, 2010; and August 30, 2010, as well as the minutes of the 
executive session convened by the Committee on September 8, 2010, pursuant to G.L. c 30A, § 
23(c)(6) and in accordance with G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f), and subject to G.L. c. 4, § 7, cl. 26 ("the 
Public Records Law.") We note that the Committee has already approved and released the 
minutes of the May 10, 2010 and July 12, 2010 executive sessions, which are available on the 
Committee's website. We further order the release of any documents used by the Committee 
during the meetings convened on May 10, 2010; May 28, 2010; June 29, 2010; July 19, 2010; 
August 30, 2010, and September 8, 2010, pursuant to G.L. c 30A, §23(c)(6) and in accordance 
with G.L. c. 30A, §22(f), and subject to the Public Records Law. 
FACTS 
On April 28, 2010, the State Ethics Commission issued a determination that found the 
town of Harvard's Superintendent of Schools, Dr. Thomas Jefferson, in violation of state ethics 
laws and assessed a $4,000 fme. 1  The Committee convened its first meeting following the 
issuance of the determination by the State Ethics Commission on May 10, 2010. According to 
the open session minutes of the May 10 th  meeting, the Committee entered executive session for 
the purpose of, "consider[ing] matters of discipline and/or to hear complaints or charges relating 
to the State Ethics Commission decision and order issued on April 28 th, 2010." During the 
executive session on May 10 th, the minutes of which have previously been released, the 
Committee's discussion focused largely on the decision to obtain independent counsel, "to assist 
the School Committee in determining the appropriate response to the finding of the State Ethics 
The determination is currently the subject of an appeal in Suffolk Superior Court. See Jefferson v. State Ethics 
Commission,  No. SUCV2010-02009 (May 19, 2010). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Commission." The minutes of the executive session do not include any references to documents 
or exhibits. We note, however, that during the subsequent May 28th  meeting, a reference is made 
to a document provided to School Committee members by School Counsel Naomi Stonberg 
during the May 10th  meeting. 
The Committee next met on May 28, 2010. The meeting was called to order at 9:05 a.m. 
According to the minutes reviewed by our office, the Committee discussed, in general terms, the 
purpose of the meeting. The minutes reflect that executive session was convened upon a 
"[m]otion to go into Executive Session by Pat Wenger; Piali De seconded the motion," followed 
by the roll call. A discussion with counsel pertaining to the acquisition of documents and access 
to individuals ensued. The meeting adjourned at 11:00 a.m. The minutes include references to 
several documents as existing and likely to be useful in the context of counsel's review, but none 
appear to have been used by the Committee during the executive session. As noted above, the 
executive session minutes reference a document distributed to the Committee by School Counsel 
Naomi Stonberg during the May 10, 2010 meeting of the Committee. 
The Committee's next meeting occurred on June 29, 2010. The meeting was called to 
order at 7:14 p.m. The Committee voted to immediately convene in executive session for the 
purpose of "reviewing and considering matters related to the possible discipline or termination of 
a school official," and stated that it would not reconvene in open session. The ensuing 
discussion with counsel lasted for approximately one hour. The conversation focused generally 
on the process undertaken by counsel in making a recommendation on potential disciplinary 
action. The Committee adjourned at 8:23 p.m. The minutes do not include any references to 
documents or exhibits. 
The Committee met next on July 12, 2010 in an open session and subsequently convened 
in executive session. As noted above, the Committee previously voted to approve and make the 
minutes of the July 12th  meeting available to the public. Accordingly, we will refrain from 
commenting on the deliberations undertaken during the July 12th  meeting with the exception of 
noting that the minutes reflect consideration by the Committee of the minutes of executive 
sessions that occurred on May 10th, May 24th, May 28th, and June 29th. Relevant to our 
determination here, the Committee decided during this executive session that the minutes of the 
executive sessions occurring on May 28th  and June 29th  would, "be made public at the conclusion 
of all proceedings and decisions related to [the] ethics decision." The minutes do not include any 
references to documents or exhibits relevant to the inquiry before us. 
On July 19, 2010 the Committee again convened in a duly Posted meeting and 
immediately convened in executive session, "at a meeting for which 48 [hours] notice has been 
given to hear recommendations for and to consider the discipline of an employee." The 
Superintendent was present at the meeting. The ensuing discussion lasted for approximately two 
hours and entailed deliberations on counsel's review of the Superintendent's actions in light of 
the State Ethics Commission determination and a discussion among the Committee about 
appropriate disciplinary action. Counsel for the Committee submitted recommendations for 
appropriate discipline. Then, each member of the Committee was given the opportunity to speak 
about the issues raised by the review. Following the individual statements, counsel for Dr. 
Jefferson made a proposal for disciplinary action. One Committee member countered with 
another proposal. It was determined that further conversations between counsel for the 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Committee and the Superintendent would occur prior to the next executive session. The minutes 
do not include any references to documents or exhibits. 
The next executive session convened on August 30, 2010 during a meeting that was duly 
posted by the Committee. The Committee entered executive session, "as authorized by Chapter 
30A, Section[s] 18-25 of the Massachusetts General Laws, at a meeting for which 48 hours 
notice has been given to hear recommendations for an to consider the discipline of an employee," 
and stated it would not return to open session following the executive session. The minutes 
indicate that the Committee then engaged in a detailed discussion, lasting approximately one 
hour and forty minutes, regarding the appropriate degree of discipline; the professional 
repercussions of any potential discipline on the Superintendent; and how the Committee would 
publicly address the issues raised by counsel's review and any potential disciplinary actions. 
Documents referred to in the minutes, but not listed as used by the Committee, include a letter on 
an Order of Impoundment submitted by Counsel for the Superintendent, and a copy of the main 
motion, as amended, of the disciplinary action fmally adopted by the Committee. 
On September 8, 2010, the Committee again met during a duly posted meeting and, 
according to the minutes, convened immediately at 7:00 p.m. for the purpose of "enter[ing] 
executive session as authorized by Chapter 30A, Section[s] 18-25 of the Massachusetts General 
Laws to consider the discipline of an employee." The Committee then voted to approve the 
minutes of the May 10, 2010; May 28, 2010; June 29, 2010 and July 19, 2010 executive session 
minutes, with specific amendments noted. Committee members were asked to review the 
minutes of the August 30, 2010 executive session with the intent of approving them, "at the next 
available opportunity." The Committee then deliberated on a public statement it would make in 
conjunction with the announcement that the Committee had concluded its review and 
consideration of disciplinary action related to the State Ethics Commission determination. The 
minutes reflect that the Committee decided to read the public statement during the Committee 
meeting scheduled for September 13, 2010. The members then engaged in further conversation 
pertaining to the disciplinary action agreed to by the Committee. The Committee adjourned at 
9:05 p.m. Documents referred to in the minutes, but not listed as used by the Committee, include 
the draft public statement discussed during the meeting. 
On September 13, 2010, the Committee convened in a posted open session, the minutes 
of which are available on the Committee's website. During the session the Committee read a 
statement "regarding the School Committee's findings pertaining to the ethics matter." The 
statement reviewed by our office, and available publicly, referred to the Cominittee's review and 
decision to take "appropriate action," with regard to the State Ethics Commission determination. 
Following the Committee's statement, the minutes reflect that Dr. Jefferson read "a prepared 
statement." At the conclusion of the summary regarding the statements, the minutes state "[t]he 
matter is now considered closed." Documents referred to in the minutes, but not listed as used 
by the Committee, include the prepared statement of the Committee and the prepared statement 
of Dr. Jefferson. 
DISCUSSION 
The complainant alleges that the Committee has acted in contravention of the Open Meeting 
4 
===PAGE 5===
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by failing to release "records... relating in any manner concerning 
Thomas Jefferson in discussions, decisions and negotiations that resulted in the 'Statement of the 
Harvard School Committee,.September 13, 2010." 
As an initial matter, we must address the scope of the complainant's request. The 
Attorney General is authorized to interpret and enforce the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 25. Our office may "compel that minutes, records, or other materials be made public," that 
pertain to the official record of a public body created during a meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(d); 
§ 23(c)(6). Documents that are "used by the body at an open or executive session," are 
considered to be part of the official record of the session. G.L. c. 30A, §22(d). We interpret 
documents "used" at a meeting to include those documents physically present at the meeting and 
referred to by members of the public body in the context of its deliberations. Documents not used 
by the public body, and documents used by individuals other than members of the public body 
which are not in the custody of the public body, are necessarily excluded from those documents 
"used" by the public body and are not part of the official record. For purposes of this 
determination we segregate our discussion of the records requested into two parts: the executive 
session minutes and all other records. We address each in turn. 
1. Release of Executive Session Minutes 
Public bodies may enter executive session for one or more purposes delineated in the Open 
Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). A public body has discretion to enter executive session, 
however once it has been determined that a public body intends to enter executive session it 
bears the burden of showing the need for the closed session. See District Attorney for the  
Northwestern District v. Board of Selectmen of Simderland, 11 Mass. App. Ct. 663, 666 (1981). 
Furthermore, the public body is required to follow the procedure for entering executive session 
set forth in the law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). It is also required to maintain accurate minutes of 
the executive session: 
[t]he minutes of any executive session, the notes, recordings or other 
materials used in the preparation of such minutes and all documents 
and exhibits used at the session, may be withheld from disclosure to 
the public in their entirety under subclause (a) of clause Twenty-sixth 
of section 7 of chapter 4, as long as publication may defeat the lawful 
purposes of the executive session, but no longer... 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
Commensurate with the discretion granted to public bodies to enter executive session, the 
determination as to when the purpose for entering executive session is concluded is also at the 
discretion of the public body. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a); see also Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham  
Regional School Committee, 402 Mass. 179, 182 (1988). Indeed, the public body bears the 
burden of justifying continued nondisclosure of executive session minutes. Foudy, 402 Mass. at 
184. However, once the public body has determined that the purpose for which it entered 
executive session has concluded, the minutes may no longer remain private because, "it is 
5 
===PAGE 6===
essential to the democratic form of government that the public have broad access to the decisions 
made by its elected officials and to the way in which the decisions are reached." Id. 
Here, the Harvard School Committee acted with an abundance of caution to safeguard the 
rights of Dr. Jefferson while also conducting the business that was appropriately within its 
jurisdiction. Specifically, the Committee was tasked with determining whether and what 
disciplinary action was appropriate in the aftermath of a highly publicized matter that, by all 
accounts, caused friction within the community and, in some instances, was personally painful to 
members of the Committee. Prior to reaching a determination, the Committee sought counsel and 
deliberated over the course of seven meetings, several of which were attended by Counsel for the 
Superintendent and, in some cases, the Superintendent himself. Minutes created during four of 
those meetings are the subject of this determination. The question before us is whether the 
purpose for which the Committee entered executive session during the meetings in question has 
concluded. We fmd that it has. 
As stated above, public bodies are authorized to enter executive session for one or more 
of ten purposes delineated in the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). The statute states that 
the first purpose for which a public body may enter executive session is, "[t]o discuss the 
reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, 
of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of...a public officer, employee, staff 
member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). 2  
Before proceeding to our determination, we are obligated to point out that during the May 
28th  meeting, the Committee was not as conscientious about following the requirements of the 
Open Meeting Law for convening an executive session as it appears to have been during 
subsequent meetings. On May 28th, the Committee convened in executive session, but failed to 
state an appropriate purpose for entering executive session. The minutes reflect that following a 
discussion about the general purpose for the meeting, executive session was convened upon a, 
"[m]otion to go into Executive Session by Pat Wenger; Piali De seconded the motion," followed 
by the roll call. However, at no time prior to taking the roll call vote to enter executive session 
and beginning discussions in earnest did the Committee cite one of the purposes allowed under 
the law. While the Committee maintained accurate minutes of the ensuing executive session and 
corrected its actions in subsequent meetings, as discussed below, we would be remiss in our 
obligation to address all facets of the facts before us if we failed to identify this infraction. 
Notwithstanding the May 28th  meeting, the minutes of the June 29th, July 19th, August 
30th  and September 8th  meetings reflect that, during each meeting, the Committee entered 
executive session for the purpose of discussing the discipline of an employee. On June 29th, the 
Committee stated that the purpose for entering executive session was to review and consider 
"matters related to the possible discipline or termination of a school official." On July 19th  and 
August 30th, the Committee similarly stated its purpose for entering executive session was "to 
hear recommendations for and to consider the discipline of an employee." On September 8th, the 
minutes reflect that the Committee stated its purpose for entering executive session was "to 
2  We acknowledge that for two of the meetings that are the subject of this determination, May 28th  and June 29th, 
G.L. c. 39, § 23B (now repealed) applied. Like G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a), which we apply here, the previous law 
provided that a public body may enter executive session "No consider the discipline or dismissal of...a public 
officer, employee, staff member, or individual..." See G.L. C. 39, § 23B(2). 
6 
===PAGE 7===
consider the discipline of an employee." The deliberations that occurred during each of these 
executive sessions dealt with the discipline of an employee. Accordingly, in each of these 
instances, this was an appropriately stated purpose under the law. 
Similarly, the actions and recorded statements of the Committee also appropriately 
indicated when the purpose for entering the executive sessions was concluded. Our review of the 
executive session minutes indicates that, after meeting and deliberating during four meetings in 
executive session for the purpose of considering disciplinary action, the Committee finally 
reached agreement with regard to the disciplinary action it would pursue during the August 30, 
2010 meeting. During the August 30th  meeting, the Committee agreed to a course of discipline 
and communicated it to Counsel for the Superintendent. The Committee also agreed that a 
public announcement of the resolution of the matter would be reported during the School 
Committee meeting on September 13th, and that "the matter would be considered closed after 
these actions have occurred." 
On September 13th  the chair of the Committee read a statement during an open session of 
the Committee meeting that acknowledged: 
The School Committee met with outside counsel on May 28th, 
June 29th, July 19th  and August 30th  to discuss these difficult issues. 
Dr. Jefferson and his counsel were afforded the opportunity to attend 
these meetings and in fact were present at all but one. At the August 
30th  meeting, the Committee voted to take appropriate action in order 
to conclude this painful chapter in the Town's history. The laws 
of the Commonwealth prevent the Committee from making public 
the action taken. 
The statement concluded, "With this statement, the Committee now considers this matter 
closed." Furthermore, the minutes of the meeting state "Keith Cheveralls and Dr. Jefferson each 
read a prepared statement regarding the School Committee's fmdings pertaining to the ethics 
matter. The matter is now considered closed." (emphasis added). 
In our opinion, these declaratory statements of the Committee make clear its intent that 
the purpose for entering executive session to discuss the discipline of an employee on May 28th, 
June 29th, July 19th, August 30th  and September 8th  was now concluded. The Committee 
exercised the discretion granted to it within the limits of the Open Meeting Law. See Foudy, 402 
Mass.  at 182. Therefore, in accordance with G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f), the executive session minutes 
are required to be disclosed, subject to any applicable exemptions under the Public Records Law, 
G.L. c. 4, § 7, cl. 26. It is so ordered. 
2. Release of Other Records 
The Open Meeting Law that went into effect on July 1, 2010 requires that the minutes of 
open and executive sessions of meetings created and maintained by public bodies must include 
"a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).3  The law 
3  Prior to July 1, 2010, public bodies were under no obligation to list the documents used in the minutes maintained 
by the public body, however the records were required to be retained by custodians pursuant to the Public Records 
7 
===PAGE 8===
states explicitly that, "[d]ocuments and other exhibits used by the body at an open or executive 
session shall, along with the minutes, be part of the official record of the session." G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(d) (emphasis added). It further provides that all documents used by a public body at an 
executive session may be withheld under the Public Records Law, "as long as publication may 
defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
However, once the purpose for an executive session is concluded, "the minutes, preparatory 
materials and documents and exhibits of the session shall be disclosed unless the attorney-client 
privilege or 1 or more of the exemptions," to the Public Records Law apply to withhold the 
record in whole or in part. Id. 
Here, the Committee minutes from the executive sessions convened on July 12th, July 
19th, August 30th  and September 8th  do not include a list of documents and other exhibits used at 
the meeting as required by the Open Meeting Law. Accordingly, after reviewing the minutes of 
these executive sessions, we have determined that the context of the minutes suggests that the 
following documents were "used at the meeting" of the Committee: 
July 12th: 	 None 
July 19th: 	 None 
August 30th: A letter on an Order of Impoundment submitted by Counsel for the 
Superintendent; a copy of the main motion, as amended, of the 
disciplinary action finally adopted by the Committee 
September 8th: All draft public statements reviewed by the members of the Committee 
We are faced here with a unique issue given that the executive session minutes from the 
meetings in question were created prior to July 1, 2010 for meetings convened on May 10th, May 
28th  and June 29th• As noted in footnotes throughout this determination, prior to July 1, 2010 the 
provisions of G.L. c. 39, § 23B (now repealed) applied to the procedures for convening public 
meetings. Under that law, the Attorney General's authority to order remedial action such as the 
release of documents used during a meeting was significantly limited. However, though the 
executive session minutes were created prior to July 1, 2010, the minutes were not made 
available to the public until after July 1, 2010.4  At the time the minutes were approved and 
released, the Committee should have been aware of its obligation under the revised law to list the 
documents used at the meetings. With this as background, we have determined that the context 
of the minutes suggests that the following documents were "used at the meeting[s]" of the 
Committee: 
May 10th: 	 Jefferson writing distributed to Committee members by School Counsel 
Naomi Stonberg. 
May 28th: 	 None 
June 29th: 	 None 
The Open Meeting Law provides that all documents used by a public body at an 
Law. 4 The May 10, 2010 executive session minutes were approved on September 8, 2010 and made available to the 
public on October 12, 2010. The release of the May 28th  and June 29th  executive session minutes are the subject of 
this determination. 
8 
===PAGE 9===
executive session may be withheld under the Public Records Law, "as long as publication may 
defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). The 
statute further states, "[w]hen the purpose for which a valid executive session was held has been 
served, the...documents and exhibits of the session shall be disclosed unless the attorney-client 
privilege or 1 or more of the exemptions under [the Public Records Law] apply...." 
The purpose for which the Committee entered executive session concluded on September 
13, 2010, as determined above. Accordingly, consistent with the requirements of the Open 
Meeting Law, we order that the following documents "used at the meeting[s]" of the Committee 
be made available to the public, subject to G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f): 1) the Jefferson writing 
distributed to Committee members by School Counsel Naomi Stonberg on May 10, 2010; 2) the 
letter on an Order of Impoundment submitted by Counsel for the Superintendent to the 
Committee on August 30, 2010; 3) the main motion, as amended, of the disciplinary action 
adopted by the Committee on August 30, 2010; and 4) all draft public statements reviewed by 
the members of the Committee on September 8, 2010. 
We note that the release of the executive session minutes and the documents listed above 
will be the first time that the public is made fully aware of what transpired during the executive 
sessions and what documents were used by the Committee. This further illustrates the need for 
transparency reflected in this determination and order. 
ORDER 
The purpose for which the Committee convened in executive session on May 28, 2010; 
June 29, 2010; July 19, 2010; August 30, 2010; and September 8, 2010 now being concluded, the 
Committee is hereby ordered to release the executive session minutes of these meetings, subject 
to the Public Records Law. The Committee shall make the minutes available in a timely manner 
and no later than ten (10) days from the receipt of this determination. 
Additionally, we order the Committee to release the following documents used by the 
Committee during the course of its meetings: 1) the Jefferson writing distributed to Committee 
members by School Counsel Naomi Stonberg on May 10, 2010; 2) the letter on an Order of 
Impoundment submitted by Counsel for the Superintendent, used by the Committee on August 
30, 2010; 3) the Committee's main motion, as amended, of the disciplinary action finally 
adopted by the Committee, used on August 30, 2010; and 4) all draft public statements reviewed 
by the members of the Committee, used on September 8, 2010. These documents shall be 
released pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
In addition, we caution the Committee going forward to be cognizant of the requirements 
of the Open Meeting Law and, particularly, the requirement that all documents used during the 
course of a meeting be listed in the minutes. 
9 
===PAGE 10===
We appreciate the patience of all parties involved as we have sought to resolve this issue. 
With the issuance of this determination, we now consider this matter closed. 
Sincerely, 
Britte McBride 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Ms. Deborah Skauen-Hinchliffe 
Naomi Stonberg, Esq. 
Leonard Kesten, Esq. 
Michael Long, Esq. 
Joshua Coleman, Esq. 
10 