===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 14,2015 
OML 2015-46 
Gregg Corbo, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE; Open Meeting Law Complaint 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Sean P. Cunniff, dated February 21, 2015, 
alleging that the Topsfield Personnel Advisory Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on 
November 4, 2014, and, after an extension of time was granted by our office, the Committee 
responded by letter dated December 31, 2014. In his complaint, Mr. Cunniff alleges that the 
Committee failed to post notice for several meetings. In response, the Committee argues that it 
is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, thus it could not have violated the law's 
requirements. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law. Therefore, we find that the Committee violated the law by failing to post notice of 
its meetings. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the complaint; the Committee's 
response; and the request for further review filed with our office. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. At a May 2007 session of Town Meeting, the Town of 
Topsfield ("the Town") made changes to its Personnel Bylaw ("the Bylaw"), remaking the 
existing Personnel Board into the Committee. Of significance, the Bylaw reads as follows: 
The purpose of the Personnel Advisory Committee is to serve in an advisory capacity to 
the Board of Selectmen, Personnel Director and appropriate Town agencies and 
committees on non-union personnel policy issues referred to it by the Personnel Director. 
The Committee shall review and recommend changes for consideration by the Personnel 
Director and Selectmen on proposed personnel policies and practices, compensation and 
===PAGE 2===
fringe benefit policies and/or practices, and organizational changes recommended to the 
Selectmen by the Personnel Director. 
The Bylaw further provides that the Committee shall consist of no fewer than three 
individuals, although it includes no membership criteria beyond that. The Town Administrator, 
in her capacity as Personnel Director, appoints the Committee members. Currently, the 
Committee has four members. The Committee considers personnel matters only when asked for 
advice. The Committee's practice is to take no votes and make no formal endorsement of 
candidates, acting instead as a discussion forum wherein the various members can offer their 
opinions. Final personnel decisions rest with the Personnel Director, and the Bylaw states that 
the Personnel Director may make recommendations without input from the Committee. 
On November 3, 2014, the complainant attended a public meeting of the Committee. 
During this meeting, the Town Administrator stated that the Committee had presented her with a 
study concerning compensation within the Town, and that she would in turn present this study to 
the Board of Selectmen. The complainant expressed concern that the meetings during which the 
Committee created the study had not been noticed to the public. The Committee acknowledged 
that it did not follow the Open Meeting Taw. 
DISCUSSION 
The issue before us is whether the Committee is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law. "Public body" is defined, in relevant part, as "a multiple-member board, 
commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any 
county, district, city region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
We generally consider three characteristics to determine whether an entity is a public 
body subject to the Open Meeting Law: 
1. The entity must be "within" government and not excluded from the definition of 
"public body"; 
2. The entity must be a body empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a public purpose. 
Here, the Committee is clearly a multiple-member body located within government. It 
was established through a bylaw to serve a public purpose, namely to assist the Board of 
Selectmen and Personnel Director in evaluating Town policies. We also find that the Committee 
is a body empowered to act collectively. The plain language of the bylaw creating the 
Committee states that the Committee shall, "review and recommend changes" for consideration 
by the Personnel Director and Board of Selectmen. This is the type of language that we have 
found in the past empowers a body to act collectively. See OML 2012-30. 
We recognize that the Committee's practice has been to act as an informal focus group 
for the Personnel Director. We have held in the past that such focus groups are not empowered 
to act collectively and are not public bodies subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2012-
20; 2011-42. However, in those cases, the bodies were not structured in a way that allowed for 
collective action. Here, in contrast, the Committee's authorizing bylaw permits the Committee 
the option of engaging in collective action. Indeed, the Committee acted collaboratively in 
2 
===PAGE 3===
creating the study at issue. Because we find that the Committee is a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law, we find that the Committee violated the law by failing to post notice of its 
meetings. 
We take this opportunity to remind the Committee of its obligations under the Open 
Meeting Law. Notice of every meeting must be posted "at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, 
excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays" and every notice shall include "the date, time 
and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A public body is also required to "create and 
maintain minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and 
place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of the 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and actions taken at each 
meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Finally, all members of a 
public body must review the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Guide and certify in writing 
that they have reviewed the Guide.1 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We order immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that 
similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Further, we 
order the Committee to create minutes for all previous meetings to the best of its ability, through 
whatever means are available, including the memories and individual notations of the attendees. 
Compliance with this order should occur within sixty (60) days of the Committee's receipt of 
this letter. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Mr. Sean P. Cunniff 
Topsfield Personnel Advisory Committee 
The Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Guide can be found here: 
http://www.mass.gov/ago/docs/government/oml/oml-guide.pdf. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 