===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
March 25, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 43 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Lawrence Mayo, Esq.  
Town Counsel for the Town of Halifax 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Attorney Mayo: 
 
This office received a complaint from Amy Troup, a member of the Halifax Planning 
Board (the “Board”), on October 16, 2020,1 alleging that the Board, and specifically Chair Alan 
Dias, violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed 
with the Board on August 21, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated 
September 8. The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Law when the Chair read aloud a 
memo from the Town Administrator during the Board’s August 20 meeting without having first 
included this topic on the meeting notice.      
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, the request for further review, the notice for the Board’s August 20 meeting, 
and a video recording of the Board’s August 20 meeting.2   
 
 
 
 
1 All dates in this determination are in 2020, unless otherwise stated.  
2 A video recording of the Board’s August 20 meeting may be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zzAltCLvA5E. We note that it does not appear that the Chair announced that the 
meeting would be recorded. We remind the Board that if a meeting will be recorded, either by a member of the 
public or by the Board itself, the Chair must announce that the meeting will be recorded. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f); 
OML 2016-155. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. On August 12 the Town Administrator emailed a memo to 
all Town employees, elected officials, and members of public bodies regarding a public records 
request filed by the Complainant. The memo explained that the Complainant had made a request 
for “[a]ll emails, letters, and correspondence for which [she] was the primary subject . . ..” The 
memo further explained that this request pertained to all departments, department employees, 
and members of “all boards, commissions, and committees,” and requested that the recipients of 
the memo review their “emails, letters, and correspondence” and send copies of any responsive 
documents to the Town Administrator by August 26.  
 
On August 18, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on August 20. Neither the 
Town Administrator’s memo nor the Complainant’s public records request were included on the 
meeting notice. Toward the end of the Board’s August 20 meeting, the Chair noted that, although 
not included on the meeting notice, he wanted to read into the record the Town Administrator’s 
memo. The Chair explained that the Complainant had made a public records request, and then 
read the memo aloud, reading some portions verbatim and summarizing other portions. After the 
Chair finished reading the memo, the Complainant stated that this topic had not been included on 
the meeting notice; that a copy of the memo had not been included in her packet for the meeting; 
and that she believed the Chair read the memo aloud in an attempt to harass her. The Chair stated 
that the Complainant’s statement about harassment would be reflected in the record. There was 
no further discussion of the memo and the Board proceeded to the next item on the agenda.    
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, a public body “post notice 
of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Notices must 
contain the date, time, and place of the meeting, as well as a list of topics the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting. Id. A public body may discuss a truly unanticipated 
topic at a meeting, although the Attorney General strongly recommends that public bodies 
postpone discussion and action on unanticipated topics that are controversial or may be of 
particular interest to the public if the topic can wait until a subsequent meeting. See OML 2020-
172; OML 2019-131; OML 2018-119.3  
 
The Board offers several explanations for why the failure to include the memo on the 
meeting notice did not violate the Open Meeting Law. First, the Board asserts that there was no 
violation because the Town Administrator’s memo 1) was not “about” the Complainant, and 2) 
was not “controversial or of particular interest to the public.” The Open Meeting Law requires 
that meeting notices contain a list of the topics the chair anticipates will be discussed at a 
meeting; there is no exception for matters that are not believed to be controversial or of great 
interest to a particular individual or to the public.   
 
Next, the Board asserts that its “obligation to respond to the [memo] is outside of the 
jurisdiction of the [Board because] . . . there can be no discussion, decision or recommendation 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
to make in the case of a public records request, as the request must be fulfilled according to 
statute.” We disagree. Whether and how a public body must respond to a public records request 
is a matter within the public body’s jurisdiction. See OML 2015-88 (public body met in 
executive session to discuss whether, in response to a public records request, it should release 
documents protected by the attorney-client privilege); OML 2015-99. Furthermore, it is clear that 
the Chair believed the public records request was a matter within the Board’s jurisdiction, at least 
to some degree, as he felt it necessary to bring the memo to the Board’s attention during a 
meeting.  
 
Finally, the Board asserts that “the [memo] was not introduced by the Chair for 
discussion purposes, but was read only to make sure [Board] members were in receipt of the 
[memo] and aware of their obligation to respond.” Additionally, the Board notes that “[n]o 
substantive discussion as to the content of the [memo] took place.” Here, we agree. The Chair 
read the Town Administrator’s memo aloud, almost verbatim, making sure the Board members 
we aware of the public records request and the timeframe to respond. Thereafter, the 
Complainant commented that the memo had not been included on the meeting notice and that 
she felt the memo was read aloud to harass her. Aside from the Complainant’s comments, there 
was no other discussion of the memo and no discussion of the public records request at all. No 
Board member, including the Chair, shared any comments or asked any questions about the 
memo or the public records request. When reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is 
clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review the notice standing alone. See OML 2015-21; 
OML 2014-155. Rather, we review what was discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice 
was sufficiently detailed. See OML 2015-101. Where a public body does not actually engage in 
any deliberation on a particular topic, it cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to 
whether that particular topic should have been included on the meeting notice. See OML 2017-
33 (finding that announcements made during a meeting that were generally spontaneous and not 
pieces of business that board members anticipated discussing did not need to be included on the 
meeting notice); OML 2019-94 (finding no violation when a meeting notice included the topic 
“Discussion of Legal Settlements” without identifying any particular legal matters, but the 
committee merely heard a report from the superintendent and did not engage in any discussion);  
see also OML 2021-19.    
 
Although not raised in the complaint, we note that the Board’s August 20 meeting was 
not accessible to the public as required by the Open Meeting Law. The meeting was held in 
person at the Halifax Town Hall. At the beginning of the meeting the Chair announced that the 
Board was “limited to 12 people in the room.” At various times during the meeting, the Chair 
asked for volunteers to leave the meeting room when there were more than 12 people present, 
and told a member of the public that they could not enter the meeting room because of the 
number of people already present in the room. During one exchange a member of the public 
explained that she had a right to be present at the meeting; she was allowed into the meeting 
room only once two other individuals voluntarily left the room.     
 
At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement that meetings of public bodies be 
open and accessible to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except when meeting in executive 
session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”). Generally, access to a 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and hear what is 
being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54.  
 
On March 12, Governor Baker issued an executive order temporarily suspending certain 
provisions of the Open Meeting Law during the state of emergency. See Order Suspending 
Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive 
Order”). The Executive Order temporarily suspends the requirement that a public body hold its 
meetings in locations that are physically accessible to the public only if the public body provides 
“adequate, alternative means of public access” that enable the public to follow the proceedings in 
real time through the use of telephone, internet, or satellite enabled audio or video conferencing 
or other technology. See Executive Order at § (1).4 A public body may conduct hybrid meetings 
where members of the public body attend the meeting in person and the general public is 
required to attend remotely via adequate, alternative means of access. See OML 2020-100. If 
access to the meeting will be provided through “adequate, alternative means,” the meeting notice 
must include clear instructions for accessing the meeting remotely. See OML 2020-102.  
 
Here, the notice for the August 20 meeting identified the location of the meeting as 
“Great Hall (2nd Floor) at Halifax Town Hall, 499 Plymouth Street, Halifax, MA”; the notice did 
not identify any means of adequate, alternative access. Thus, the Board chose not to take 
advantage of the relief provided by the Executive Order, and held its August 20 meeting in a 
location with a strict capacity limit. In doing so, the Board denied members of the public access 
to its meeting. Although we appreciate that the Board was motivated by public safety concerns 
due to the 2019 novel Coronavirus outbreak when it limited the number of people who could be 
present in the meeting room on August 20, the Board should have held its meeting in a location 
that could safely accommodate a larger group, or should have provided access to the meeting via 
adequate, alternative means. We remind the Board that even during the pandemic, its meetings 
must be open and accessible to the public.  
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting as 
alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
4 See also The Attorney General’s Updated Guidance on Holding Meetings During the COVID-19 State of 
Emergency, updated June 2, 2020, is available here: https://www mass.gov/service-details/updated-guidance-on-
holdingmeetings-during-the-covid-19-state-of-emergency. 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
 
 
cc: Alan Dias, Chair of the Halifax Planning Board (via email:   
 Amy Troup (via email: ) 
   
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
