===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
July 6, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 90 
 
 
Michael J. Maccaro, Esq. 
Murphy Hesse Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410  
Quincy, MA 02169 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Maccaro: 
 
This office received a complaint from Stan Wysocki on January 5, 2021, alleging that the 
Nashoba Regional School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about November 
20, 2020, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated 
December 15, 2020.  The complaint alleges that the Committee deliberated outside of a properly 
posted meeting when it drafted and sent a letter to the Select Boards of the three towns that 
comprise the Nashoba Regional School District.1  
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  We resolve this 
matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), after reviewing the 
original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed with our 
office requesting further review, a video recording of the Tri-Town meeting held on October 14, 
2020, the November 12, 2020, letter sent by the Committee, and the minutes of the Committee 
meeting held on December 16, 2020.2  In addition, we spoke with the complainant by telephone 
on May 10, 2021.  We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the way 
alleged.     
 
1 The three communities that comprise the Nashoba Regional School District are Bolton, Lancaster and Stow.  The 
complainant is a member of the Bolton Select Board. 
2 A video recording of the October 14, 2020, Tri-Town meeting is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0oVvacQhBww. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting 
Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  
 
On November 12, 2020, the Committee sent a letter to the Select Board members of 
Bolton, Lancaster and Stow regarding the purpose and structure of Tri-Town meetings.  Tri-
Town meetings are traditionally a meeting of the Select Boards of the three communities in the 
Nashoba Regional School District, although members of the Committee often attend.  
Discussions during Tri-Town meetings generally focus on activities in each town, as well as 
issues relating to the school district and school budget.  During a Tri-Town meeting held on 
October 14, 2020, Select Board members from Bolton and Lancaster questioned Committee 
Chair Kathy Codianne and Superintendent Brooke Clenchy about remote versus hybrid learning 
and the lack of communication from the Committee on its plan for returning children to in-
person learning.  These discussions lasted approximately two hours and became heated towards 
the end.  Thereafter, Chair Codianne drafted the letter regarding Tri-Town meetings which she 
shared with all members of the Committee via Google Docs.  Through Google Docs, members 
edited and signed the letter, which was then sent, on Committee letterhead, to the Select Boards 
of Bolton, Lancaster and Stow.   
 
The Committee admits that a quorum of members communicated outside of a meeting 
when they shared their opinions and edited the draft letter.  However, the Committee argues that 
“the topic of the letter was not a matter within its jurisdiction” for purposes of the Open Meeting 
Law.  We therefore consider whether the matter discussed in the November 12, 2020, letter 
indeed falls within the Committee’s charge.  We have found in previous determination letters 
that a discussion was outside a body's jurisdiction where it concerned purely interpersonal 
dynamics, see OML 2011- 38; a completed decision over which the body had no further 
authority, see OML 2017-88; and political statements on matters not likely to come before the 
body, see OML 2014-135.3  We have also determined that a topic falls outside the scope of a 
body’s jurisdiction where: (i) it does not involve the public body's exercise of governmental 
business, policy, or administration; (ii) it relates to personal matters, such as the safety and well-
being of public body members and/or their families; and (iii) collective action by the body, such 
as taking a vote, is not anticipated on the topic.  See OML 2018-1. 
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Although this is a close call, we find that the communication is not within the 
Committee’s jurisdiction where the content of the November 12, 2020, letter simply suggested 
ways to restructure Tri-Town meetings.  Because Tri-Town meetings are not meetings of the 
Committee, the Committee’s suggestions on how to conduct future meetings did not involve 
matters that were presently or likely to come under consideration by the Committee nor one in 
which the Committee would take collective action.  Compare OML 2017-91 (discussion of a 
public body’s operation is public business within the body’s jurisdiction).  Therefore, we find 
that the communication at issue here fell outside the Committee's jurisdiction and the Committee 
did not deliberate outside of a properly posted meeting.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Stan Wysocki – By email only:  
 Nashoba Regional School Committee – By email only:  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
