===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 12, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 59 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Amy Smith 
Chair, Georgetown Board of Selectmen 
ASmith@georgetownma.gov 
 
Rebecca Chane 
Chair, Georgetown Conservation Commission 
rchane@georgetownma.gov 
 
 
 RE: Op
 en Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chairs Smith and Chane: 
 
This office received two complaints from Kevin Wood, on November 10 and 12, 2023,
1 
that collectively allege that the Georgetown Board of Selectmen (the “Board”)—and specifically 
its chair, Amy Smith—and the Georgetown Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The first complaint was filed with the 
Board on or about October 23, and Chair Smith responded on behalf of the Board by email on 
November 10. The second complaint was filed with the Commission on or about October 23. 
The Commission did not respond.
2 Together, the complaints allege that the notice for a joint 
meeting of the Board and Commission held on October 23 included insufficiently specific topics 
and that the Board and Commission discussed topics that were not included on the notice.
3  
 
 
1 All dates are in 2023 unless otherwise stated. 
2 We remind the Commission of its obligation to comply with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, including 
the requirement to review and respond to Open Meeting Law complaints within 14 business days. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  
3 To the extent the complainant asserts additional alleged violations in further communications with our office, we 
decline to review these allegations because they were not raised in an original Open Meeting Law complaint filed 
with the Board or Commission. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05; OML 2018-109; OML 2019-1. Open 
Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board and the Commission violated the Open 
Meeting Law by including insufficiently specific topics on the notice for the October 23 meeting. 
In reaching this determination we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the Board’s 
response, the requests for further review, the notice for and recording of the October 23 meeting, 
and a recording of the Board’s August 28 meeting.4 We also reviewed an email exchange 
between the Complainant and Chair Smith on the day of the October 23 meeting.  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On August 28 the Board held a meeting during which 
it discussed complaints and concerns regarding Carl Shreder, then-chair of the Commission. 
During the meeting issues were raised concerning how the Board and the Commission work 
together, communicate with each other, and treat each other. During the discussion it was 
suggested that the Board and the Commission hold a joint meeting to discuss these issues and 
that the bodies seek a third-party to assist in this effort. Ultimately, the Board decided it would 
hold a joint meeting with the Commission to discuss communications, administrative processes, 
staffing, and related issues.  
 
On October 19 notice was posted for a joint meeting of the Board and Commission to be 
held on October 23. The notice read as follows: 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  
PUBLIC COMMENT:  
VOTES BY THE BOARD AND COMMISSION:  
 
• Approval of agenda topics.  
 
• Approval of moderator.  
 
NEXT MEETING DATE:  
 
• TBD 
 
 During the October 23 meeting, which lasted for approximately one hour, the Board and 
the Commission discussed the process for hiring a moderator to assist the bodies at their future 
joint meetings and discussed a particular individual as a potential moderator. The bodies also 
discussed at length what issues the bodies needed to address in an effort to determine topics for 
future meetings. This discussion was wide-ranging and the bodies did not strictly confine the 
discussions to simply identifying future notice topics, but rather substantively discussed issues at 
times, such as hiring a new agent. Ultimately, the bodies settled on a plan for how to move 
forward with finding a moderator and on a list of potential topics for future meetings.  
 
 
 
 
4 A video recording of the August 28 meeting may be found at http://gctv.georgetownma.gov/show/7659. A video 
recording of the October 23 meeting may be found at http://gctv.georgetownma.gov/show/7697. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that notice be posted of every meeting of a public body.  
G.L. c
. 30A, § 20(b). Meeting notices must include, among other things, a list of the topics that 
the chair, and any other individual authorized to create the notice, reasonably anticipates, 48 
hours in advance of the meeting, will be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 
OML 2022-206; OML 2020-152. The topics for discussion must be listed with “sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b). A public body need not list each and every detail about a notice topic, nor 
anticipate on the notice the course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion. See OML 
2022-98; OML 2020-132; OML 2019-134. However, notice topics must be described with 
sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting 
so that the public can make an informed decision about whether to attend the meeting in order to 
observe an anticipated discussion. See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22; OML 
2015-74. When reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its 
face, we do not review a meeting notice standing alone. See OML 2015-21; OML 2014-155. 
Rather, we review what was actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was 
sufficiently detailed to make the public aware of the nature of the anticipated topics for 
discussion.  
 
Aft
er reviewing the notice and recording of the October 23 meeting, we find that the 
Board and the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by including insufficiently specific 
topics on the meeting notice. Although we appreciate that the Board and Commission likely 
anticipated a wide-ranging discussion during which the bodies would choose topics to discuss 
substantively at a future meeting, there was a specific overarching purpose for the October 23 
meeting—to discuss hiring a moderator to assist the bodies as they worked to improve their 
working relationship and to choose discussion topics for future meetings to advance this work 
and address concerns related to communications, administrative processes, staffing, and other 
issues. We find that the notice topics “Approval of agenda topics” and “Approval of moderator,” 
without any additional information, were insufficient to inform the public of the anticipated 
nature of the discussions. See OML 2024-32; OML 2022-174.
5  
 
Next, we must determine whether, as t
 he Complainant urges, the Board intentionally 
violated the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or 
omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting 
Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with 
deliberate ignorance of the Law’s requirements or has previously been advised that certain 
conduct violates the Open Meeting Law. Id.  
 
Our office has not previously warned the Board against the violation found here. In 
support of his assertion that the violation was intentional, the Complainant cites to an email 
 
5 With respect to the complaints’ allegation that the bodies discussed specific topics that were not included on the 
meeting notice, after reviewing the video recording of the October 23 meeting, we find that the specific topics 
identified in the complaints naturally flowed from discussion of the insufficient notice topic “Approval of agenda 
topics,” or appear to have been unanticipated. See OML 2023-114. Because we find that the broader notice topic 
“Approval of agenda topics” was insufficient, we do not separately address the specific issues discussed under this 
topic.     
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
exchange he had with Chair Smith on the day of the October 23 meeting in which the 
Complainant expressed concern that the notice topic “Approval of agenda topics” was 
insufficiently specific. In the email exchange, Chair Smith explained that the overarching goal of 
the anticipated meetings between the Board and the Commission was “to attempt to repair the 
relationship between the Select Board and the Conservation Commission,” and noted that the 
purpose of the meeting that evening was for the bodies to agree on “the topics that we need to 
discuss to try and meet that goal.” Chair Smith also stated that she believed it would have been 
helpful if the topic “Agree on agenda topics” had instead read “Agree on agenda topics for the 
next joint meeting.” (emphasis in original). Although we appreciate that, prior to the meeting, 
the Complainant attempted to warn the Board that he believed the notice topic was insufficient, 
and although we ultimately agree with the Complainant’s assessment that the notice was 
insufficient, we find that the emails exchanged between the Complainant and Chair Smith do not 
support a finding that the Board acted to intentionally violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board and the Commission violated the 
Open Meeting Law by including insufficiently specific topics on the notice for the October 23 
meeting. We order the Board’s and Commission’s immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law.  
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board, the 
Commission, or our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Jared M. Collins, Esq., KP Law  (via email: JCollins@k-plaw.com)  
Kerri McManus, Town Clerk (via email: kmcmanus@georgetownma.gov)  
Kevin Wood (via email: ) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
