===PAGE 1===
     
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
December 27, 2011 
OML 2011 - 56 
Lauren F. Goldberg 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Goldberg: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Paul Johnson, dated May 25, 2011, alleging 
that the Carver Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that "[o]n March 29, 2011 the Carver Board of 
Selectmen, in executive session, voted to approve a contract for Town Administrator Richard 
LaFond. The contract was announced to the public on April 12, 2011 at a Selectmen's 
meeting...No vote has ever been taken in open session regarding this contract in violation of the 
open meeting law." Mr. Johnson initially filed a complaint with the Board on April 22, 2011. 
Your response to the original complaint, on behalf of the Board, was received by this office on 
June 13, 2011. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in several 
ways. First, the Board's March 29, 2011 meeting notice failed to provide sufficient specificity 
about the anticipated executive session topic. Second, while the Board entered executive session 
for a lawful purpose on March 29, 2011, the Chairman failed to state the purpose with sufficient 
specificity in open session prior to entering executive session. Finally, the Board failed to 
approve the Town Administrator's contract in open session. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the April 22, 2011 and May 25, 2011 
complaints, your June 13, 2011 response on behalf of the Board, and two e-mails from the 
complainant to this office, dated June 20, 2011 and July 7, 2011. We also reviewed the Board's 
March 29, 2011 meeting notice, the minutes from the Board's March 29, 2011 and April 12, 
2011 meetings, and the March 29, 2011 executive session minutes. 
1 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
At some point prior to March 2011, the Board began to consider a new contract for Town 
Administrator Richard LaFond. The Chairman distributed to the Board "a survey of twenty 
towns" to conduct a salary comparison of Town Administrators. According to the Board's April 
12, 2011 meeting minutes, at that time Mr. LaFond had "not had [a salary] increase in the past 
five years, and only received a couple of [Cost of Living Adjustments] during that time." 
On March 29, 2011, the Board convened a meeting in open session. The Board's 
meeting notice listed "Executive Session — Conduct bargaining with non-union personnel" as the 
final agenda item. According to the March 29, 2011 minutes, the Board voted by roll call "to go 
into Executive Session under the [Open Meeting Law] for the purposes of conducting bargaining 
with non-union personnel and not to return to Open Session." Specifically, the Board met in 
executive session to negotiate and approve a new contract for the Town Administrator. 
The Board entered executive session at its March 29, 2011 meeting. After debating the 
compensation provision of the new contract and voting to approve the final proposal, the Board 
called in Mr. LaFond. The executive session minutes state that Mr. LaFond then "accepted the 
proposed contract and thanked the Board." Consistent with its prior vote, the Board did not 
reconvene in open session. 
At the Board's next open session meeting on April 12, 2011, Chairman Casey 
"announced that a new contract was signed with the Town Administrator...The contract is for 
five years. In the first year of the contract LaFond will receive an increase to $112,000 with 2% 
increases for the remaining four years, in addition to [Cost of Living Adjustments] that the non-
union personnel receive." 
Mr. Johnson's May 25, 2011 complaint alleges that "[n]o vote has ever been taken in 
open session regarding this contract in violation of the open meeting law." Your response on 
behalf of the Board contends that "the Board is specifically authorized to both strategize and 
conduct negotiations with non-union personnel, including voting to approve a contract, making 
an offer to the employee, and agreeing to the contract, in executive session." Further, you assert 
that "the Board has not taken any remedial action in response to the complaint since it believes 
that no violation of the Open Meeting Law has occurred." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that "all meetings of a public body shall be open to the 
public" unless allowed by executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). The law's purpose is "to 
eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding deliberations and decisions on which public policy is 
based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge,  376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law also 
requires that all meeting notices "shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and 
shall contain the date, time, and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Furthermore, the 
Attorney General's Open Meeting Law regulations require a meeting notice to list those topics 
2 
===PAGE 3===
with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03. In general, this level of detail applies equally to open session and 
executive session topics listed on a meeting notice. However, given the sensitive nature of 
executive session topics, it may be reasonable at times for a public body to withhold details that 
may compromise the purpose for entering executive session. 
Although not specifically raised by the complainant, we find that the Board's March 29, 
2011 meeting notice was not sufficiently specific to advise the public of the topics the Board 
planned to discuss in executive session. The Board's March 29, 2011 meeting notice lists only 
"Executive Session — Conduct bargaining with non-union personnel." This notice fails the 
requirement that the Board list topics with "sufficient specificity." Id. The meeting notice 
should have specifically stated the Board's intent to meet in executive session to conduct 
bargaining with the Town Administrator. Providing the public with this additional information 
would not have compromised the Board's purpose for entering executive session, particularly 
because Mr. LaFond was aware of the session and had been invited to attend the bargaining 
portion of the meeting. This level of detail would have put any interested member of the public 
on notice that there was a specific member of "non-union personnel" with whom the Board was 
bargaining. 
In addition to posting proper notice of the executive session, the Open Meeting Law 
requires that "before the executive session, the chair shall state the purpose for the executive 
session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). See also District Attorney for  
Northern Dist. v. School Committee of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (Mass. 2009) ("[a] precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting 
law because that is the only notification given to the public that the school committee would 
conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so 
was proper or improper"). 
We find that the Board failed this requirement as well. According to the March 29, 2011 
Selectmen's Meeting minutes, the Board approved by roll call vote a motion to "go into 
Executive Session under M.G.L. Chapter 39, Section 23B for the purposes of conducting 
bargaining with non-union personnel and not to return to Open Session." In your response, you 
acknowledge that the Board erred in citing the previous version of the law. Regardless, the 
statement of the executive session purpose was not sufficiently precise because it did not identify 
the party with whom the Board planned to negotiate. The Chairman should have announced in 
open session that the purpose for the executive session was to conduct contract negotiations with 
the Town Administrator. 
Based on our review of the executive session minutes detailing the contract deliberations 
and negotiations, the Board entered executive session for a lawful purpose, specifically "[t]o 
conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct 
collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(2). While the Board had proper authority under Purpose 2 to strategize and negotiate with 
the Town Administrator in executive session, the scope of the purpose is limited to the 
discussions, negotiations, and deliberations that occur prior to a vote on a contract. The Open 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Meeting Law does not permit the Board to approve a contract behind closed doors where the 
public cannot witness the agreement. The Board should have reconvened in open session to 
approve or ratify the contract terms agreed to in the executive session. Alternatively, the Board 
could have waited until the offer was reduced to writing to approve the written document at a 
subsequent open session. However, the Board chose to vote on and agree to the contract in 
closed session and withhold it from the public until the next open session two weeks later. 
CONCLUSION 
The Board violated the Open Meeting Law in three separate ways. First, the Board's 
March 29, 2011 meeting notice failed to provide sufficient specificity about the anticipated 
executive session topic. Second, while the Board entered executive session for a lawful purpose 
on March 29, 2011, the Chairman failed to state the purpose with sufficient specificity in open 
session prior to entering executive session. Finally, the Board failed to approve or ratify the 
contract in open session. 
We hereby order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law. The Board did not have the benefit of our decision in OML 2011-28 1  at the time of this 
meeting, therefore we decline to take the further remedial action requested by the complainant, 
namely nullifying the action taken by the Board in approving the Town Administrator's contract. 
While we do not order nullification, in the interest of transparency, we strongly recommend that 
the Board reconsider its vote on the contract during an open session meeting. In addition, we 
caution the Board that future similar violations may result in nullification of any action taken. 
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this letter, 
please do not hesitate to contact me at the number below. 
Sincerely, 
onathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
cc: Paul Johnson 
1 OML 2011-28 found that a school committee violated the Open Meeting Law by, amongst other things, agreeing 
to a contract addendum during an executive session and failing to subsequently ratify that agreement in open 
session. 
4 