===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 14, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 218 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Samantha Vasques, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
sam@mtclawyers.com  
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Vasques: 
 
This office received two complaints—one from Chris Menard on April 1, 2024,
1 and one 
from Karin Menard2 on April 10—alleging that the Lunenburg Historical Commission (the 
“Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Both complaints were 
originally filed with the Commission on or about March 8, and you responded on behalf of the 
Commission by letters dated April 24 and 26.
3 The complaints allege that notices for the 
Commission’s February 8 and March 7 meetings included insufficiently specific topics. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the 
Commission’s responses, and the requests for further review. We also reviewed the notices and 
minutes for the February 8 and March 7 meetings. 
 
  
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 Karin Menard is a member of the Lunenburg Parks Commission, although did not file the Open Meeting Law 
complaint in this capacity. 
3 We note that the Commission did not respond to either complaint within 14 business days, as required by the Open 
Meeting Law, nor did the Commission request an extension of time from our office to respond to the complaints. 
We remind the Commission of its obligation to comply with all requirements of the Open Meeting Law, including 
the requirement to review and respond to a complaint within 14 business days. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Commission posted notice for a meeting to be 
held on February 8. Included on the notice, under the heading “Old Business,” was the topic 
“Marshall Park underground rooms.” During the February 8 meeting, the Commission discussed, 
among other things, a man-made “cave” located in Marshall Park in Lunenburg. Discussion of 
the cave related to a project spearheaded by the Lunenburg Parks Commission to update 
Marshall Park. Specifically, the Commission discussed that the cave had been deemed 
historically significant such that demolition of the cave should be delayed. In addition to 
questions from members of the Parks Commission and comments from a member of the public, 
the Commission discussed that the Massachusetts Historical Commission had recommended that 
the entire park be designated a historical site. The Commission explained that it planned to 
include the entire park in a survey of town sites of importance, and that if the Parks Commission 
wanted to demolish the cave it would need to submit a demolition application. Finally, the 
Commission noted that the cave may not been shown on the Parks Commission’s schematics for 
the proposed project and that this would need to be addressed. 
 
The Commission posted notice for a meeting to be held on March 7. Included on the 
notice, under the heading “Old Business,” were the following topics:  
 
- Marshall Park 
- Town Survey of houses on the 19th Century Cyrus Kilburn map grant application 
- Home Town Heroes Banners 
- Goodrich Cemetery 
- CPA 
 
Relevant here, during the March 7 meeting, the Commission discussed that it received 
correspondence from the Cemetery Commission asking to meet with the chair of the 
Commission to discuss the status of two cemeteries. With respect to Marshall Park, the 
Commission received a presentation from a member of the public regarding the cave and later 
discussed that the Commission would send a letter to the Town Manager informing the Town 
Manager that the cave should be deemed a historic site. Finally, the Commission discussed how 
neighboring towns use Community Preservation Act funds and the Commission’s plan to discuss 
the Community Preservation Act with other town public bodies, including the Select Board.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies “post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours pr
ior to the meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). The notice must include the date, time, and place of the meeting, as well as a list of 
topics that the chair, and any other individual authorized to create the notice, reasonably 
anticipates, 48 hours in advance of the meeting, will be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2022-206; OML 2020-152.4 Public bodies must list topics for discussion 
with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
meeting,” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b); however, the notice n eed not list all tangential issues related to 
a particular topic. See OML 2024-79; OML 2021-114; OML 2016-120. We generally consider a 
topic to include sufficient specificity when a member of the public can read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2012-83. When 
reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not 
review a meeting notice standing alone. See OML 2015-21; OML 2014-155. Rather, we review 
what was discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently specific. See OML 
2015-101. Finally, we advise public bodies to avoid using abbreviations or acronyms on notices, 
particularly where the acronym used is not widely understood by members of the public. See 
OML 2015-154.  
 
The c
omplaint concerning the notice for the February 8 meeting alleges that the topic 
“Marshall Park underground rooms” was insufficiently specific where it did not inform the 
public that the Commission would discuss whether the cave was a historical feature requiring a 
demolition delay. The complaint also notes that the feature is locally known as a “cave,” not 
“underground rooms,” and that the Commission discussed Marshall Park as a whole without 
including the park as a topic on the notice. The complaint regarding the notice for the March 7 
meeting alleges that the notice topics “Marshall Park” “Goodrich Cemetery” and “CPA” were 
insufficiently specific where they did not indicate what would be discussed with respect to 
Marshall Park or the Goodrich Cemetery and where it was unclear what the acronym “CPA” 
meant.  
 
The Commission asserts that the fact that an individual is confused about a notice topic 
does not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law and cites to OML 2015-35 in support of 
this assertion. In OML 2015-35 this office found the notice topic “Bridge Street Sidewalks” 
sufficiently specific to inform the public that the Chatham Board of Selectmen would discuss 
installing a sidewalk on Bridge Street. In the determination we explained that we understood the 
source of the complainant’s confusion with respect to this topic as the board had previously 
voted not to install a sidewalk on Bridge Street. However, despite the complainant’s expectations 
with respect to the topic, the topic was sufficient where it “informed the public that the Board 
would be considering a sidewalk along Bridge Street, and that is in fact what they discussed 
during the meeting.” OML 2015-35.  
 
The Commission additionally asserts that although it may have been helpful for the 
February 8 notice to include the word “cave,” the reference to “underground rooms” did not 
render the notice insufficient. Likewise, the Commission asserts that although it may have been 
helpful for the March 7 notice to include additional information with respect to the acronym 
“CPA,” the use of the acronym did not render the notice insufficient. Finally, the Commission 
asserts that the topic “Marshall Park underground rooms” was sufficient to inform the public that 
the Commission would discuss Marshall Park generally.  
 
We find the facts of OML 2015-35 distinguishable from the facts before us in the instant 
matters. The notice topic at issue in OML 2015-35 informed the public not just that Bridge Street 
would be discussed but that a sidewalk on Bridge Street would be discussed. The notice topics 
before us here informed the public only that a specific park, cemetery, and statute would be 
discussed; they did not inform the public of the specific issues to be discussed. The notice topics 
at issue here are instead similar to the topic at issue in OML 2023-182. In OML 2023-182 we 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
found the notice topic “101 Monponsett Street” insufficient where it “failed to include any detail 
as t
o the specific type of plan or permit under consideration with respect to this property such 
that a reasonable member of the public could determine the anticipated nature of the Board’s 
discussion.” OML 2023-182; see also OML 2024-43 (finding the topics “252 Rowley Bridge Rd 
- Public Hearing Continued,” “202 Boston St. - Public Hearing,” and “10 High St. - Public 
Hearing” insufficiently specific where they did not identify the nature of the issues to be 
discussed during each hearing, namely, noise restrictions, overnight camping, and an affordable 
housing development); OML 2023-100 (finding the topic “Annual Town Election – Ballot 
Questions Results - Authorize ARPA Expenditure” insufficiently specific where it did not 
indicate that the public body would consider the demolition of the old town hall building); OML 
2012-52 (finding the topic “CPA proposal” insufficiently specific where it did not identify the 
specific property to be discussed). We find that the notice topics with respect to Marshall Park, 
the Marshall Park cave, the Goodrich Cemetery, and the Community Preservation Act, were 
insufficiently specific, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.
5  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We order the Commission’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, and caution that future similar conduct may be considered evidence of an intent to 
violate the Law. Because the minutes of the February 8 and March 7 meetings have been posted 
online to the Town’s municipal website, we do not order further remedial action.  
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Commission 
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
5 Because we find the topics “Marshall Park underground rooms” and “CPA” insufficient where they did not include 
any detail informing the public of the anticipated nature of the discussion with respect to the cave or the Community 
Preservation Act, we do not also address whether reference to “underground rooms” and “CPA” further rendered the 
notices insufficient. However, we note that the Commission itself appears to refer to the Marshall Park feature as a 
cave and we encourage the Commission to use consistent language when referring to the same subject. Additionally, 
we note that although the acronym “CPA” may be meaningful to the Commission and individuals familiar with the 
regular business of the Commission, it is not an acronym widely understood by members of the public and should 
not be used. Compare OML 2015-197 (finding that use of the acronym “TRRP” rendered a meeting notice topic 
insufficiently specific), with OML 2015-172 (finding that the acronym “FAA” is commonly used and generally 
understood by the public). 
 

===PAGE 5===
CC:
Richard McGrath, Chair, Lunenburg Historical Commission
(via email: rmcgrath@lunenburgma.gov)
Kathryn Herrick, Lunenburg Town Clerk (via email: kherrick@lunenburgma.gov)
Karın Menard (via email:
Chris Menard (via email:
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.