===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
        
March 22, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 38 
 
 
Elizabeth Lydon, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite 1F 
Millis, MA 02054 
 
By email only: liz@mtclawyers.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Lydon: 
 
This office received a complaint from Allison Sloan on July 25, 2022, alleging that the 
Middleton Flint Library Board of Trustees (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about June 21, and you 
responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated July 20, following an 
extension of time granted by this office.  The complaint alleges that the Board deliberated 
outside of a properly posted meeting. 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we resolved this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  In addition, we reviewed the notice 
and open session minutes of the Board meeting held on June 13, as well as a video recording of 
that meeting,
2 and the executive session minutes of the Board meeting held on July 12. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board is a five-member public body; thus, three 
members constitute a quorum.  The complainant is a member of the Board. 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2022. 
2 A video recording of the Board meeting held on June 13 is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v-
61hRtF2jA. 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
On April 10, Board member Donna Bambury sent an email to all Board members 
suggesting that the Board have a party for outgoing Board Chair Melissa Stankus after the 
Board’s meeting on May 9 and asked for contributions towards a gift certificate.  On April 11, 
Board member George Cumming responded only to Ms. Bambury stating that he would 
contribute money towards a gift certificate.  He then asked Ms. Bambury “Are you going to run 
for chairperson of the board?”  Ms. Bambury responded to Mr. Cumming stating “I really didn’t 
want to be the chair, but the alternative would be a disaster.  I am discussing it with Melissa.  She 
said that Erin Bennet was willing, but unfortunately there is no guarantee she will be elected.  So 
more than likely I will.”  At the time of these email communications, Erin Bennet was not yet a 
member of the Board.  Rather, she was elected to the Board on May 17. 
 
 The Board held a meeting on June 13 and discussed reorganizing.
3  Ms. Bambury began 
the discussion by requesting nominations for the three offices – Chair, Vice Chair/Secretary, and 
Treasurer.  The complainant nominated member Maria Paikos-Hantzis for Chair while Ms. 
Bambury nominated herself.  The Board elected Ms. Bambury as Chair by majority vote.  The 
complainant then nominated Ms. Paikos-Hantzis for Vice Chair/Secretary while Ms. Bambury 
nominated newly elected member Erin Bennet.  The Board elected Ms. Bennet as Vice 
Chair/Secretary by majority vote.  Board member George Cumming nominated himself for 
Treasurer and the Board elected Mr. Cumming by majority vote.  The complainant expressed her 
concern that Ms. Bennet was not qualified to fulfill the role of Vice Chair/Secretary as she was a 
new member of the Board; the complainant then left the meeting.  The Board continued the 
meeting and discussed the remaining noticed topics. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is 
a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  
 
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board deliberated prior to the June 13 
meeting and discussed the Board’s reorganization.  We find that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by communicating in a serial fashion via email.  By email dated April 11, Mr. 
 
3 We note that the notice posted for the June 13 meeting did not include a topic for reorganization.  We remind the 
Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to 
such meeting and include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  A public body may discuss a topic not listed on 
a meeting notice if the topic was not reasonably anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting.  See  
OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87.  Nevertheless, the public body is encouraged to amend its meeting notice to include 
the unanticipated topic and provide the public with as much notice as possible of the topics to be discussed during a 
meeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Cumming asked Ms. Bambury whether she planned “to run” for Chair of the Board.  Ms. 
Bambury responded that same day and said “more than likely” she would.  Ms. Bambury then 
shared with Mr. Cumming a conversation she had with then Board Chair Melissa Stankus who 
had told Ms. Bambury that another individual might be interested in becoming chair.
4  Although 
the April 11 email communications appear to be between only two members of the Board, a 
subquorum, we find that the communications reached a quorum when Ms. Bambury shared with 
Mr. Cumming her conversation with Ms. Stankus about the chair leadership position.  A public 
body may not engage in a serial communication whereby a quorum communicates in a non-
contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a particular subject matter within the public 
body’s jurisdiction.  See OML 2015-3; OML 2012-84; OML 2011-27; McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 
Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that private serial communications violate the spirit of the 
Open Meeting Law and may not be used to circumvent the intent of the Law).  Discussions 
concerning the leadership of the Board is a matter within the Board’s jurisdiction and is precisely 
the type of deliberation that the Open Meeting Law requires be conducted in an open and 
accessible manner.  See OML 2018-6; OML 2015-3; OML 2014-108.  Therefore, because a 
quorum of the Board communicated in a serial manner outside of a noticed meeting and 
discussed the leadership of the Board, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
In her request for further review, the complainant alleges that the Board failed to 
disseminate the Open Meeting Law complaint at issue here to Board members, voted by secret 
ballot, and engaged in uncivil behavior.  We generally decline to review an allegation that was 
not included within the original complaint to the Board because the Board has not had an 
opportunity to respond to it.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3).  We find that these 
allegations were not clearly raised in the original complaint and thus we do not review their 
merits.  However, we take this opportunity to remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law 
requires that within 14 days of receipt of a complaint, the public body review the complaint’s 
allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the 
complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L.  c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 
29.05(5).  A public body must meet to review the complaint and formulate a response, or meet to 
delegate that authority, and respond to the complaint within 14 business days.  See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(b); OML 2017-69; OML 2012-90.  Upon the filing of an Open Meeting Law complaint 
with a public body, the chair “shall disseminate copies of the complaint to the members of the 
public body.”  940 CMR 29.05(3).  The purpose of this requirement is to make sure all members 
of the public body are aware of the allegations in the complaint.  See OML 2016-88.  Moreover, 
we instruct the Board that the Open Meeting Law specifically prohibits votes taken by secret 
ballot.  See G.L. c. 30A, 22; OML 2015-145.  Finally, an allegation of unprofessional conduct or 
incivility towards members of the Board does not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting 
Law.  See OML Declination 6-14-16 (Sterling Board of Selectmen).  Nevertheless, our office 
encourages civility during meetings of public bodies. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating via email and we order the Board to publicly release the emails within 30 days of 
 
4 We note that the emails were provided to the complainant in response to a public records request.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
receipt of this determination to the extent it has not already done so.5  In addition, we order 
immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future 
violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.    
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Allison Sloan – By email only:  
 Middleton Flint Library Board of Trustees – By email only: trustees@flintpublib.org 
 Middleton Town  Clerk – By email only: ilene.twiss@middletonma.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
5 The Board may publicly release the emails by reading their content during a meeting and listing the emails in the 
meeting minutes, or by referencing the emails during a meeting and posting the emails along with the minutes on the 
municipal website.  
 
