===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
        
November 18, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 198 
 
 
Timothy P. Houten 
City Attorney 
200 Common Street  
Lawrence, MA 01840 
 
By email only: thouten@cityoflawrence.com 
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Houten: 
 
This office received a complaint from Thomas Duggan on July 8, 2025, alleging that the 
Lawrence City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about June 29, 2025, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Council, to the complaint by letter dated July 8, 2025.  The 
complaint alleges that a quorum of the Council deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting 
to draft a statement regarding budget and tax implications for fiscal year 2026.  
 
 Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Council’s 
response to the complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the 
notice and video recording of the City Council meeting held on July 7, 2025.
1   
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
beration and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
 
1 A video recording of the July 7, 2025, Council meeting is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jep9qNBaGho.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The
 law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may 
be discussed at a meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For the 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public 
body.  Id.   
 
The Council is a nine-member public body; thus, five members constitute a quorum.  On 
June 27, 2025, five City Councilors issued a statement expressing concerns regarding the 
Mayor’s proposed fiscal year 2026 operational budget and the tax implications of that proposed 
budget.   
 
The complaint alleges that 
 a quorum of the Council deliberated outside of a properly 
posted meeting to draft the statement.  In its response to the complaint, the Council does not 
deny that a quorum of the Council deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting, and we find 
that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law.  The Council contends that because the 
statement was read in its entirety during the July 7, 2025, open meeting, this “action effectively 
placed all such statements in an open meeting forum.”  We disagree.  Here, the Council’s reading 
of a previously released public statement during the July 7, 2025, open meeting did not 
sufficiently remedy the violation.  The Council must take the additional step of publicly releasing 
any communications that occurred between and among the five Councilors outside of a properly 
posted meeting where the Councilors discussed the preparation of the statement.  Compare OML 
2013-17 (finding that a public body did not cure the violation of deliberation via email because it 
had not publicly released the deliberative emails), with OML 2013-69 (finding that a public body 
cured the violation of deliberation outside of a meeting by disclosing in detail the substance of 
the improper deliberation), and OML 2011-35 (finding that release of the deliberative email, 
along with other steps taken, constituted proper remedial action).
2 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law 
when a quorum of members deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting.  We order the 
Council’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that 
similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  In addition, 
we order the Council to disclose, within thirty (30) days of the date of this letter, any 
communications that occurred between and among a quorum of the Council concerning the 
statement about the budget and tax implications for fiscal year 2026.
3 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
3 The Council may publicly release any emails by reading their content during a meeting and listing the emails in the 
meeting minutes, or by referencing the emails during a meeting and posting the emails along with the minutes on the 
municipal website.  
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Council.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Thomas Duggan –   
Lawrence City Council c/o President Jeovanny A. Rodriguez – By email only: 
JRodriguez@cityoflawrence.com  
Lawrence City Clerk Eileen O’Connor Bernal – By email only: 
eileen.bernal@cityoflawrence.com  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
