===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
November 15, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 158 
 
 
Colby C. Brunt, Esq. 
Stoneman, Chandler & Miller LLP 
99 High Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By e-mail only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Brunt:                                                                                                                                                                          
 
This office received a complaint from Martin Benson on January 9, 2021, alleging that 
the Acton-Boxborough Regional School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee 
on November 13, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter December 4.  The 
complaint alleges that the Committee deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting during a 
training on July 30 and when members texted each other during an October 15 meeting.   
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged.  
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to 
the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We also 
reviewed the notices and minutes of Committee meetings held on July 30, September 17, and 
October 15, as well as a video recording of the October 15 meeting.2  In addition, we spoke with 
you by telephone on October 22, 2021.   
 
 
 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 
2 A video recording of the Committee meeting held on October 15 is available at: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IDFXfSGkeOo. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  The Committee is an eleven-member public body; thus, six 
members constitute a quorum.   
 
In July 2020, the Acton Boxborough Students for Equity and Justice sent a petition with 
over 1300 signatures to the Committee seeking to retire the school mascot, which was a 
Colonial.  The Superintendent, as well as the Chair of the Committee, met with the students in 
August 2020 and invited them to attend a future Committee meeting.3   
 
The Committee duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on July 30 at 7:00 P.M.  The 
notice included two topics, “Preliminary Discussion of 2020-2021 ABRSC Goals” and an 
executive session to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining.  The July 30 meeting 
was held as planned.  As part of the discussion of the Committee’s goals for the upcoming school 
year, individuals from the Seeking Educational Equity and Diversity (SEED) Program provided 
training on personal, organizational, and societal change toward social justice.  The 
Committee discussed racism and possible policy changes for the school district, including the 
retention of school resource officers  and inclusive student activities.  
 
During a September 17 meeting, the Acton Boxborough Students for Equity and Justice 
appeared before the Committee to petition for the retirement of the school mascot.  The students 
suggested that the current mascot was not representative of the community and noted that “a 
white male colonist in no way reflects the ever-changing community” but rather “gives a likeable 
face to a time period that set the stage for present day racial divisions.”  The Committee thanked 
the students for the presentation and discussed the need for community engagement.  The 
Committee suggested that retirement and replacement of the mascot be separate processes.  The 
Committee then heard from educators and advisors for the Students for Equity and Justice who 
supported the students’ petition for retirement of the mascot.  The Committee thereafter solicited 
feedback from the community, high school students, and alumni of the school district and 
received almost 700 emails. 
 
The Committee held a meeting on October 15, in which three members participated 
remotely while the remaining eight members were present in the Administration Building 
Auditorium.  For two and one-half hours, the Committee discussed whether to retire the school 
mascot.  Committee Chair Tessa McKinley first reviewed the timeline of events that brought the 
Committee to the current discussion.  The High School Principal and Superintendent of Schools 
provided separate statements expressing their thoughts on the retirement of the mascot.  Over the 
next hour, each Committee member shared their own thoughts about the mascot.  The Committee 
received comments from members of the public, including the complainant.  Committee member 
Kyra Cook then moved to retire the “Colonial Mascot, with the understanding that programs and 
new purchases made by the District will no longer bear the name ‘Colonials’, but changes to 
existing capital items such as uniforms, scoreboards and other items will be undertaken as time 
and funding permit.”  For the next twenty minutes, Committee members proposed various 
amendments to the motion.  Finally, the Committee unanimously voted by roll call to retire the 
Colonial Mascot.   
 
3 The chair of the Committee in 2020 was Tessa McKinley.  The current Chair of the Committee is Adam Klein. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
During a September 23, 2021, meeting, the Committee created a Mascot Screening 
Subcommittee “to solicit, communicate, and narrow options for a new mascot.”  Additional facts 
will be presented where applicable in the Discussion section that follows. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened.  G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c 30A, § 18.  However, the 
Law’s definition of “meeting” excludes “attendance by a quorum of a public body at a public or 
private gathering, including a conference or training program or a media, social or other event, so 
long as the members do not deliberate.”  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  For purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id. 
 
During the Committee meeting held on October 15, Committee member Evelyn 
Abayaah-Issah mentioned that the issue of the mascot came up at the SEED training on July 30.  
The complaint alleges that this “statement indicates that the topic of the Colonial mascot was 
discussed at an anti-bias training not open to the public and amongst a quorum of the School 
Committee.”  The Committee maintains that any discussion about the mascot that occurred on 
July 30 was between Ms. Abayaah-Issah and Committee member Diane Baum.  Although Ms. 
Abayaah-Issah and Ms. Baum have different memories of exactly when the mascot discussion 
occurred during the July 30 training, whether during a break or during the actual training, they 
both agree that the communication only occurred between the two of them and did not otherwise 
reach a quorum of Committee members.  Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit 
the Committee’s account of the facts.  See OML 2014-122.4  We find that such communication 
did not constitute deliberation because the communication was between two members of the 
Committee, which is not a quorum.  See OML 2021-109.  As such, we find that the Committee 
did not deliberate outside of a properly posted meeting, and therefore did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. 
 
The complaint further alleges that the Committee deliberated via text message during its 
October 15 meeting.  Two Committee members, Amy Krishnamurthy and Kyra Cook, admit that 
they were texting with each other about the retirement of the mascot throughout the October 15 
meeting.  In addition, Chair McKinley disclosed that she texted Ms. Cook during the October 15 
meeting and asked her to make a motion with respect to the mascot.  The remaining eight 
members of the Committee state that they did not communicate with another Committee member 
via text message during the October 15 meeting.  Because the communication between Ms. 
Krishnamurthy and Ms. Cook was between only two members of the Committee, which is not a 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
quorum, we find that it did not constitute deliberation outside of a posted meeting and therefore 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2018-132; OML 2017-199; OML 2017-69.  
Moreover, the communication between Chair McKinley and Ms. Cook was also between only 
two members, a subquorum, and therefore did not constitute deliberation.  Absent specific 
evidence to the contrary, we credit the public body’s version of events that it did not deliberate 
outside of the October 15 meeting.  See OML 2015-8; OML 2014-122.  With respect to the 
complainant’s concern regarding the Committee’s “lack of discussion” and “quick” vote to retire 
the mascot, we have stated in prior determinations that agreement without substantive discussion 
among public body members or even the lack of substantive discussion prior to a vote is 
insufficient to support the inference that those members deliberated outside of a noticed meeting.  
See OML 2017-125; OML 2017-93; OML 2013-128.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Martin Benson – By email  
Acton-Boxborough Regional School Committee – By email only:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
