===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 July 15, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 95 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Mina Makarious, Esq. 
Anderson & Kreiger LLP 
50 Milk Street, 21st Floor 
Boston MA 02109  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Makarious: 
This office received a complaint from Tanya Gailus on December 8, 2020, alleging that 
the Concord Transportation Advisory Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on October 
8, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated October 28.1, 2 In her complaint, 
Ms. Gailus alleges that the Committee met on September 9, 2020, without posting notice or 
providing public access to the meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, and thus violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to comply with the Law’s 
notice and public access requirements at its September 9 meeting. In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, and the 
complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed the Committee’s website, charge and 
the Envision Concord Bridge to 2030 report. Finally, we reviewed relevant portions of videos of 
the Concord Select Board’s December 16, 2019, January 13, 2020, February 10, 2020 and March 
9, 2020, meetings.  
 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 At an October 19 meeting, the Select Board referred the Open Meeting Law complaint to Town Counsel to 
respond. The Committee did not review the complaint. As we find that the Committee is a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law, we remind the Committee of its obligation to meet to review and respond to an Open Meeting 
Law complaint within 14 business days of receipt, or within the time allotted pursuant to an extension granted by 
our office. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The idea to create the Committee evolved from the Town’s 
long-range planning process, called Envision Concord Bridge to 2030. The planning process 
resulted in a July 30, 2018, report which identified a need to increase local sustainable 
transportation in Concord. In response, the Select Board drafted a charge for a Transportation 
Advisory Committee, discussing the process at four open meetings - December 16, 2019, 
January 13, 2020, February 10, 2020 and March 9, 2020.  
During the December 16, 2019, meeting, the Select Board noted the importance of 
transportation and the Select Board’s interest in initiating an advisory group to study the issue in 
a collaborative way between town departments. The Select Board chose Member Jane Hotchkiss 
to work on a draft of the Committee’s charge, to be discussed at a January meeting. During the 
January 13, 2020, and February 10, 2020, meetings, the Select Board debated the details of the 
Committee’s charge. The Select Board considered who should appoint the Committee members, 
who the Committee should report to, and whether the Committee would be a “Select Board 
Committee” or a “Town Manager Committee.”  
At the March 9, 2020, meeting, the Select Board voted to approve a final charge for the 
Committee, after specifically debating whether the Select Board should approve the Committee 
at all since the members would be appointed by the Town Manager. The Committee’s final 
charge stated that the Committee, which would have nine to eleven members, would be 
“appointed by the Town Manager and working closely with the Select Board” to: 
1. Review and evaluate application of tools (e.g. Rail Trail Initiatives, 
Complete Streets, Parking Studies, Cut Through Study, Traffic 
Management Group determinations, School Transportation 
Needs..) in meeting Envision Concord Bridge to 2030 ’s local 
transportation goals; 
2. Assess the transportation concerns and ideas identified by existing 
town committees; 
3. Explore and recommend innovative approaches and revenue 
sources for both new ways of local mobility as well as maintaining 
and enhancing existing infrastruct ure. such as state, regional and 
federal funds, public-private partnerships, grants, etc.; 
4. Explore multi -model transportation options within and through 
Concord. 
5. Balance the opportunities for transportation throughout Concord 
with goals for, environmental sustainability, stewardship of town 
historic and cultural resources, support for economic vitality, and 
the needs of a population of diverse incomes and ages, including 
public and private school communities.; 
6. Make recommendations as to how the Town can enh ance local 
transportation actions with existing resources; 
7. Explore ways to benefit from neighboring communities, regional 
and state efforts to achieve similar goals; and 
8. Develop a public education and input process. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Transportation Advisory Committee Charge, March 9, 2020, https://www.concordma.gov/ 
DocumentCenter/View/26499/Transportation-Advisory-Committee-Charge-. 
Finally, under “Duties and Responsibilities,” the Committee’s charge states that the 
Committee will “[a]nalyze goals and report to the Town Manager and Select Board with specific 
recommendations that can be implemented to support the goals. Report progress to the Select 
Board and Town Manager on an ongoing basis.”3 
DISCUSSION 
 The Open Meeting Law defines a “public body” as any “multiple-member board, 
commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any 
county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Supreme Judicial 
Court recognized an exemption to the Open Meeting Law’s definition of a public body in 
Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991). In Connelly, the Court held 
that where an individual public official creates a committee to advise that person on a decision 
that he or she has the sole authority to make, that committee is not subject to the Open Meeting 
Law. Connelly, 409 Mass. at 235.  
The complaint alleges that the Committee is subject to the Open Meeting Law and 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post notice and provide public access to the 
Committee’s first meeting, which took place on September 9, 2020. Ms. Gailus filed her 
complaint with the Committee on October 8, though she raised her concerns with the Town 
Manager and the Select Board before filing her complaint. In response, the Committee did not 
dispute that the September 9 meeting did not comply with the Open Meeting Law. Rather, the 
Committee’s counsel asserted that the Committee was created by the Town Manager and the 
Committee therefore falls within the Connelly exception and is not required to comply with the 
Open Meeting Law. However, in response to the complaint, the Committee decided to comply 
with the Open Meeting Law “voluntarily.” According to the Committee’s website, the 
Committee posted meeting notices, including public access information, and approved minutes 
starting with its October 7 meeting.  
 To determine whether a multiple-member entity is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, there are three factors we consider: 
1. The entity must be “within” government and not excluded from the definition of “public 
body”; 
2. The entity must be a “body” empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a “public purpose.” 
See OML 2017-120; OML 2010-1.4 With regard to the first factor, where an entity is not clearly 
placed within government by law, it may still be “within” government if the government played 
 
3 Although the Committee’s charge says that the Committee shall “keep minutes of its deliberations, [and] observe 
the Open Meeting [Law],” this statement alone is not determinative regarding whether the Committee is a public 
body subject to the Open Meeting Law.  
4 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
a significant role in creating or structuring the group, the government has control over the group, 
and the group primarily performs an essentially governmental function. See OML 2015-34.   
 Here, where the Committee was created by the Select Board and reports to the Select 
Board regarding matters of transportation policy, we find that it is within government. It also 
serves a public purpose: assessing the Town’s transportation needs and making policy 
recommendations. Finally, we find that it is a body empowered to act collectively, as the purpose 
of the Committee was to compile and analyze information and work collaboratively to provide 
recommendations to both the Town Manager and the Select Board. See OML 2016-116. The 
Committee therefore satisfies all three factors of the public body analysis.   
 We next examine whether the Connelly exception applies. In Connelly, the Supreme 
Judicial Court held that where an individual public official creates a committee to advise that 
individual on a decision that he has the sole authority to make, that committee is not subject to 
the Open Meeting Law. Connelly, 409 Mass at 235. We find that the Connelly exception does 
not apply to the Committee for the following reasons.  
The Committee was created by a public body, the Select Board.  
 In Connelly, the Supreme Judicial Court explained that the Open Meeting Law “does not 
extend to committees which are not appointed by a ‘governmental body,’ and not otherwise 
constituted pursuant to statute, ordinance or by-law, or in some other official way to perform an 
assignment itself subject to the law.” We find that the Committee was appointed by a 
governmental body, that is, the Select Board. Throughout the Select Board’s four meetings 
regarding the formation of the Committee, it was clear that the Select Board was the final 
decision-maker regarding the content of the Committee’s charge, not the Town Manager. The 
Town Manager made suggestions about the structure, membership and scope of the Committee. 
However, the Select Board wrote, edited and voted to approve the final version of the 
Committee’ charge. In our previous determinations, we explained that a public body’s vote to 
create the group in question was a clear factor indicating creation of a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law. See OML 2018-21; OML 2017-118; OML 2017-36; OML 2016-102. For 
these reasons, we find that the Committee was created by a public body - the Select Board - and  
not by the Town Manager.  
The Committee was created to report to both the Town Manager and the Select Board. 
 In addition, in order for a group to fall within the Connelly exception, the group in 
question must advise a single public official on a task which the official has the sole authority to 
act upon. As the Supreme Judicial Court explained, “[o]f special significance is the fact that the 
superintendent, because he is clearly not a ‘governmental body,’ could, by himself, have 
accomplished the task of screening and interviewing candidates in a closed session, entirely free 
from the requirements of the open meeting law. This was his independent and exclusive statutory 
responsibility ... and the selection committee was assembled merely to assist him in carrying out 
his responsibility.” Connelly, 409 Mass, at 235-36. The same standard was later applied in a case 
in which the Governor created an advisory panel to advise him on a decision that he had the 
ultimate authority to make by himself. Lambert v. Exec. Dir. of Judicial Nominating Council, 
425 Mass. 406, 409 (1997). 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 Here, the Committee’s charge requires the Committee to report on its progress to both the 
Select Board and Town Manager on an ongoing basis. As the Committee will make at least some 
of its recommendations to the Select Board, the Committee is not merely advising the Town 
Manager on tasks which are within the Town Manager’s authority. See OML 2019-71 (working 
group fit within Connelly exception where working group only possessed authority to make 
recommendations to the Mayor). 
 Because the Committee was created by the Select Board, and reports to both the Select 
Board and the Town Manager, we find that the Committee is a public body of the Town, not of 
the Town Manager, and therefore the Connelly exception does not apply. Rather, the Committee 
is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. Where the Committee failed to post notice 
and failed to provide public access to its September 9 meeting, it violated the Open Meeting 
Law. 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee is a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law, and thus violated the Law by failing to comply with the Law’s notice and 
minutes requirements. We order immediate and future compliance with the Law’s requirements, 
and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
Law.  
 We also order the Committee to create and approve, within sixty (60) days of receipt of 
this letter, minutes for the September 9, 2020, meeting, if the Committee has not already done so. 
The Committee should create these minutes to the best of its ability, through whatever means are 
available, including the memories and individual notations of the attendees. We also order the 
Committee to send a copy of the September 9, 2020, meeting minutes to Ms. Gailus within sixty-
five (65) days of receipt of this letter and to make those minutes available to the public upon 
request. Finally, if the Committee did not create meeting minutes for any other meetings, besides 
the September 9 meeting which was the subject of this complaint, we order the Committee to 
create accurate minutes, to the best of its ability, for those meetings as well.  
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Tanya Gailus (via e-mail:  
 Concord Transportation Advisory Committee c/o Town Manager Stephen Crane  
 (via e-mail:  
 

===PAGE 6===
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 