===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
       December 26, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 256 
 
 
Darren R. Klein, Esq.  
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By email only: dklein@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Klein: 
 
This office received two complaints from Adam Austin on October 7, 2024, alleging that 
the North Reading Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.  Both complaints were originally filed with the Board on August 20, 2024, and you 
responded to the complaints, on behalf of the Board, by separate letters dated August 23, 2024.
1  
The complaints allege that the Board failed to timely review executive session minutes in 
response to a request for minutes and failed to timely respond to an Open Meeting Law 
complaint.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the ways 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s 
responses to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review.   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  Upon request by 
any person to inspect or copy the minutes of an executive session or any portion thereof, the 
body must respond to the request within 10 days following receipt and release any such minutes 
where publication would not defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session; provided, 
however, that if the body has not performed a review, the public body shall perform the review 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2024, unless otherwise indicated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
and release the non-exempt minutes, or any portion thereof, not later than the body’s next 
meeting or 30 days, whichever first occurs.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2); OML 2012-106; OML 
2012-91; OML 2012-86.2 
 
The Open Meeting Law also requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a 
complaint, the public body review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if 
appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of any 
remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  A public body must meet to 
review the complaint and formulate a response, or meet to delegate that authority, and respond to 
the complaint within 14 business days.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); OML 2022-43; OML 2017-69; 
OML 2012-90.   
 
The Board acknowledges, and we find, that the Board failed to review requested 
executive session minutes at its next meeting following the request.  On Friday, July 19, after 
business hours, the complainant requested executive session minutes of the meeting held on June 
27.  We acknowledge that the Board responded to the complainant within 10 days informing him 
that the executive session minutes would be reviewed during the Board’s August 19 meeting, 
which was the appropriate thing to do.  However, the Board then needed to perform that review 
by its next meeting or within 30 days, whichever would occur first.  See OML 2024-97.  The 
Board held meetings on July 24 and August 2, but did not review the minutes until its August 19 
meeting, which was the third meeting after receiving the request.  As such, the Board violated 
the Open Meeting Law by failing to review the requested executive session minutes at its next 
meeting following the request.   
 
In addition, the Board acknowledges, and we find, that the Board failed to timely respond 
to an Open Meeting Law complaint filed on or about July 19.  The Board responded to this 
complaint on August 20.  Because the Board failed to respond to an Open Meeting Law 
complaint within 14 business days, we find that it violated the Open Meeting Law.    
 
We must determine whether these violations were, as the complainant urges, intentional 
ones.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body 
or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 29.02.  An 
intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the 
law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting 
Law.  Id.  The Board has not been previously advised of the law’s requirements with respect to 
responding to an Open Meeting Law complaint.  Because the Board had not been notified of its 
obligations prior to the events addressed in this letter, we find that this violation was not 
intentional.   
 
The Board was advised by the Attorney General last year, on April 24, 2023, of its 
obligations under the Open Meeting Law to respond to a request for executive session minutes in 
a timely manner.  See OML 2023-62.  Although that determination focused on whether the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely respond to a request for executive 
session minutes, we did include guidance explaining that if, at the time of a request for executive 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website; https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
session minutes, a public body has not conducted a review of the minutes to determine whether 
continued nondisclosure is warranted, the body must perform such a review and release the 
minutes, if appropriate, no later than its next meeting or within 30 days, whichever occurs first.  
See OML 2023-62.  However, as the requirement that a public body review requested executive 
session minutes at its next meeting or within 30 days, whichever occurs first, was not directly at 
issue in the prior determination letter, and may not have been fully understood, we decline to 
find that the violation here was intentional.  We expect this requirement is now clear to the 
Board. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to timely review executive session minutes in response to a request for minutes and by  
failing to timely respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint.  We order the Board’s immediate 
and future compliance with the law’s requirements and caution the Board that a finding of a 
similar future violation may be deemed an intentional violation of the Open Meeting Law and 
may result in a civil penalty of up to $1,000 per violation.   
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
        
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  Adam Austin – By email only:  
North Reading Select Board c/o Michael Gilleberto, Town Administrator – By email 
only: mgilleberto@northreadingma.gov  
North Reading Town Clerk – By email only:
 TownClerk@northreadingma.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
