===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
September 10, 2012 
OML 2012 — 88 
Rhonda LaBombard 
Town Administrator 
Town of Sheffield 
Town Hall- 21 Depot Square 
P.O. Box 325 
Sheffield, MA 01257 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. LaBombard: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Mark Pruhenski dated March 20, 2012, 
alleging that the Sheffield Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about February 
15, 2012, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, to the original complaint by letter dated 
February 17, 2012.1  In his complaint, Mr. Pruhenski alleges that the Board failed to include in 
its meeting notice and in its meeting minutes information relating to a request for legal services 
expenditures that was submitted to the Board, which the Board voted upon and approved during 
its January 23, 2012 meeting. (hereinafter "the meeting") The complainant seeks public 
disclosure of this discussion, including the specific votes taken by the Board and the amount of 
funds approved for legal services expenditures. 
We reviewed the February 15, 2012 complaint; your February 17, 2012 response to the 
complaint; the March 20, 2012 complaint filed with our office requesting further review; and 
your letter to our office dated June 5, 2012.2  We also reviewed the meeting notice; the original 
and amended meeting minutes; a memorandum from Building Commissioner and Zoning 
Enforcement Officer Thomas Carmody to the Board, dated January 19, 2012; and a 
memorandum from Jennifer Goewey, Assistant to the Town Administrator, to Enforcement 
We remind the Board that, while a public body may authorize an individual such as the Town Administrator or 
Town Counsel to respond on the public body's behalf, the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General's regulations 
require that the Board first review the Open Meeting Law complaint. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
The public body may meet in executive session under Purpose 1 to review the complaint, if it so chooses. See G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The February 16, 2012 meeting minutes do not reflect any discussion of this complaint. 
2  For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 2===
Officer Carmody, dated January 24, 2012. We also viewed portions of the video recording of the 
meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing a topic during its meeting that was not included in the meeting notice because the 
chair did not reasonably anticipate that discussion on this topic would occur. However, we find 
that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include in the meeting minutes any 
reference to the discussion on the same topic. The Board took appropriate remedial action upon 
discovering the omission, though, by promptly correcting the minutes and providing a copy to 
the complainant. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. On 
Thursday, January 19, 2012, the Board posted notice of its upcoming meeting, which was 
scheduled for Monday, January 23, 2012. That same day, Enforcement Officer Carmody sent a 
memorandum to the Board. (hereinafter "the memorandum") According to Town Administrator 
Rhonda LaBombard, the Board received the memorandum on Friday, January 20, 2012, a day 
after the meeting notice was posted. In his memorandum, Enforcement Officer Carmody 
requested that the Town Counsel represent him in his capacity as the Zoning Enforcement 
Officer in an administrative appeal filed with the Zoning Board of Appeals by Mark Pruhenski 
and Melissa VanSant. 
On Monday, January 23, 2012, the Board convened a meeting in open session. When the 
Board reached the "Other Business" item on the agenda, former Chair of the Board Rene Wood 
asked Town Administrator LaBombard whether she had any items for the Board's consideration. 
Town Administrator LaBombard asked the Board to consider two requests for legal counsel 
submitted by Enforcement Officer Carmody, which included the one made in the memorandum. 
The Board's approval is required prior to any retention of counsel for the Town. During the 
ensuing discussion, the Board did not authorize a specific 'expenditure amount for this request, 
but it encouraged Enforcement Officer Carmody to control legal services expenditures by 
limiting the need for counsel to travel, for instance. The Board voted unanimously to approve 
Enforcement Officer Carmody's request for legal counsel as proposed in the memorandum. 
Town Administrator LaBombard then raised Enforcement Officer Carmody's second request for 
legal counsel. The Board deferred their discussion of the matter, noting that if the request had 
been urgent, Enforcement Officer Carmody would have been present at the meeting to discuss it. 
On January 24, 2012, the Board sent a memorandum to Enforcement Officer Carmody, notifying 
him that the Board voted and approved his proposal for legal representation, as requested in the 
memorandum. 
It is undisputed that the original minutes from the meeting failed to include the discussion 
of Enforcement Officer Carmody's two requests for legal services expenditures. Immediately 
following the filing of this complaint, Town Administrator LaBombard watched a video 
recording of the meeting and discovered that the entire discussion was not included in the 
meeting minutes. According to Town Administrator LaBombard, this was the result of an 
unintentional oversight by a newly appointed recording secretary. Upon discovering the 
oversight, the Town Administrator promptly drafted an amendment to the meeting minutes to 
2 
===PAGE 3===
include this discussion, which the Board approved during a meeting held on February 16, 2012. 3  
Town Administrator LaBombard then responded to the complainant by letter on February 17, 
2012 and provided the complainant with a copy of the amended minutes, which included the 
discussion of this topic. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays," and include in 
that notice "the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A public body 
may consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice if it is a topic that the 
chair did not reasonably anticipate at least 48 hours before a meeting. See OML 2011-36; OML 
2011-23; OML 2011-13.4  However, public bodies are encouraged not to discuss or vote on 
items that arise within that 48-hour period or during a meeting if the topic can be postponed until 
a later date and added to a properly posted meeting notice. OML 2011-13. 
Since Enforcement Officer Carmody's memorandum was received by the Board on 
Friday, January 20, 2012 and the meeting was scheduled to convene on the following Monday, 
January 23, 2012, the Chair of the Board could not reasonably anticipate at least 48 hours before 
the meeting, excluding Saturdays and Sundays, that this would be a topic of discussion. 
Accordingly, the Board was not required to list the topic in the meeting notice. $ee G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b); OML 2011-36; OML 2011-23; OML 2011-13. While the Board could have postponed 
the discussion until it could be included in a posted meeting notice, Town Administrator 
LaBombard stated that the Board decided that if it had waited until the next meeting on February 
6, 2012, Enforcement Officer Carmody and legal counsel would not have adequate time to 
properly prepare for the Zoning Board hearing scheduled for February 16, 2012. 5  In exercising 
this discretion, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by permitting this discussion to 
occur during its meeting. 
The Board did violate the Open Meeting Law, however, by failing to include in the 
meeting minutes any reference to this same discussion. The Board is required by the Open 
Meeting Law to "create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings . . . setting forth the date, 
time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a 
list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions 
3  The Board had already approved the original meeting minutes during its February 6, 2012 meeting. 
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeetinu .  See also the section of our office's website that includes Frequently Asked 
Questions pertaining to the Open Meeting Law: 
Q: May a public body consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice? 
A: Yes, if it is a topic that the chair did not reasonably anticipate 48 hours before the meeting. If a meeting topic is 
proposed after the meeting notice is posted, the public body is encouraged to update its posting to provide the public 
with as much notice as possible of what subjects will be discussed during a meeting. 
5  Town Administrator LaBombard did not disclose the exact hearing date to the Board during the meeting, but 
disclosed to the Board that it was a "tentative" date in mid-February and she did not want to cause confusion by 
announcing an uncertain date. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting 
minutes failed to include any mention of the discussion about Enforcement Officer Carmody's 
requests, including the decisions made and the actions taken concerning the requests. We do not 
find that this violation was intentional, however, as it appears to have been the result of an 
unintentional oversight by a new recording secretary. In addition, we find that appropriate 
remedial action was taken when, upon discovering the omission, the Board promptly corrected 
the minutes and provided a copy to the complainant. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by discussing a topic during its meeting that was not included in the meeting notice because 
the chair did not reasonably anticipate that such a discussion would occur. The Board violated 
the Law, however, by failing to include in the meeting minutes any reference to the discussion 
surrounding the same topic. Because the Board took appropriate remedial action upon 
discovering the violation, we order no additional relief 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this letter 
to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Mark Pruhenski 
Sheffield Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
4 