===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
January 31, 2019 
OML 2019-8
Boston Public Improvement Commission 
do Christopher Osgood 
Public Works Department 
1 City Hall Square, Room 714 
Boston, MA 02201
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Mr. Osgood:
This office received two complaints from Colman Herman on December 3, 2018, 
alleging that the Boston Public Improvement Commission (the “Commission”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the 
Commission on or about October 3 and October 30, 2018, and you responded to the 
October 3, 2018 complaint, on behalf of the Commission, in a letter on October 23, 2018. 
City of Boston Records Access Officer Shawn Williams responded to the October 30,
2018 complaint, on behalf of the Commission, in a letter dated December 4, 2018.1 In his 
complaints, Mr. Herman alleges that the Commission failed to post notice and create 
minutes of its meetings.2
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 
29.07(2)(a), and we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law. As a 
threshold matter, we do not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized
1 We remind the Commission that the Open Meeting Law requires that, unless an extension has been granted 
by our office, within 14 business days after receiving a complaint, the public body must review the 
complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the 
complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).
2 In his request for further review, Mr. Herman alleges that the minutes were approved by staff, rather than 
the Commission. We decline to review allegations raised for the first time in a complaint filed with our 
office. See OML Declination 7-18-12 (Cotuit Board of Fire Commissioners). However, we note that the 
Open Meeting Law does not govern the method for approving meeting minutes. Public bodies may choose 
the method for approval. When a quorum of a public body approves minutes, however, it must do so during 
a noticed meeting. See FAQ on Meeting Minutes, at https://www.mass.gov/info-details/ffequently-asked- 
questions-about-the-open-meeting-law#frequently-asked-questions-about-meeting-minutes-.
o

===PAGE 2===
allegations. See OML 2017-134; OML 2012-106.3 As such, without a particular meeting 
date to investigate, we will not review the entire database of meeting minutes to determine 
the Commission’s compliance with the requirement that it maintained sufficient minutes of 
its meetings.4
We observe that, as the Commission points out in its response, it does create 
meeting minutes. Upon review of several sets of meeting minutes from the past few years, 
however, we share the complainant’s concern about the sufficiency of certain meeting 
minutes. Specifically, some of its minutes from prior meetings lacked a summary of the 
discussion on each topic. We remind the Commission that the Open Meeting Law requires 
a public body to “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive 
sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary 
of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
We encourage the Commission to review its minutes to ensure that they include a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, as the law requires.
We also note that that the Commission posts notices of its meetings on the City’s 
website in compliance with the Open Meeting Law’s meeting notice posting requirement. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b) (“a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” which 
contains “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting”).
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending 
with our office or the Commission. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 
if you have any questions regarding this letter.
Hanne Rush
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
3 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
4 We also note that a complaint concerning the sufficiency and/or accuracy of meeting minutes is deemed 
timely when it is filed with a public body within 30 days of the date the minutes are approved. See G.L. 
c. 30A, § 23(b); OML 2014-62.
2
im in

===PAGE 3===
cc: Colman Herman
Shawn Williams, City of Boston Records Access Officer
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3
