===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
February 8, 2017 
OML 2017-24 
Middlefield Selectboard 
c/o Duane Pease, Town Administrator 
PO Box 238 
Middlefield, MA 01243 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Pease: 
This office received a complaint from Mitchell Feldmesser on September 16, 
alleging that the Middlefield Selectboard (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about 
July 21, and former Board Chair Alan Vint responded in a letter dated August 5.2 In his 
complaint, Mr. Feldmesser alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
manner alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. Additionally, we reviewed the minutes from the Board meeting held on 
June 27. Finally, we interviewed you by telephone on November 9 and December 1, and 
Mr. Vint on November 18.3 
We find the facts as follows. The Board consists of three members, thus two 
members constitute a quorum.4 During its June 27 meeting, the Board voted to approve a 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 Although the complaint is dated July 11, and was placed in the Town Administrator's mailbox at Town Hall 
sometime thereafter, the Town Administrator did not check this mailbox until July 21. The Town 
Administrator promptly forwarded the complaint to the Board that day. 
3 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
4 We note that, since the filing of this complaint, Mr. Vint and Board member Robert Costa have resigned 
from the Board. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
list of appointments filling various vacancies on Town boards and committees. One of 
those vacancies was the seat that had been held by the complainant on the Zoning Board of 
Appeals (the "ZBA") and who term was set to expire. The Board decided to appoint 
another resident, Denis Basak, to the seat instead of the complainant. 
Neither the Town Administrator nor Mr. Vint recall how Mr. Basak was named to 
this seat. However, they both recall a brief discussion among all three Board members in 
the Board office prior to a Board meeting held on June 20. The Town Administrator 
witnessed the discussion. The Board members had arrived early for this meeting and used 
the time to look at warrants and mail before the meeting. At one point, Mr. Vint 
mentioned that the Board would need to consider appointments for Town boards and 
committees in the near future. Board member Robert Costa, who was also a member of 
the ZBA, responded to Mr. Vint by describing personality conflicts with the complainant 
while serving on the ZBA. At some point before its next meeting on June 27, someone 
suggested to Mr. Vint that Mr. Basak fill the complainant's seat instead. Mr. Basak's 
name was added to the list of appointments, although neither the Town Administrator nor 
Mr. Vint recalled who drafted this list. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School 
Commission of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive 
session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." 
G.L. c, 30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public 
body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' 
shall not include the distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports 
or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed." Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple 
majority of the members of the public body. Id. 
The complaint alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a noticed meeting about 
the complainant's reappointment to the ZBA. The June 20 discussion between Mr. Vint 
and Mr. Costa in the Board office constituted a discussion between a quorum of the three-
member Board on a matter within its jurisdiction, and thus should have been saved for a 
noticed meeting. See OML 2016-104 (even the expression of an opinion of one public 
body member on matters within a public body's jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body 
is a deliberation, even if no other public body member responds.).5 Accordingly, we find 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
http ://www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
2 
===PAGE 3===
that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing the matter outside of a 
noticed meeting. 
In a prior determination, OML 2011-26, we found that a public body intentionally 
violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing candidates for appointment immediately 
prior to a noticed meeting. While the Board's conduct is similar in this case, we find that 
the brief exchange between the two Board members, while improper, did not appear to be 
an attempt to specifically circumvent the Open Meeting Law. The Board did not continue 
the discussion beyond the brief exchange. Additionally, the Board acknowledged that the 
discussion had occurred. Therefore, we decline to find an intentional violation or 
recommend the nullification of the Board's decision to appoint Mr. Basak. However, we 
caution the Board to be mindful that the law strictly provides that, apart from the limited 
exception for discussing the scheduling of a meeting and the distribution of certain written 
materials, a quorum of the Board may not communicate on matters within its jurisdiction 
outside of a meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2015-139; OML 2014-108. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a 
noticed meeting. We order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the law's 
requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
i 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Mitchell Feldmesser 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of 
receipt of a final order. 
3 