===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
       December 17, 2024 
 
OML 2024 – 242 
 
 
Alexander M. Castro, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
30 Green Street 
Newburyport, MA 01950 
 
By email only: alex@mtclawyers.com  
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Castro: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on August 1, 2024, alleging that 
the Middleton Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 12, 2024, and you responded to 
the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated August 1, 2024.  The complaint alleges that 
the Board failed to properly post notice for a meeting to be held on July 9, 2024, and did not 
include sufficient specificity on the notice where the notice failed to include the names of the 
individual candidates being considered for appointment. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting 
an insufficiently specific notice for the July 9, 2024, meeting that failed to identify the individual 
candidates being considered for appointment.  We find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law in the other way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review.  In addition, we reviewed the notice and minutes of the Board meeting 
held on July 9, 2024. 
 
FACTS 
 
On September 30, 2013, then-Town Clerk Sarah George notified this office that the 
Town of Middleton had adopted its website, townofmiddleton.org, as the official method of 
notice posting.  Attached to the Board’s August 1, 2024, response was an unsigned letter, dated 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
January 25, 2018, from current Town Clerk Ilene Twiss notifying this office that the municipal 
website had changed and the official method of notice posting for the Town of Middleton was 
middletonma.gov.  This office has no record of receiving the 2018 letter.   
 
On July 2, 2024, at 12:14 P.M., the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on July 
9, 2024, at 6:00 PM.  The notice listed 13 topics, two of which were “Joint meeting with the 
Middleton Library Board of Trustees to appoint new trustee” and “Vote new appointments (see 
attached list).”  The notice was posted to the municipal website, http://www.middletonma.gov, 
but did not include the names of the individuals to be appointed to the Library Board of Trustees 
or any list with the names or positions of “new appointments.”   
 
The July 9, 2024, meeting was held as planned.  During the meeting, the Board met 
jointly with the Library Board of Trustees and considered five candidates for an open position on 
the Board of Trustees.  All five candidates had previously submitted an application and resume, 
and all were present at the meeting location.  The Board heard from all five candidates and then 
each member of the Board and Library Board of Trustees voted for their choice of candidate with 
Kosta Prentakis receiving the majority of votes. 
 
The Board then considered the “new appointments” as listed in their packet and heard 
from those candidates who were present.  Ultimately, the Board unanimously voted to appoint 
William Renault to the Bylaw Review Committee, Bob LeBlanc to the Historical Commission, 
Annette Wilton to the Rails to Trail Committee, and Herman Learmond-Criqui to the Affordable 
Housing Trust for a two year term as the Community Preservation Committee representative.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notic
e of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Id.  The list of topics 
shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2019-70; OML 2015-35; OML 2013-39.
1 
 
For local public bodies, notice shall be filed with the municipal clerk and posted in a 
manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on the municipal building in which 
the clerk’s office is located.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c).  Alternatively, a municipality may designate a 
website as its official notice posting location for all public bodies within the municipality.  940 
CMR 29.03(2)(b).  If such an alternative posting method is adopted, the municipal clerk, in the 
case of a municipality, “shall file with the Attorney General written notice of adoption of the 
alternative method, including the website address where applicable, and any change thereto, and 
 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
the most current notice posting method on file with the Attorney General shall be consistently 
used.”  940 CMR 29.03(1)(c). 
 
As of July 9, 2024, the notice posting location on file with the Division of Open 
Gover
nment for Middleton public bodies was townofmiddleton.org, which information had been 
provided to the Division in September 2013.  The complaint alleges that the Board did not 
properly post notice of the meeting held on July 9, 2024, as the notice was not posted to 
townofmiddleton.org, the official notice posting location then on file with this office.  Although 
this office has no record of receiving Town Clerk Twiss’s January 2018 letter advising our office 
that the municipal website had changed to middletonma.gov, we credit the Board’s 
representation that the notification was sent, and accept the copy of the letter provided with the 
Board’s response as authentic.  See OML 2024-152 and OML 2024-133 (we credit a public 
body’s account of the facts absent sufficient evidence to the contrary); see also LaPointe v. 
License Board of Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) (“There is every presumption in favor of the 
honesty and sufficiency of the motives actuating public officers in actions ostensibly taken for 
the general welfare.”).  As such, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
where the notice was timely posted to middletonma.gov, the official posting location for all 
public bodies in the Town of Middleton. 
 
The complaint also alleges that the notice of the July 9, 2024, meeting was insufficient 
wher
e it did not include the names of the individuals to be considered for the Library Board of 
Trustees or the identity of the “new appointments.”  We have consistently stated that notices 
must include specific details about appointments to be made and the names of anticipated 
applicants.  See OML 2022-217; OML 2017-177; OML 2017-148; OML 2016-167; OML 2015-
196.  This information gives members of the public necessary information about the positions or 
applicants the Board intends to consider.  In its response, the Board explained that “the Chair 
could not have reasonably anticipated what the final list of appointees would be, as individuals 
could nominate themselves for the new appointments at the meeting.”  This concern can be 
addressed by the Board including on the notice a statement that additional nominations will be 
accepted during the meeting.  See OML 2020-45.   
 
The Board has not claimed that the names of the applicants for the Library Board of 
Trustees or the names of the other four applicants who were appointed to the Bylaw Review 
Committee, Historical Commission, Rails to Trail Committee, and Affordable Housing Trust 
were not reasonably anticipated 48 hours in advance of the July 9, 2024, meeting.  As such, we 
find that the notice should have included the names of the individuals being considered for 
appointment to the Library Board of Trustees, Bylaw Review Committee, Historical 
Commission, Rails to Trail Committee, and Affordable Housing Trust.  Accordingly, the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include this information on the notice.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently specific notice for the July 9, 2024, meeting that failed to identify the 
individual candidates being considered for appointment.  We order the Board’s immediate and 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations 
could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins – By email only:   
Middleton Select Board c/o Chair Richard Kassiotis – By email only: 
richard.kassiotis@middletonma.gov  
Middleton Town Clerk Ilene Twiss – By email only: Ilene.Twiss@middletonma.gov  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
