===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 12, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 55 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
James M. Pender, Esq. 
Morgan Brown & Joy 
jpender@morganbrown.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Pender: 
 
This office received two complaints from David Palmer—one on August 26
1 and one on 
September 27—alleging that the Belmont School Committee (the “Committee”) and the Belmont 
Math Working Group (the “Working Group”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The first complaint was filed with the Working Group on June 10 and the second 
complaint was filed with the Committee and the Working Group on July 22. The Working Group 
did not respond to the first complaint.
2 You responded on behalf of the Committee to the second 
complaint by letter dated August 11.  
 
Together, the complaints allege that the Working Group is a subcommittee of the 
Committee and failed to comply with the Open Meeting Law in various respects, including 
failing to post timely notice of meetings, holding meetings that were not open to the public, 
deliberating outside of posted meetings, and failing to create adequate meeting minutes, among 
other things. The Committee disputes that the Working Group is a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Working Group was a subcommittee of the 
Committee, and that the Working Group violated the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the Committee’s response, the 
requests for further review and documents provided therewith, and video recordings of the 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The Town Clerk responded to the first complaint by email dated June 16 asserting that the Working Group is not a 
public body subject to the Open Meeting Law.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Committee’s March 23, April 12, and April 26 meetings.3 We also reviewed the minutes for the 
Working Group’s May 31 and June 29 meetings.4 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. During the Committee’s March 23 meeting, under the 
topic “Challenger Math Update,” Assistant Superintendent Janice Darias gave a presentation 
regarding the Challenger Geometry Program and the math program at Belmont schools more 
broadly. During the presentation, Assistant Superintendent Darias explained that the 
administration would be forming a math working group to meet in May and June and again in 
September and November, with the Working Group bringing short-term and long-term 
recommendations to the Committee in December. The Working Group would consist of a 
building principal, the math director, math educators, and parents or community members 
representing the following groups: two individuals from the math parents’ group, two individuals 
representing special education, and two individuals representing diversity.  
 
Thereafter, the Committee discussed at length Assistant Superintendent Darias’ 
presentation, and in particular the Working Group. Committee members shared their thoughts 
and opinions about the formation and makeup of the Working Group, the focus of the Working 
Group, how the Working Group might function, and whether and in what capacity the 
Committee should be involved in the Working Group.  
 
At the Committee’s April 12 meeting, Assistant Superintendent Darias gave a 
presentation regarding the Working Group. The presentation again went over the makeup and 
purpose of the Working Group, including that the Working Group would make recommendations 
to the Committee and that some of its long-term recommendations would be made to an 
administrative math curriculum committee. Assistant Superintendent Darias further explained 
that Principal Karla Koza and Math Director Jonathan Golden would co-facilitate the Working 
Group. Finally, Assistant Superintendent Darias presented information about the invitation that 
would be emailed to all families asking for volunteers for the Working Group. The invitation, 
emailed to families on April 13, stated, in relevant part, that “[t]he School Department and 
School Committee are seeking volunteers to join the Math Working Group . . . . The group’s 
charge is to study best practice in mathematics and make recommendations to the School 
Committee and School Department . . . .”    
 
After the presentation, the Committee discussed the Working Group. At one point during 
the discussion, Committee member Jeffrey Liberty asked who was establishing the Working 
Group, Belmont Public Schools or the Committee. Superintendent John Phelan explained that the 
School Department was organizing the group, that curriculum issues fall under the School 
Department’s purview, and that the Working Group’s work would be brought to the School 
 
3 Video recordings of the Committee’s meetings can be found at 
https://videoplayer.telvue.com/player/uClcIN88BHKHJoveFoaVN_8_5Tg72P0o/playlists/6555/media/684232?fulls
creen=false&autostart=false&showtabssearch=false. 
4 The minutes may be found on the Belmont Public Schools’ website, 
https://www.belmont k12.ma.us/bps/Administration/Math-Working-Group, and are titled “agenda.”  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Department’s curriculum review team. Superintendent Phelan further explained that ultimately 
the work would be brought to the Committee.  
 
During the Committee’s April 26 meeting, under the topic “Math Working Group 
Member Selection,” Chair Moriarty introduced the topic, in part, by describing the Working 
Group’s charge as “to study the best practice in mathematics and make recommendations to the 
School Committee and School Department . . . .” Thereafter, Chair Moriarty randomly selected 
two names from an envelope to represent each of the following groups: teachers, math parents, 
special education, and diversity.  
 
The various documents provided to our office, including slides for the two presentations, 
the invitation to volunteer for the Working Group, a welcome message to the Working Group, 
and the Working Group’s page on the Belmont Public Schools’ website
5 all state that part of the 
Working Group’s charge was to make recommendations to the Committee or to the Committee 
and the School Department.  
 
 The Working Group met seven times between May 31 and December 7, with the 
Working Group making a final presentation to the Superintendent on December 7. At the 
Working Group’s first meeting, its charge continued to be described as “to study best practice in 
mathematics and make recommendations to the School Committee and School Department.” The 
Working Group’s next meeting was held on June 29. During this meeting the Working Group 
decided to revisit its charge and to narrow it, in part, by removing the charge to bring 
recommendations to the Committee. Finally, in a memorandum to the Superintendent dated 
December 7, the Working Group explained that it had narrowed its charge to providing 
recommendations to the superintendent, providing suggestions for an administrative curriculum 
committee, and focusing on middle school math.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law defines a “public body” as any “multiple-mem ber board, 
commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any 
county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A subcommittee is “any 
multiple-member body created to advise or make recommendations to a public body.” Id. The 
Supreme Judicial Court recognized an exemption to the Open Meeting Law’s definition of a 
public body in Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991). In Connelly, 
the Court held that where an individual public official creates a committee to advise that person 
on a decision that he or she has the sole authority to make, that committee is not subject to the 
Open Meeting Law. Connelly, 409 Mass. at 235. 
 
The complaints allege that the Working Group is a subcommittee of the Committee and 
that it failed to comply with the Open Meeting Law in various respects, including failing to post 
timely notice of meetings, holding meetings that were not open to the public, deliberating outside 
of posted meetings, and failing to create adequate meeting minutes, among other things. The 
 
5 At some point the Working Group’s webpage was changed to read “The group’s charge is to study best practice in 
mathematics in order to make recommendations to the School Department.” 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Working Group and the Committee  do not dispute the specific allegations raised in the 
complaints; rather, the Committee asserts that the Working Group is not subject to the Open 
Meeting Law because it falls within the Connelly exception. Specifically, the Committee asserts 
that “the curriculum of Belmont Public Schools is the responsibility of the Superintendent,” and 
that the Working Group “was informally established by the Superintendent, not the School 
Committee, to assist him in carrying out his responsibilities.”  
 
We disag
ree with the Committee’s characterization of the creation of the Working Group 
and its initial purpose. The Working Group was created by the Superintendent and Assistant 
Superintendent with significant input from the Committee as to the formation and makeup of the 
Working Group. Furthermore, the Working Group was specifically created to make 
recommendations to the Committee, thus clearly meeting the definition of “subcommittee.” G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18. Therefore, we find that the Working Group was a subcommittee of the Committee 
and that it failed to comply with the Open Meeting. See OML 2023-32.
6 The complaints 
addressed here concern the Working Group’s May 31 and June 29 meetings; therefore, we do not 
opine as to whether the Working Group fell within the Connelly exception following its June 29 
decision to change its charge from making recommendations to the Committee and School 
Department to making recommendations to the School Department alone.  
 
Next, w
e address the sufficiency of the minutes of the Working Group’s May 31 meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all 
meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  
 
When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for 
substan
tial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64. By 
substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so 
that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106. While minutes must include a 
summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes do not 
need to include every remark or opinion presented. See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. We find 
the May 31 meeting minutes to be insufficient where they note that discussions on various topics 
were held but do not summarize those discussions. See OML 2021-33 (“The Open Meeting Law 
requires that meeting minutes include more than a statement that a public body held a discussion 
about a specified topic; the law requires that the minutes summarize the discussion that was 
held.”). 
 
 Fina
lly, we do not find that the Committee itself violated the Open Meeting Law in any 
respect.   
 
 
 
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Working Group was a public body subject 
to the Open Meeting Law and that it failed to comply with the Open Meeting Law, including by 
creating insufficient minutes for its May 31 meeting. We understand that the Working Group’s 
work is complete and that it has disbanded; therefore, we order the co-chairs, Principal Koza and 
Math Director Golden to amend the minutes of the May 31 meeting, to the best of their ability, 
using any means available, including notes, records, and the recollections of those in attendance 
at the meeting. Although we order the Co-Chairs to amend the minutes of the May 31meeting to 
the best of their ability, we acknowledge the potential infeasibility of accurately capturing the 
substance of discussions that occurred sometime ago during a meeting that the Working Group 
mistakenly believed was not subject to the Open Meeting Law; we remind the Co-Chairs that 
minutes must accurately capture what was actually discussed during a meeting. Within 60 days 
of receipt of this letter, the Co-Chairs shall certify to our office that they have complied with this 
order. If the Co-Chairs are unable to amend the minutes of the May 31 meeting, they must, 
within 60 days of receipt of this letter, explain to this office in writing what efforts were made to 
amend the minutes.  
 
Because the Working Group has disbanded, we do not order any additional remedial 
action.  
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Working 
Group, the Committee, or our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if 
you have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Karla Koza, Co-Chair, Belmont Math Working Group (via email:
 kkoza@belmont.k12.ma.us) 
Jonathan Golden, Co-Chair, Belmont Math Working Group (via email: 
jgolden@belmont.k12.ma.us)  
Meghan Moriarty, Chair Belmont School Committee (via email: 
mmoriarty@belmontschools.net) 
Ellen O’Brien Cushman, Belmont Town Clerk (via email: ecushman@belmont-ma.gov) 
David Palmer (via e-mail: ) 
 

===PAGE 6===
6 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 