===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
       March 6, 2023 
 
OML 2023 – 28 
 
 
Board of Health 
 c/o Administrative Assistant Margaret Lee 
140 Worcester Street 
West Boylston, MA 01583 
 
By email only: mlee@westboylston-ma.gov 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Ms. Lee: 
 
This office received two complaints from Patrick Crowley on August 11, 2022, alleging 
that the West Boylston Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The complaints were originally filed with the Board on June 7, and Board 
member Robert Barrell responded to both complaints, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated July 
14.2, 3  The complaints allege that the Board deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting.  
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we resolved these matters.  Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s response to the complaints, 
Board member John Sullivan’s supplemental response, and the complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review.  In addition, we reviewed the open session minutes of Board meetings 
held on April 20, May 11 and June 8, as well as video recordings of those three meetings.
4   
 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2022. 
2 At the time the time the Board responded to the complaints, Mr. Barrell was Chair of the Board.  Mr. Barrell is no 
longer Chair but he is still a member of the Board. 
3 We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, 
the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the 
complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of 
the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).   
4 Video recordings of the Board meetings held on April 20, May 11, and June 8 are available at https://west-
boylston.vod.castus.tv/vod.  
 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board is a five-member public body; thus, three 
members constitute a quorum. 
 
 During a meeting held on April 20, the Board heard from Cherry Tangri, a Public Health 
Prevention Specialist from the City of Worcester’s Division of Public Health, and D.J. Wilson, 
Tobacco Control Director for the Massachusetts Municipal Association, on proposed changes 
and updates to the state regulations for tobacco sales.  The Board agreed to review the 
regulations and discuss the changes that will work best for the Town and tobacco sales vendors 
at a subsequent meeting.    
 
During a meeting held on May 11, the Board continued to discuss the proposed changes 
and updates to the tobacco sales regulations and voted to accept the changes recommended by 
the state, including reducing the number of permits, issuing no new permits to establishments 
within 500 feet of an existing permitted establishment, restricting flavored tobacco products and 
flavored rolling papers, and adopting the state imposed fines for violations of the regulations.  In 
addition, the Board received an update on COVID cases from Dr. Sullivan who reported that 
Massachusetts was in the top five percent infection rate in the United States, that Worcester 
County was a high risk area, that the majority of cases were presenting with cold or flu-like 
symptoms even though hospitalizations had recently increased, and that the Center for Disease 
Control had strongly recommended wearing a mask in indoor public settings.  The Board 
concurred with the recommendation of indoor masking. 
 
On May 13, Dr. Sullivan sent an email to all Board members stating in part: “Colleagues, 
as we know our COVID cases are up, we are in high risk category by CDC . . .  I am a bit 
concerned about Mondays [sic] Town meeting being in a poorly aerated auditorium.  It would be 
best to have it outside but if that is not feasible we should require masks to be worn.  I would 
appreciate each BOH member weighing in on this.”  The Annual Town Meeting was scheduled 
for May 16 in the high school auditorium.  Three of the four Board members responded on May 
13, copying the entire Board, and expressed their thoughts on whether to require an outdoor 
meeting or that masks be worn.  
 
Also on May 13, Ms. Tangri sent an email to several Boards of Health, including Board 
Administrative Assistant Margaret Lee, advising that Boards should set a duration of days for 
suspension of a vendor’s permit if they are found selling tobacco products to minors and 
suggested that most municipalities have established a three-day suspension.  On May 16, Ms. 
Lee forwarded the email to the Board asking how the Board would like her to respond.  Board 
member John Sullivan replied to the email and copied the entire Board stating, “3 days sounds 
minimal, I would suggest 1 week.” 
 
During a June 8 meeting, the Board met with Ms. Tangri and reviewed the tobacco sales 
regulations that it had approved during the May 11 meeting.  The Board confirmed that it had 
accepted the state recommended fines for any violations listed in the proposed regulations.  
Specifically, the Board explained that it would determine any suspension of a vendor’s permit on 
a case by case basis, with a maximum suspension of 30 days.  The Board unanimously voted that 
===PAGE 3===
the regulations would become effective 30 days from the date of publication of the regulations in 
a newspaper and to inform affected vendors directly by letter.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
beration and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is 
a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  
 
The complaints allege that a quorum of the Board deliberated by email on two 
occasions.5  First, on May 13, Dr. Sullivan sent an email to the Board expressing his concerns 
about the Town Meeting scheduled for May 16 and shared his opinion that the meeting should be 
held outside or if that was not feasible that masks be worn.  Three other Board members 
responded that same day and expressed their opinions about whether the Town should hold an 
outdoor meeting or to require that masks be worn if the meeting was to remain indoors.  Second, 
on May 16, Dr. Sullivan responded to Ms. Lee’s email and copied the Board stating his opinion 
about the length of suspension of a vendor’s permit if they are found to have sold tobacco 
products to minors.  We find that the emails contain improper deliberations because these emails 
reached a quorum of the Board and included members’ opinions on matters within the Board’s 
jurisdiction.  See OML 2018-118; 2015-3; OML 2014-108; OML 2013-136; Boelter v. Board of 
Selectmen of Wayland, 479 Mass. 233, 243 (2018).  The expression of an opinion of by one 
public body member on matters within the body’s jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a 
deliberation, even if no other public body member responds.  See OML 2016-104; OML 2015-
33; OML 2012-73.  Moreover, the Open Meeting Law does not carve out an exception to the 
definition of “deliberation” for discussions that do not result in a decision or vote.  We find that 
the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating among a quorum via email.   
 
With respect to the May 13 email about whether to impose a mask mandate for Town 
Mee
ting, the Board argues that this was an emergency which did not require notice.  See G.L. c. 
111, § 31 (If the board of health determines that an emergency exists, the board or its authorized 
agent, acting in accordance with section 30 of chapter 111, may, without notice of hearing, issue 
an order reciting the existence of the emergency and requiring that such action be taken as the 
board of health deems necessary to address the emergency.).  The Division of Open 
Government’s jurisdiction concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  Therefore, we 
make no findings regarding whether notice of a public hearing was required for the Board to 
implement a mask mandate under G.L. c. 111, § 31.  However, the Open Meeting Law makes 
clear that its 48-hour notice requirement is separate from the notice requirements of other laws as 
 
5 We note that the emails were provided to the complainant in response to a public records request and were attached 
to the Open Meeting Law complaints at issue here. 
===PAGE 4===
the Open Meeting Law states that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post notice of 
every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  In an emergency, a public body shall post notice as soon as 
reasonably possible prior to such meeting.  Id.  An “emergency” is defined as “a sudden, 
generally unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding immediate action.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  Even if discussions of a possible mask mandate qualified as an emergency, the Board 
was still required to have such discussions during a properly posted meeting and not via email, 
although the meeting notice could have been posted less than 48 hours in advance of the 
meeting.  The burden of justifying the need for an emergency meeting lies with the public body.  
See OML 2012-7; OML 2010-6.  Regardless, because the discussions took place via email 
outside of a posted meeting, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law, and we need not reach 
the question of whether the circumstances here constituted an emergency. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating via email and we order the Board to publicly release the emails within 30 days of 
receipt of this determination to the extent it has not already done so.
6  In addition, we order 
immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future 
violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.    
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick Crowley – By email only:  
 West Boylston Town C lerk – By email only: enovia@westboylston-ma.gov 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
6 The Board may publicly release the e-mails by reading their content during a meeting and listing the e-mails in the 
meeting minutes, or by referencing the emails during a meeting and posting the e -mails along with the minutes on 
the municipal website.  
 
