===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL:(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
February 27, 2015 
OML 2015-28 
Robert Galvin, Esq. 
Galvin & Galvin 
10 Enterprise Street, Suite 3 
Duxbury, MA 02332 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Galvin: 
This office received a complaint from Pamela Keith dated November 13, 2014, 
alleging that the Marshfield Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about 
September 17, 2014, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated September 23, 
2014.1 In her complaint, Ms. Keith alleges that based on a letter from the Board, dated 
August 20, 2014, which was mailed to Town residents and also appeared in the local 
newspaper, it appears that the Board deliberated outside of a meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
We reviewed the September 17, 2014 complaint; your September 23, 2014 response, on 
behalf of the Board; and the November 13, 2014 complaint filed with our office, requesting 
further review. In addition, we spoke by telephone with Board members John Hall, Matthew 
McDonough, and Stephen Robbins. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board consists of three members, thus two members 
constitute a quorum. In August 2014, Representative Jim Cantwell, who represents the towns 
of Marshfield and Scituate in the state legislature, was running for re-election. A letter from 
the Board, dated August 20, 2014, in support of Representative Cantwell was sent to residents 
by mass mailing and was published in the local newspaper, the Marshfield Mariner. The 
Marshfield Mariner's headline stated, "Selectmen stand with Cantwell" and the letter 
1 For the purpose of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 2===
appearing below was signed by all three Board members "individually as members" of the 
Board. The letter began, "[a]s the Chief Financial Officers for the Town of Marshfield we 
know first-hand of the hard work Jim Cantwell puts in every day to help our Town with a 
variety of issues." The letter expressed the Board's opinion about Representative Cantwell's 
past accomplishments, including his work obtaining financial assistance for Marshfield and 
the Commonwealth. 
The letter was drafted by Representative Cantwell and/or his staff, who reached out to 
the members of the Board individually and asked them to sign on to the letter. Each member 
agreed to sign onto the letter without discussing it with any other Board member, either 
during or outside of a meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18. The law defines "deliberation," in relevant part, as "an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum 
of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." IcL 
The complainant alleges that the Board members engaged in private deliberation about 
the letter because there was no discussion during a public meeting about the letter before its 
publication. We find no evidence that any Board member discussed this letter with any other 
Board member outside of a meeting. Additionally, even if a quorum of the Board did discuss 
the letter, the race for state representative was not public business within the Board's 
jurisdiction, nor was it a matter that would come before the Board in the future. See OML 
2014-135; OML 2012-64. Statements made by public body members for political purposes 
that do not involve matters presently or likely to come under consideration by the public body 
in the future are not communications on public business within the jurisdiction of the body, 
regardless of whether they are made by an individual public body member or by the members 
collectively. Id. Thus, we find that the Board members did not deliberate, and accordingly 
find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
2 
===PAGE 3===
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Pamela Keith 
Marshfield Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 