===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 21, 2017 
OML 2017-177 
David C. Jenkins, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Jenkins: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins, dated July 7, alleging that the 
Westport Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on June 16, and the Board responded by 
letter dated July 11. In his complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that the Board failed to identify in the 
meeting notice the names and positions for individuals to be considered for appointment at a 
meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged 
in the complaint. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's 
response, and the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice 
and minutes of a Board meeting held on June 12. We reviewed a document provided by the 
Board summarizing appointments made for fiscal year 2017, as well as lists of applicants for 
appointment and reappointment to be discussed during the Board's June 12 meeting. Finally, we 
spoke with the Board's legal counsel by telephone on November 14.1 
We find the facts as follows. The complaint concerns a Board meeting held on June 12. 
The notice for this meeting—which was posted on a municipal bulletin board—listed, among 
other topics, "Annual Appointments." The notice did not provide any other information about 
1 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
these appointments. On the town website, under a link called "Town Resources," there was a 
link of an eleven-page list of appointments to be made for fiscal year 2017.2 
The Board convened the June 12 meeting as planned. Prior to this meeting, the Board 
had prepared separate lists, taken from the eleven-page master list, of specific appointments and 
reappointments to be discussed during the June 12 meeting. During the portion of the meeting 
reserved for "Annual Appointments," the Board voted to appoint approximately 75 individuals to 
town board and committee positions. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice of every meeting at least 48 
hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b). 
Notices must include "a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting." Id. The listing of topics must be listed with sufficient detail to reasonably advise 
the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(1 )(b). We generally 
consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read 
the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-
35. 
The June 12 meeting notice listed "Annual Appointments," but it did not list the positions 
to be filled, nor the candidates for appointment. In past determinations, we have stated that 
notices must include specific details about appointments to be made and anticipated applicants. 
See OML 2017-148; OML 2016-167. This information gives members of the public necessary 
information about the positions or applicants the Board intends to consider. Where information 
about such appointments cannot fit on a meeting notice, a public body may reference additional 
information to be found at the municipal clerk's office or at another easily accessible location. 
See OML 2017-148.3 For example, where a public body posts a notice for annual appointments 
that, because of the large number of appointments, consists of many pages that would not fit on a 
bulletin board, the body may post a notice listing the specific positions to be appointed and refer 
the public to the town clerk's office for the full details and list of candidates. Id. However, this 
guidance should be followed only where it is not practical to post the full list of positions and 
individuals to the bulletin board or other notice posting location. 
Here, the Board anticipated discussing the appointment or reappointment of specific 
individuals during the June 12 meeting. The Board does not assert that it was impractical to list 
the positions to be filled or the names of the candidates for appointment. If the Board believed 
that the information identifying the anticipated appointments could not have fit on or with the 
notice, the Board could have listed the website as a resource where interested members of the 
public could have reviewed the important information about the anticipated appointments. 
Based on the foregoing, we find that the Board's June 12 meeting notice lacked sufficient detail 
to meet the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. 
2 The Town of Westport has not adopted a municipal website for notice posting purposes and, therefore, the default 
location for notice posting is a bulletin board in or on the building where the clerk's office is located. See G.L. c. 
3OA, § 20(c); 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b). 
3 We note that the Swansea Board of Selectmen have sought review of this determination in Superior Court. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board's June 12 meeting notice was not 
sufficiently detailed. We order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the law, and 
caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
Westport Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 