===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
May 10, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 76 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Carolyn M. Murray, Esq. 
KP|Law 
cmurray@k-plaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Murray: 
 
This office received two complaints from Jill Mann on October 25 and 28, 2022,
1 
alleging that the Hubbardston Select Board (the “Board”),2 violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The first complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about October 5, 
and, after an extension of time granted by this office, you responded on behalf of the Board by 
letter dated October 27. The second complaint was filed with the Board on or about October 14, 
and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated October 27. The first complaint alleges 
that several sets of executive session meeting minutes are insufficiently detailed where they do 
not capture discussion of complaints brought against three Hubbardston Police Department 
officers, including the Chief of Police. The second complaint alleges that recordings of two 
executive sessions held by the Board were posted online and that Board members made 
derogatory comments about the Complainant which were captured in the recordings.   
 
After review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged in 
the October 5 complaint. We decline to review the October 14 complaint. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the Board’s responses, and the 
requests for further review. We also reviewed the minutes of executive sessions held on August 
22, September 6, and September 19.  
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The complaint also alleges that the Interim Town Administrator violated the Open Meeting Law.  The Open 
Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and individuals acting as public body members; therefore, we decline to 
review any allegations that the Interim Town Administrator violated the Open Meeting Law . See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25; OML Declination 3-13-2020 (Bourne Board of Selectmen).  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The October 5 Complaint 
 
The complaint alleges that minutes of the Board’s executive sessions held on August 22, 
September 6, and September 19, which have all been released to the public, are insufficient 
where they do not capture discussion of complaints brought against three Hubbardston Police 
Department officers, including the Chief of Police.3 The Board explains that on August 22 and 
September 6 it met in executive session to review the minutes of its August 15 and 22 executive 
sessions and discussed whether to release those minutes. The Board further explains that on 
September 19 it met in executive session to discuss an Open Meeting Law complaint filed by the 
Complainant on August 31. Finally, the Board states that “[t]he minutes at issue [in the present 
case] do not contain a discussion regarding the Police Complaint because the Police Complaint 
itself - apart from the fact that it was the topic contained in the minutes [being reviewed] - was 
not substantively discussed by the Board on those dates.”
4  
 
The Open Meeting Law does not dictate the content of a discussion at a meeting; rather, 
it requ
ires that meeting minutes accurately summarize what was actually discussed. See OML 
2015-155 (explaining that minutes should reflect what was actually discussed at a meeting, not 
matters that were not discussed).
5 Therefore, we review whether the minutes accurately 
summarize the discussions that took place, not whether any particular information was 
documented in the minutes. The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies “create and 
maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, 
time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a 
list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions 
taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  
 
When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for 
subs
tantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2017-104; OML 2013-64. By 
substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so 
that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2019-145; OML 2012-106. Although a 
transcript of the discussions is not required, and the minutes need not include every remark or 
opinion presented, minutes must include a substantive summary of the discussion on each topic. 
 
3 The complaint raises the same allegations regarding minutes for executive sessions held on August 15 and October 
3. We decline to review these sets of minutes. The Complainant previously alleged that the August 15 executive 
session minutes were insufficient in a complaint dated August 31. We resolved the August 31 complaint on October 
14 and issued determination letter OML 2022-189, in which we found the minutes insufficient and ordered the 
Board to amend the minutes. We decline to review again whether the original August 15 minutes were insufficient. 
The October 3 minutes were not yet created or approved at the time the October 5 complaint was filed  with the 
Board; therefore, we decline to review those minutes as well. See OML Declination 12-18-20 (Fall River Housing 
Authority Board of Commissioners); OML 2014-62; OML 2019-11.  
Finally, although the Board provided a copy of the August 22 executive session minutes with its response to the 
August
 31 complaint, because those minutes were not the subject of the August 31 compliant , we did not review 
their sufficiency. We now review the sufficiency of the August 22 executive session minutes provided to our office 
by the Board in response to the August 31 complaint resolved by OML 2022- 189.  
4 The minutes of the September 6 executive session reflect that the Board did have some discussion regarding threats 
of litigation made by the Complainant as well as an ongoing litigation matter involving the Complainant.  
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
See OML 2020-18. Minute s of executive sessions must include the same level of detail as is 
required for open sessions. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2020-53. 
 
After review of the August 22, September 6, and September 19 executive session 
minutes, we find that all three sets of minutes, with respect to the discussions at issue in this 
complaint, are sufficient to comply with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law.  
 
Finally, we note that the notices for the Board’s August 22 and September 6 executive 
se
ssions did not specify that the Board would convene in executive session to review prior 
executive session meeting minutes. Instead, the notices cited the language of G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”), the original purpose for the August 15 executive session. A public may 
cite to either the original executive session purpose or G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7) (“Purpose 7”), 
citing to the Open Meeting Law, when convening in executive session to review executive 
session minutes. See OML 2020-120; OML 2015-94; OML 2013-199. However, had the Board 
indicated on the notices for, and announcements prior to, its August 22 and September 6 
executive sessions that the purpose was to review its August 15 and August 22 executive session 
minutes, it may have prevented confusion or inaccurate assumptions as to what would be 
discussed in the executive sessions.  
 
The 
October 14 Complaint  
 
The October 14 complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when 
recordings of its September 6 and 19 executive sessions were posted online. Additionally, the 
complaint alleges that Board members made derogatory comments about the Complainant which 
were captured in the recordings that were posted online. 
 
We decline to rev
 iew the October 14 complaint because the allegations raised, even if 
true, do not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2019- 55, n. 3; OML 
Declination 7-2-18 (Edgartown Planning Board). Although the Open Meeting Law allows a 
public body to meet in executive session for certain enumerated purposes, it does not require that 
matters discussed in an executive session be kept confidential. Likewise, an allegation of 
unprofessional conduct or incivility towards a member of the public does not constitute a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. See OML Declination 9-4-2020 (Walpole Board of 
Selectmen); OML 2020-36, n. 5; OML Declination 3-31-2020 (Sterling Board of Selectmen).6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 We note that there may be other laws or rules that require confidentiality, but the Open Meeting Law does not. 
Additionally, we do not opine as to whether any statements made by members of the Board ma y constitute 
defamation as the Complainant asserts.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
 
Sincerely,      
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Jeffrey L. Williams, Chair, Hubbardston Select Board (via email: 
jwilliams@hubbardstonma.us) 
 Hubbardston Select Board (via email: bos@hubbardstonma.us) 
Jill Mann (via e-mail: ) 
Hubbardston Town Clerk (via email: tclerk@hubbardstonma.us) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
