===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
 
August 12, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 108 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Hayley A. Reifeiss, Esq. 
K.P. Law, PC 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
hreifeiss@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Reifeiss: 
 
This office received a complaint from Jytte Klausen on June 1, 2026,
1 alleging that the 
Truro Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 13, and you responded on behalf of the 
Board by letter dated May 5.2 The complaint alleges that the Board 1) failed to provide evidence 
justifying the adoption of new beach regulations, 2) deliberated outside of a posted meeting, and 
3) engaged in “bad faith” deliberations. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, 
the Board’s response and attachments, the request for further review and attachments, as well as 
the notices and minutes of Board meetings held on March 10, March 24, and March 31. 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2026 unless otherwise stated. 
2 We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, 
the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the 
complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of 
the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Board is a five-member public body; thus, a 
quorum is three members.  
 
In July of 2025, several Piping Plover chicks, an endangered species, were found dead 
along Fisher Beach, a town beach in Truro. Following the incident, officials from the 
Massachusetts Division of Fisheries and Wildlife (also referred to as MassWildlife), Mass 
Audubon, and the United States Fish and Wildlife Service exchanged numerous emails with the 
Truro Conservation Department and Truro Conservation Trust to discuss the seriousness of the 
issue and ways the Town could comply with relevant state and federal regulations to protect the 
endangered Piping Plovers. As the chief policy-making body of the town of Truro, the Board 
discussed amending the Town’s beach regulations to require that dogs be leashed when walking 
on certain beaches during the bird’s nesting season and prohibiting dogs from the beaches when 
the chicks hatch. 
 
First, during a properly posted meeting held on March 10, the Board received a 
presentation from the Truro Health and Conservation Agent and Assistant Health and 
Conservation Agent regarding amendments to the Town’s beach regulations. The proposed 
amendments included a requirement that dogs be leashed at all times when walking on certain 
beaches from April 1 to Labor Day, and that beaches would be closed to all pets during shorebird 
nesting season. The Board received public comment and then discussed the logistics of the 
proposed amendments and potential compromises. Next, during a properly posted meeting held 
on March 24, the Board continued to discuss enforcement and practicality of the proposed 
amendments to the beach regulations, and again received public comment. The proposed 
regulations still required all dogs to be leashed when walking on beaches between April 1 and 
August 31 but allowed the Town to prohibit dogs from portions of beaches during nesting season 
rather than restricting access to the whole beach. Finally, during a properly posted meeting held 
on March 31, the Board reviewed the proposed regulations for the final time and expressed the 
difficulty in balancing the right to access the beaches with the obligation to protect endangered 
species. Ultimately, Board member John Dundas made a motion to “adopt the proposed revisions 
to the Town of Truro Beach Rules and Regulations,” which motion was seconded by Chair 
Susan Areson, and the Board voted by majority vote to adopt the new beach regulations. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law By Failing to Provide Evidence 
Justifying the Adoption of New Beach Regulations. 
The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it failed to 
provide evidence or documentation supporting the decision to adopt the new beach regulations. 
The Open Meeting Law itself does not include any requirement that public bodies provide 
justification or explanation for their actions, nor does it establish requirements for the level of 
detail a public body’s discussions must include. See 2026-69 (declining to review allegation that 
public body failed to provide an explanation of what was discussed during a given meeting); 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
OML 2023-212 (declining to review allegation that public body did not provide any reasoning to 
justify a decision made by the public body); see also OML 2019-13; OML 2014-86.3  
 
The Law does require that a public body create and maintain accurate meeting minutes 
and provide such minutes if requested. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). Additionally, certain records 
must be provided in response to a request made under the Public Records Law. G.L. c. 66, § 10. 
However, here there is no suggestion that the complainant requested, but did not receive, 
meeting minutes or other documents from the Board. Regardless, the Open Meeting Law does 
not govern a public body’s response to a request for records other than meeting minutes. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). Rather, a request for documents other than minutes, such as a necropsy 
report, would fall under the Public Records Law, and is beyond the scope of the Open Meeting 
Law. See OML 2026-69; OML 2023-89.  
 
To the extent that the complaint alleges that the Board failed to list certain documents, 
such as evidence detailing the cause of the Piping Plovers’ deaths, within its meeting minutes, 
we find that this allegation was not clearly raised in the original complaint filed with the Board 
and thus we do not review its merits. We generally decline to review allegations that were not 
included within the original complaint to a public body because the public body would not have 
an opportunity to respond to it. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3). Nevertheless, we 
remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires minutes to include “a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). We have said that a document is 
“used,” and must be listed in the minutes, when the document is 1) physically present, 2) 
verbally identified, and 3) its contents discussed by the public body during a meeting. See OML 
2026-80; OML 2025-6; OML 2024-217. 
 
II. We Find No Evidence that the Board Engaged in Improper Deliberations 
Outside of a Properly Posted Meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Thus, the Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a) & (b), 21. The Open Meeting Law defines a “meeting” as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. Deliberation is defined, in relevant part, as “an oral or written communication through 
any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction.” Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum 
is generally a simple majority of the members of the public body. Id. Expression of an opinion 
on matters within a body's jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no 
other public body member responds. See OML 2014-148; OML 2013-29; OML 2013-27; OML 
2012-15. 
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
The complaint alleges that a “secret discussion” took place between Board members, 
Town officials, and MassWildlife in violation of the Open Meeting Law. Although the complaint 
does not reference a specific time frame for these “secret” discussions, the complainant provided 
our office with 316 pages of emails. After review, we do not find any communications between a 
quorum of Board members. Rather, the majority of emails were between employees of 
MassWildlife, Mass Audubon, and the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, or between 
MassWildlife employees and the Town’s Health and Conservation Agent and Assistant Health 
and Conservation Agent. The Open Meeting Law only applies to public bodies. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The law defines “public body” as “a multiple-member board, commission, committee 
or subcommittee ... however created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to 
serve a public purpose[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Both the Health and Conservation Agent and 
Assistant Heath and Conservation Agent are individual employees of the Town of Truro and are 
not considered a multiple-member board or committee. See OML 2021-77, n.2 (finding a Town 
Administrator not subject to the Open Meeting Law); OML Declination 5-16-19 (Bourne Town 
Clerk) (finding Town Clerk not subject to the Open Meeting Law); OML Declination 12-15-15 
(Lawrence City Clerk) (finding City Clerk not subject to the Open Meeting Law). As such, any 
communications between the Agents and MassWildlife, Mass Audubon, or the United States 
Fish and Wildlife Service would not constitute deliberation in violation of the Open Meeting 
Law. 
 
 We note that one member of the Board, Chair Areson, communicated with the Truro 
Health and Conservation Agent, Assistant Health and Conservation Agent, Town Manager, and a 
resident. However, because the communications were between only one Board member and 
individual public officials or a member of the public, who are not subject to the Open Meeting 
Law, such communications did not constitute deliberation. See OML 2020-71. As such, we find 
that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. Further, although a public body may not 
use a non-member, such as a staff member, to facilitate communication on matters that the Board 
would otherwise be required to save for discussion at an open meeting, we find no indication that 
occurred here. See OML 2016-172; see also Dist. Atty for the Northern Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of 
Wayland, 451 Mass. 561, 570-571 (2009).  
 
The complaint also alleges that the Board voted to adopt the beach regulations without 
substantive discussion and engaged in “bad-faith deliberations” such that the “outcome was 
predetermined.” As previously explained, the Open Meeting Law does not require a public body 
to discuss any topic, nor does it establish requirements for the level of detail a public body’s 
discussions must include. See OML 2019-13; OML 2014-86. The Law simply requires that a 
discussion between or among a quorum of the Board take place during a properly noticed 
meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(a) & (b). Moreover, we have previously explained that 
agreement without substantive discussion among public body members, or even the lack of 
substantive discussion prior to a vote, is insufficient to support the inference that members 
deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. See OML 2021-42; OML 2020-7; OML 2017-125; 
OML 2017-93. Therefore, because we find no evidence that a quorum of the Board deliberated 
outside of a posted meeting, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
 Finally, t he complaint suggests that communications between Town officials and 
MassWildlife violated the Conflict of Interest Law, G.L. c. 268A.The Division of Open 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Government’s review concerns compliance only with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. Even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law, 
and we therefore decline to review it. See OML 2019-48; OML Declination 8-28-12 (Sterling 
Board of Selectmen); OML Declination 10-4-11 (Falmouth Historic Districts Commission). 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by Ian Harvey, Legal Intern 
 
 
cc: Jytte Klausen (via email: ) 
Susan Areson; Chair, Truro Select Board (via email: sareson@truro-ma.gov)  
Nicole Tudor; Truro Town Clerk (via email: ntudor@truro-ma.gov) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
