===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
AUORNEY 'GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
December 17, 2010 
OML 2010-6 
Amy Bailin, Chair 
Board of Trustees 
Gloucester Community Arts Charter School 
P.O. Box 1631 
Gloucester, MA 01930 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Ms. BallM, 
Our office has reviewed two complaints dated February 18, 2010 alleging 
violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 11A1/2, by the Board of Trustees of 
the Gloucester Community Arts Charter School (the "Board").1  We have also received a 
complaint dated September 14, 2010 alleging a violation of the revised Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in 
three instances detailed below. We believe that the Board's actions demonstrate a need 
for additional education and training with respect to the duties and obligations imposed 
by the law. 
In making our determinations, we reviewed the February 18, 2010 complaint by 
Jane Cunningham, the February 18, 2010 complaint by Beth Morris, and the September 
14, 2010 complaint by Kathleen Clancy.2  We reviewed the Board's March 18, 2010 
responses to the first two complaints, a July 9, 2010 letter from the Board's counsel in 
response to the complaints as well as an October 6, 2010 letter from the Board's counsel 
in response to questions from our office, and a November 10, 2010 letter from the 
Board's counsel addressing the September 14, 2010 complaint. We also reviewed the 
Board's meetings minutes from December 2, 2009, December 9, 2009, December 16, 
2009 (including executive session), January 6, 2010 (including 
G.L. c. 30A, §11A 1/2 was replaced on July 1, 2010 by G.L. C. 30A §§ 18-25. Because the first two 
complaints were filed with our office prior to July 1, 2010, we reviewed them under G.L. c. 30A §11A 1/2. 
2  We recognize that all three complainants have publicly advocated against the establishment of GCACS 
and that at least one is a named plaintiff in litigation challenging the existence of the School's charter. 
Regardless, we evaluate the complaints on their merits and address the concerns raised by the complainants 
as members of the public who have a right to witness the deliberations of a public body, 
C) 
===PAGE 2===
executive session), January 9, 2010, January 13, 2010, March 3, 2010, and September 13, 2010. 
Finally, we conducted a phone interview with Board Counsel Colin Zick and Board members 
Amy B allM and David Buchanan on December 6, 2010. 
FACTS 
The Gloucester Community Arts Charter School (the "School") is a public chaster school 
serving grades 4 - 7 located in Gloucester, Massachusetts. The Board of Trustees of the School 
is a seven member state public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The school officially opened on September 23, 2010. 
The Board met initially on March 13, 2009. The complaints that are the subject of this 
decision allege violations by the Board between December 2, 2009 and the opening of the school 
on September 23, 2010. Below we summarize the relevant facts gained from our review of the 
open and executive session minutes and interviews with members of the Board. 
December 16, 2009 Board Meeting 
On December 16, 2009, the Board's Hiring Committee met in an open session and 
discussed candidates for Head of School. The Hiring Committee was a sub-committee of the full 
Board made up of four members and was subject to the Open Meeting Law. The minutes of the 
meeting reflect that, following a discussion, the Hiring Committee voted unanimously to 
recommend Ljuba Marsh to the Board for the position. Following the vote of the Hiring 
Committee, the Board convened in open session. The minutes reflect that the Hiring Committee 
reported to the Board its choice of Ms. Marsh. The Board then entered executive session for 
approximately 15 minutes, "so the Board could speak to the specifics of the negotiation with a 
candidate for Head of School for both consulting contract and permanent employment." The 
minutes further state that "[d]iscussion of this topic in open meeting could be detrimental to the 
school's negotiating position." The Board discussed and agreed in executive session on offer 
terms for Ms. Marsh. After returning from executive session, the Board voted to make an offer 
to Ms. Marsh according to the terms agreed upon in the executive session. Between this meeting 
and the January 9, 2010 meeting of the Board, Ms. Marsh ultimately declined the offer. 
January 6, 2010 Board Meeting 
On January 6, 2010, the Board convened an open meeting and met with the Board's 
Counsel, Colin Zick. The minutes reflect that Mr. Zick outlined three possible justifications for 
entering executive session. Those justifications were: "1. To discuss on-going negotiations with 
a potential Head of School, if holding the discussion in an open meeting would be detrimental to 
the school's negotiating position. 2. To discuss on-going negotiations regarding the draft Lease 
for premises for the school, if holding the discussion in an open meeting would [be] detrimental 
to the school's negotiating position. 3. To discuss possible litigation, if holding the discussion in 
an open meeting would [be] detrimental to the school's litigation position." 
According to the minutes of the January 6, 2010 meeting, the Board entered executive 
session, "to discuss the strength and future viability of the charter in light of recent challenges 
2 
===PAGE 3===
from the Legislature and the Inspector General, which have direct implications for on-going 
negotiations with a candidate for head of school and on-going lease negotiations. Those 
developments also warranted discussion of potential legislation or certain states officials." On 
the day prior to this meeting, January, 5, 2010, the Inspector General had released a report 
challenging the validity of the procedures followed by the Department of Elementary and 
Secondary Education in approving the School's charter. 
The executive session lasted for approximately two hours, according to the minutes. We 
note that the executive session minutes from this meeting have not yet been publicly released. 
According to the minutes we reviewed and interviews we conducted, the executive session 
consisted primatily of Board counsel providing legal advice to the Board regarding the potential 
consequences of entering into two agreements if the Board's charter was revoked as the result of 
the Inspector General's report. The specific agreements under consideration were the Head of 
School offer to Ljuba Marsh and the lease agreement for 7-11 Pleasant Street3  as the School's 
location. The minutes indicate that Board counsel "spoke to the risk and impact on the lease and 
head of school contract" if the charter were returned or revoked. 
The minutes reflect that during the executive session, the Board was also updated on the 
progress of legislative amendments which, if adopted, would impact the School. Our office 
interviewed Board members and Mr. Zick, and it appears that most of the updates on the 
legislative amendments and their legal consequences came from Mr. Zick. The Board then 
discussed the Inspector General's report, although from interviews it appears that most of the 
discussion centered on Mr. Zick explaining the legal consequences of the report. During this 
discussion, one Board member expressed frustration with the process and asked whether the 
School should even continue. The rest of the Board disagreed and reaffirmed their commitment 
to move forward with the charter. 
The minutes of the executive session include an acknowledgment that the Board should 
hold off on any discussions or decisions on the enrollment policy and signing of a lease, and that 
such discussions should be held in open session. The enrollment policy is an important 
component of a charter school's operating plan that, among other provisions, sets forth the grade 
levels that the school is prepared to educate. The minutes of the Board's open session show that 
upon reconvening in open session following the conclusion of executive session on January 6, 
2010, "the Board voted to table discussions regarding the...enrollment policy until the board 
next convenes due to pending amendments in the House that could impair the charter." 
January 9, 2010 Board Meeting 
In October 2009, the Board entered into a contract with Transchool, with Susan Jamback 
serving as project manager during the pre-opening phase of the School. Transchool is an 
educational consulting company owned and managed by Susan Jamback that provides guidance 
on the development and operation of charter schools. On January 9, 2010, the Board met in open 
session with Matthew Gallup, who was hired by Susan Jamback under the Transchool contract. 
Apparently, Ms. Jamback stepped down as project manager in January, 2010 and Mr. Mr. Gallup 
replaced her as interim director of the school. See  Board's October 6, 2010 Response to 
Interrogatories. According to the Board, he and Ms. Jamback then re-opened the search for Head 
3  Also known as Brown's Mall, and referred to as such interchangeably in the minutes of the Board. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
of School candidates. Id. 
Although the minutes reflect that Mr. Gallup attended the January 9, 2010 meeting and 
presented a number of topics, the minutes do not reflect his introduction to the Board or any 
discussion about his position or role. According to the Board, "Matthew Gallup, also with 
Transchool, replaced Sue Jamback as project manager on January 9, 2010. The Board did not 
conduct a formal vote to offer him a position at GCACS because it already had approved the 
contract with Transchool for the project manager services that he was to perfatni." Id. 
During the meeting, Mr. Gallup presented a revised enrollment plan for GCAS, which 
expanded proposed enrollment by adding students in grades K-2. The original plan had limited 
enrollment to students in grades 4-7. After discussion, the Board voted unanimously to accept 
the revised plan. 
Following the presentation on the revised enrollment plan, the lease for 7-11 Pleasant 
Street was presented. After discussion, the Board voted unanimously to approve the location and 
accept the lease. 
March 3, 2010 Board Meeting 
The Board convened a meeting on March 3, 2010, and voted to re-approve the original 
enrollment plan, limiting enrollment once again to students in grades 4-7. The Board 
acknowledged that the revised enrollment plan expanding enrollment to grades K-2 had not been 
approved by the Gloucester Public Schools. The original enrollment plan providing for grades 4- 
7 had been approved as part of the School's charter, filed on November 14, 2008. In his October 
6, 2010 letter, the Board's counsel explained that: 
It is true that the GCACS Board voted at the January 9, 2010 meeting to adopt a revised 
enrollment plan, which would have changed the school to begin with grades K-2. 
However, this proposed change could not be made by GCACS alone; it had to be 
approved by the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education or the School 
Committee of the Gloucester Public Schools. The approval was not forthcoming and the 
proposed change was therefore not implemented. Accordingly, the original approved plan 
for grades 4-7 has remained in place since November 2008. 
Because the original enrollment plan had been approved by the Board of Secondary and 
Elementary Education, the Board reasoned, "no further decision . . needed to be made by the 
GCACS Board regarding applications for grades 4-7." 
During the March 3, 2010 meeting the Board also voted to approve a lease for the 
School's facilities at 2 Blackburn Drive in Gloucester. The lease presented had already been 
signed by the landlord. There was discussion among the Board members about the benefits of 
the location. There was no discussion about the prior location under consideration, 7-11 Pleasant 
Street, also known as Brown's Mall. According to the Board, no discussion of the previous 
location was necessary because the change in locations had been previously agreed upon by the 
Board. It is unclear at which meeting the Board reached this decision. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
September 13, 2010 Board Meeting 
During the month of September 2010, the Board built modular classrooms to have 
sufficient space to open the School while the Blackburn Drive location was being renovated. 
City inspectors had to approve the modular classrooms for occupancy before the classrooms 
could open. The School was slated to open on Monday September 13, 2010. Under the terms of 
the School's charter, if the School did not open by September 24, 2010, the charter would be 
revoked by the Commonwealth 
An article in the Gloucester Daily Times published on Thursday, September 9, 2010 
stated that "[t]he status of temporary mobile classrooms provided by modular ModSpace 
continue to cloud the scheduled Monday opening of the Gloucester Community Arts Charter 
School." Patrick Anderson, Charter Still Under Clouds, GLOUCESTER DAILY TIMES, September 
9, 2010. The article went on to state that "GCACS Executive Director Tony Blackman 
confirmed that "if the modulars [were] not ready, Gloucester Community Arts has alternative 
classroom sites that it has scouted." The article added that Blackman "declined to say" where 
those sites were. Id. The next day, the Gloucester Daily Times indicated that one of those sites 
might be the Windhover Center for the Performing Arts in Rockport, reporting that "Blackman, 
who was staking out alternative classroom sites on Thursday, said that with summer gone, the 
charter school would have Windhover's mini-campus all to itself." Patrick Anderson, 
GLOUCESTER DAILY TIMES, Charter Start Now Wednesday in Rockport, September 10, 2010. 
On Friday, September 10, 2010, the School held a pot-luck dinner and meeting for 
students' parents from 4:00-6:00 p.m. During this meeting it was announced that, due to delays 
with the modular classrooms, the School's opening would be pushed back to Wednesday 
September 15, 2010, and the School would open initially in Rockport. That same day a news 
report stated that, "[t]he Gloucester Community Arts Charter School will open its doors for the 
first time in Rockport -- not Gloucester -- and on Wednesday, not Monday as planned, school 
leaders announced Friday." Id. 
According to the Board counsel's letter to this office dated November 8, 2010, Mr. 
Blackman learned of a delay related to the modular buildings on September 10, 2010. Mr. 
Blackman knew at that point that the delay would result in the inability of the school to open. 
Therefore, he immediately began to look for alternatives. 
The next say, Saturday, September 11, 2010, Mr. Blackman asked Board Chair Amy 
Ballin to hold an emergency Board meeting to discuss the need for a location change and what it 
would mean for the start of school. Notice of this meeting was sent to the Secretary of State's 
office the following day, on Sunday, September 12, 2010, The meeting took place on Monday, 
September 13, 2010 at 11:00 a.m. At the meeting, the Board approved moving the School 
temporarily to the Rockport location and delaying the start date. The School eventually opened 
on September 23, 2010 in the modular classrooms at the Gloucester location. 
===PAGE 6===
DISCUSSION 
Complaint 1 
The first complaint was filed on February 18, 2010 by Jane Stewart Curmingham. The 
complaint alleges that, on January 6, 2010, the Board entered into executive session and 
improperly deliberated on matters unrelated to the stated purpose for which the Board entered the 
session. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board went beyond the stated purpose by 
"discussing the revised enrollment policy" for the school and that "the board voted on whether or 
not to 'go forward' in light of the Inspector General's findings regarding the GCACS." 
A. Deliberations on revised enrollment policy 
We first consider the allegation that a revised enrollment policy was discussed by the 
Board during executive session on January 6, 2010. The executive session minutes do not reveal 
such a discussion. In fact, the minutes reflect both the Board's awareness that the school's 
enrollment plan should be discussed in open session, and its intent to conduct that discussion in 
open session. The ininutes of the Board further show that upon reconvening in open session 
following the conclusion of executive session, "the Board voted to table discussions regarding 
the...enrollment policy until the board next convenes..." Based upon our review of the open and 
executive session minutes we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law with regard to this 
allegation. 
B. Deliberations on continuing as a charter school 
Next, we consider the allegation that the Board improperly discussed whether to 
continue as a charter school in executive session. Under the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 
11 1/2, a governmental body may enter executive session for seven enumerated purposes, 
including to "discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining" and "consider the purchase, 
exchange, lease or value of real property." The minutes of the open session indicate that on 
January 6th, the Board entered executive session for the purpose of "discuss[ing] the strength and 
viability of the charter and the impact of that status, in light of on going negotiations with head 
of school and on going lease negotiations, and the consideration of possible litigation to protect 
the charter against recent actions by the Legislature and the Inspector General." Once in 
executive session, the Board engaged in a broad-ranging discussion of legal matters with its 
counsel. During the discussion, the minutes indicate that Board counsel "spoke to the risk and 
impact on the lease and head of school contract" if the charter were returned or revoked. 
The attorney/client privilege is not an explicitly enumerated purpose for which a public 
body may enter executive session. While a public body may meet in executive session to 
conununicate with counsel, it may do so only for one of the enumerated purposes for executive 
session. See District Attorney for Plymouth District v. Board of Selectmen of Middleborough, 
395 Mass. 629, 633 (Mass. 1985). However, doing so does not allow the Board free reign to 
discuss substantive and important issues appropriately left for discussion during open session. 
See District Attorney for the Northwestern District v. Selectmen of Sunderland, 11 Mass. App. 
Ct. 663, 666 (1981) (executive session may not be used as a blanket reason to deliberate on 
6 
===PAGE 7===
matters other than those pertaining to the specific purpose for which executive session was 
called). 
To the extent that the discussion during the January 6' executive session of the Board 
included the consideration of a lease for real property that entailed receiving the advice of 
counsel, this discussion was appropriate for executive session. However, the minutes clearly 
indicate that the discussion also encompassed broader topics. These topics did not fall under the 
stated purpose for entering executive session as they included the potential consequences of a 
report issued by the Inspector General; proposed legislation concerning the charter school; and 
the chartering process. According to interviews with members of the Board, much of this 
discussion occurred while the Board's counsel was providing legal advice regarding the lease 
agreement and employment contract under consideration by the Board. 
We acknowledge that the task of managing the flow of conversation about all manner of 
public business can be complicated. Nevertheless, it is incumbent upon the public body to 
carefully monitor the subject matter of discussion when in executive session to ensure that topics 
do not stray from the purpose for which the executive session was called. Here, while the Board 
maintains that discussion during the executive session was focused on obtaining the advice of 
counsel as it pertained to the lease and employment contract, the minutes reflect some discussion 
by Board members about substantive issues beyond the narrow purpose of the executive session. 
We find that this portion of the discussion was inappropriately held during executive session and 
was therefore a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
Complaint 2. 
The second complaint, filed on February 18, 2010 by Beth T. Morris, alleges that the 
Board of Trustees improperly deliberated outside of a public meeting multiple times between 
January 13, 2010 and February 18, 2010. Specifically, the complaint alleges that since the 
January 13, 2010 Board meeting, "Brown's Mall has been dropped from consideration and the 
board is actively pursuing other facility options...Matthew Gallup has been appointed Interim 
Director of the school. The [Department of Elementary and Secondary Education] declined the 
enrollment plan change request and applications have been fielded for 4-7 grade students...Yet 
there have been no public meetings." 
In the process of investigating these allegations, our office uncovered additional evidence 
of another violation pertaining to deliberations about personnel decisions outside of a posted 
meeting. 
A. Deliberation on personnel decisions outside a posted meeting  
1. Negotiation of the contract with Ms. Marsh 
During this office's investigation, we determined that, on December 16, 2009, the Board 
convened in executive session during which the Board approved an offer to Head of School 
candidate Ljuba Marsh. The minutes of the December 16, 2009 Hiring Committee Meeting and 
the December 16, 2009 Board of Trustees meeting reflect that the Board discussed the candidacy 
of Ms. Marsh in open session, and ultimately voted to make her an offer in open session. The 
7 
===PAGE 8===
Board then voted to meet in executive session, citing as a reason "the negotiation for both the 
consulting contract and permanent employment," of Ms. Marsh. 
The Open Meeting Law in effect at the time of the alleged violation provided that a 
governmental body may meet in executive session "to discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining." G.L. c. 30A § 11 IA. Accordingly, under the plain language of the statute, only 
contracts that were the subject of collective bargaining could be discussed during a properly 
entered executive session.' Accordingly, the deliberation undertaken by the Board in executive 
session with regard to the contract with Ms. Marsh was in violation of the Open Meeting Law in 
effect on December 16, 2010. 
2. Appointment of Mr. Gallup as Interim Director of School 
The first allegation we consider from the complaint filed by Beth T. Morris asserts that 
the Board appointed Matthew Gallup Interim Director without deliberation in an open meeting. 
This followed Ms. Marsh's ultimate withdrawal tlom consideration for Head of School. In the 
Board's October 6, 2010 response to a series of questions posed by this office the Board 
indicated that "[o]n or about January 9, 2010, Lujuba Marsh withdrew from consideration as a 
candidate for GCACS Head of School. Acting on the direction given in the motion voted on by 
the Hiring Committee on December 16, 2009, Sue Jamback and Matt Gallup re-opened the 
search for new candidates." The October 6th letter from Board Counsel goes on to state that, 
"Matthew Gallup, also with Transchool, replaced Sue Jamback as project manager on January 9, 
2010. The Board did not conduct a formal vote to offer him a position at GCACS because it 
already had approved the contract with Transchool for the project manager services that he was 
to perform." Transchool is a consulting company owned and managed by Susan Jamback that 
had been hired by the Board to oversee the establishment and opening of the school. 
Upon further review of the minutes and further information gained from interviews with 
Board members, this series of decisions and events appears to have resulted in Matthew Gallup 
assuming the title of Interim Director of the School. However, this decision-making process is 
not clearly spelled out in any of the minutes retained by the Board. In fact, there is no reference 
to Mr. Gallup's appointment in any of the minutes provided by the Board. Instead, the only 
reference to the appointment is in the response by GCACS to Complaint 2, dated March 18, 
2010. 
Given the presumed importance of the position of Interim Director, discussion about the 
appointment is notably absent from the minutes of open sessions and executive sessions 
reviewed by our office. Arguably, the appointment was a logical result of the contract for project 
manager services referenced in Board Counsel's October 6 letter. However, it is not 
unreasonable for the public to anticipate that such a significant decision would be deliberated 
upon or, at the very least, mentioned by the Board during a meeting. Accordingly, while the 
information received and reviewed by our office does not conclusively establish a violation of 
4  The Open Meeting Law has since been amended to provide that a public body may enter executive session "to 
conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(3) (effective date: July 
1, 2010). 
8 
===PAGE 9===
the Open Meeting Law with respect to Mr. Gallup's appointment as Interim Director, it does 
raise concerns about the manner in which deliberations occur and are memorialized by the 
Board. 
B. Deliberation on the location of school facilities 
The second allegation included in Complaint 2 asserts that the Board deliberated outside 
of a properly posted open session or properly convened executive session regarding School 
facilities. 
Complaint 2 states that at, as of the Board's January 13, 2010, the Board was pursuing 
Brown's Mall as the location for the School. The complainant states that sometime after the 
January 13, 2010 meeting, "Brown's Mall ha[d] been dropped from consideration and the board 
[was] actively pursuing other facility options," and suggests that, because there had been no 
public Board meeting since January 13, 2010, the Board had been making decisions outside of 
public view. The minutes of the March 3, 2010 Board meeting, held two weeks after receipt of 
the complainant's letter, reflect that the Board considered and approved a lease of 2 Blackburn 
Drive in Gloucester. There were no Board meetings between January 13, 2010 and March 3, 
2010, yet when the lease was considered on March 3, 2010 there was no discussion with the 
Board as to why the Brown's Mall location was no longer a viable option, even though they had 
approved a lease for Brown's Mall at their January 9, 2010 meeting. While the minutes reflect a 
discussion about why the Board decided the Blackburn location was a good option, the minutes 
do not reference the change in location. Instead, the minutes read as if the Board had been aware 
of the Blackburn location for some time. Furthermore, the minutes state that a lease had already 
been signed by the landlord of the property. 
While a violation may be inferred based upon the lack of discussion by the Board on the 
topic of the school's location, there is not enough evidence to find with certainty that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law. Either the Board discussed the School's facilities in an open 
session and failed to properly record this discussion in meeting minutes; or the Board discussed 
the School's facilities outside of an open meeting or a properly convened executive session, in 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. Either way, the Board's processes suggest that more careful 
compliance with both the spirit and the letter of the Open Meeting Law is necessary. The Board 
must ensure that significant decisions such as the location of the school are considered in a 
public forum and that the public is kept informed by the Board through regular meetings and 
open discussion. 
C. Deliberation on changes to enrollment plan 
Lastly, Complaint 2 raises questions regarding an enrollment plan change and a decision 
by the Board to accept applications for grade 4-7 students. Board counsel, in his October 6, 2010 
letter, states that: 
It is true that the GCACS Board voted at the January 9, 2010 meeting to adopt a revised 
enrollment plan, which would have changed the school to begin with grades K-2. 
However, this proposed change could not be made by GCACS alone; it had to be 
approved by the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education or the School 
9 
===PAGE 10===
Committee of the Gloucester Public Schools. The approval was not forthcoming and the 
proposed change was therefore not implemented. Accordingly, the original approved plan 
for grades 4-7 has remained in place since November 2008. 
The March 3, 2010 Board meeting minutes reflect a report by the Board that the 
Department of Elementary and Secondary Education or the School Committee of the Gloucester 
Public Schools did not approve of the revised enrollment plan. The Board re-approved the 
original enrollment plan. Regarding the decision to field applications for grades 4-7, the Board 
counsel's October 6 letter states that, "[i]t was the plan for grades 4-7 that was approved by the 
Board of Elementary and Secondary Education. As such, there was no further decision that 
needed to be made by the GCACS Board regarding applications for grades 4-7." We are 
satisfied that these responses address the concerns raised by the complainant. 
Complaint 3. 
The third complaint was filed with the Board by Kathleen Clancy on September 14, 2010, 
and filed with our office on October 6, 2010. The complaint alleges that the Board 
inappropriately held an emergency meeting on September 13, 2010 to discuss a delay in the 
school's start date and a temporary change in the physical location of the school. The complaint 
asserts that the Board's leadership was aware more than 48 hours prior to the meeting that the 
Board would need to convene to address these issues, thereby negating the emergency nature of 
the meeting. We note that at the time of the alleged violation and the filing of the complaint, the 
revisions to the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§18-25, were in effect. Therefore, we review 
this complaint in accordance with that law. 
According to interviews with members of the Board, the School's Executive Director, 
Tony Blackman, became aware that the school would not be ready to open on Monday, 
September 13, 2010 following a meeting with the City Building Inspector on Friday, September 
10, 2010. A discussion about the delay occurred during a previously scheduled pot-luck dinner 
held by the Board for the parents of students on the afternoon of September 10th. During that 
same event, the potential for an emergency meeting was also discussed with the parents. 
According to Board counsel's response, Mr. Blackman communicated with the Board's counsel 
regarding these issues on Friday September 10, 2010. On Saturday, September 11, 2010, Mr. 
Blackman communicated with Board Chair Amy Bailin, during which time he asked her to hold 
an emergency meeting to address the situation. The Chair agreed, and Mr. Blackman emailed a 
meeting notice to the Secretary of State's Office on Sunday September 12. Although the notice 
was emailed to the Secretary of State, it is not clear when the notice was posted to the School's 
website, as required under the Open Meeting Law. The emergency meeting was held on Monday 
September 13, 2010 at 11:00 a.m. At the meeting, the Board approved moving the School 
temporarily to the Rockport location and moving the start date. 
The Open Meeting Law states that "[e]xcept in an emergency, in addition to any notice 
otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours 
prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. In an emergency, a 
public body shall post notice as soon as reasonably possible prior to such meeting." G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). The Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General's regulations define "emergency" as 
"a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding immediate 
10 
===PAGE 11===
action." G.L. c. 30A, §18; 940 CMR 20.02. The regulations also state that for a state public 
body, "notice shall be filed with the attorney general and a duplicate copy of said notice shall be 
filed with the regulations division of the state secretary's office by posting on a website in 
accordance with procedures established for this purpose." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c). The regulations 
further specify that, "[n]otice shall be posted on a website in accordance with procedures 
established by the Attorney General in consultation with the Information Technology Division of 
the Executive Office for Administration and Finance for the purpose of providing the public with 
effective notice." 940 CMR 29.03(6). 
The Board asserts that the sudden realization that the school would not be able to open in 
its planned location occurred upon Mr. Blackman being informed of the modular classrooms' 
failure to pass inspection by the Building Inspector on Friday, September 10th. According to the 
Board, this unanticipated set of circumstances triggered the necessity to hold an emergency 
meeting to discuss the Board's options with regard to opening the school. The Board argues that 
the unexpected nature of the delay warranted the Board's decision to forego the requirement to 
post notice in accordance with the Open Meeting Law. Our office does not credit this argument. 
The burden of justifying the need for an emergency meeting falls on the Board. We 
acknowledge that the Board was dealt a difficult set of circumstances when it was notified by the 
Building Inspector on September 10th  that the modular classrooms would not open. Had this 
notification been the first indication that the Board would need to act quickly to make alternative 
arrangements for the opening of school, the emergency nature of the meeting on September 13th  
may have been justified. However, information widely available in the public domain suggests 
that, rather than being a sudden and unanticipated event, the likelihood that the school would 
open at an alternative site was apparent in the days leading up to September 10th. 
For instance, a news report published on September 9th  states "[GCACS Executive 
Director] Blackman confirmed that, if the modulars are not ready, Gloucester Community Arts 
has alternative classroom sites that it has scouted, but declined to say where they are." Patrick 
Anderson, Charter Still Under Clouds, GLOUCESTER DAILY TIMES, September 9, 2010; see also 
Patrick Anderson, GLOUCESTER DAILY TEVIES, Chart& Start Now Wednesday in Rockport, 
September 10, 2010 ("Blackman, who was staking out alternative classroom sites on Thursday, 
said that with summer gone, the charter school would have Windhover's mini-campus all to 
itself."). This suggests that Mr. Blackman and, presumably, the Board, anticipated that a need to 
move the location of the school may arise before its slated opening on September 13th. If the 
event precipitating the need for a meeting was anticipated, it may not be considered an 
emergency as that term is defined in the statute and regulations. 
Moreover, even if we were to credit an assertion that the Board could not anticipate the 
need for a meeting until there was a final determination by the Building Inspector on the morning 
of Friday, September 10th, the Board was obligated to provide public notice as soon as 
"reasonably possible," that is, as soon as it knew it intended to meet, in accordance with the 
Open Meeting Law. Here, the Board argues that IVIr. Blackman became aware of the emergency 
on Friday morning. The topic of the emergency meeting—alternative school locations—was 
widely discussed during a public event on Friday afternoon. Despite this, the Board Chair did 
not identify the need for an emergency meeting until Saturday and did not post notice until 
Sunday. Because this was such a significant decision, and particularly given the public scrutiny 
===PAGE 12===
the Board was under, the Board should have published a meeting notice on Friday, or Saturday at 
the latest. As overseers of a public charter school, the Board is obligated to provide notice to the 
public, and where there is an emergency situation, must make every effort to provide notice "as 
soon as reasonably possible." We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
inappropriately convening an emergency meeting in contravention of the posting requirements of 
the law on September 13, 2010. 
CONCLUSION 
After reviewing the foregoing complaints, and the documents and interviews generated as 
the result of our office's investigation, we remain very concerned about the diligence with which 
the Board adheres to the Open Meeting Law. In particular, there appear to be gaps between 
meetings in which decisions were made which are not adequately reflected in open or executive 
session minutes. Furthermore, we are concerned that the actions of the Board suggest it is not 
giving sufficient consideration to the notice posting requirements included in the Open Meeting 
Law. 
In resolving these complaints, we order the Board to take the following remedial actions: 
1. Immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18- 
25. 
2. Attend a training on the Open Meeting Law annually during each of the next two 
calendar years (2011 and 2012), and certify to this office that every member of the 
Board has attended that training. The trainings are to be conducted by an attorney or 
organization familiar with the requirements of the Law and approved by this Office. 
These annual trainings are ordered in addition to the training conducted by our office 
on November 15, 2010, and will be in addition to any future remedial actions ordered 
by this office as a result of violations not addressed in this decision. 
3. Submit a copy to the Division of Open Government of any and all meeting notices 
•required by the Open Meeting Law and posted by the full Board or its subcommittees 
for the next two calendar years (2011 and 2012) commencing immediately following 
the issuance of this determination, and concluding on December 31, 2012. These may 
be submitted to the Division via email to openmeetingstate.rna.us .  
4. Review all unreleased executive session minutes to determine whether the purpose 
for having entered executive session in each circumstance still exists, and release 
executive session minutes where doing so would no longer frustrate the purpose for 
having entered into the executive session. This review should occur within 30 days of 
receipt of this determination. 
Throughout the minutes we reviewed, there are references to various subcommittees of 
the Board of Trustees. We caution the Board to be aware that any meetings of a subcommittee 
of the Board of Trustees must also comply with the Open Meeting Law, including posting 
meeting notices, holding open meetings, and taking and retaining minutes. 
12 
===PAGE 13===
Each Board member shall receive a copy of this determination and order. We further 
request that each Board member submit written acknowledgment of receipt and agreement to 
abide by the terms of this order. 
We appreciate the cooperation of the Board during this investigation, and consider the 
three complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not 
address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or pending with the Board. 
Please contact me if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Guca 
Britte McBride 
Director 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Jane S. Cunningham 
Beth T. Morris 
Kathleen Clancy 
Colin Zick, Counsel, GCACS 
13 