===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
October 16, 2019 
OML 2019-129
Thomas Robinson
Chair, Hubbardston Planning Board
Hubbardston, MA 01452
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Mr. Robinson:
This office received a complaint from Raeanne Siegel on April 1, 2019, alleging that the 
Hubbardston Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18- 
25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on January 22. You responded to the 
complaint, on behalf of the Board, by a letter dated February 11. The complaint alleges that the 
Chair failed to announce at the beginning of the meeting that it was being recorded.
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed the initial complaint, the response by the Board, and the complaint filed with our 
office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notice and video of the Board’s January 
2, meeting.2
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board posted a meeting notice on December 27, 2018, 
for a meeting to take place on January 2. Prominently placed and bolded on the notice is the 
statement that “Planning Board meetings are broadcast live and digitally recorded.”
The January 2 meeting was held as planned. On the wall of the room in which the 
meeting was held a sign under the clock reads, “PLEASE BE ADVISED. Many Meetings are 
Broadcast Live and Digitally Recorded.” The video of the meeting shows that the Chair waited 
for the recording to begin before calling the Board meeting to order. Once the recording was 
verbally noted to be working by multiple members of the Board, the Chair called the meeting to
1 All dates referenced are 2019.
2 The video recording of the Board’s January 2 meeting is available at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4 FqD- 
MtONI&list=PLvla3zTbdvUWBVAvzOPsL9ocivrvhLslL &index=17&t=186s

===PAGE 2===
order. Approximately 14 minutes into the meeting, the sole member of the public was called 
forward to speak regarding a topic on the notice. At that time, the Chair realized he had not 
made an announcement informing the public that the meeting was being the recorded. Before 
the member of the public spoke, the Chair made such announcement, stating “Oh, I forgot to say: 
This meeting is broadcast live and digitally recorded.”
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law requires that “[a]fter notifying the chair of the public body, any 
person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a public body, or 
may transmit the meeting through any medium, subject to reasonable requirements of the chair 
as to the number, placement and operation of equipment used so as not to interfere with the 
conduct of the meeting. At the beginning of the meeting, the chair shall inform other attendees 
of any recordings.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). The requirement that the chair inform attendees of any 
recording includes any recording made by members of the public body itself, including those 
made for public broadcasting or administrative purposes, such as assisting in the drafting of 
meeting minutes. See OML 2016-155; OML 2013-136; OML 2012-24.3
The complaint alleges that the Chair failed to announce, at the beginning of the January 2 
meeting, that it was being recorded. While we have previously held that a sign may satisfy the 
requirement of notification of a recording and relieve the chair from making a verbal 
announcement at the start of the meeting, the sign on the wall here does not satisfy that 
requirement as it was neither placed on the table where the Board was sitting nor did it indicate 
that the January 2 meeting was indeed being recorded. See OML 2016-155. The fact that the 
meeting notice alerted the public that the meeting was being recorded also does not satisfy this 
technical requirement.
Still, we recognize that the Chair, upon realizing his oversight, did make an 
announcement approximately 14 minutes into the meeting that the meeting was being recorded. 
We commend the Chair for attempting to remedy the error. Nonetheless, the Law requires that 
the Chair notify attendees of recordings “[a]t the beginning of the meeting,” and therefore we are 
constrained to find a violation of the Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f); see OML 2019-80. We note, 
however, that given the circumstances this failure constituted a mere technical violation of the 
Open Meeting Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons set forth above, we find the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order the Board’s immediate and future compliance, and caution that future similar violations 
could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. We now consider the complaint 
addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other 
complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact the 
Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.
3 All previous detenninations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law
2

===PAGE 3===
Sincerely,
Kathryn Droumbakis 
Special Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
Assisted by: Stephen Delcuze, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government
cc: Raeanne Siegel
Hubbardston Planning Board
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3
