===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
September 11, 2014 
OML 2014-110 
Donna MacNicol, Esq. 
MacNicol & Tombs, LLP 
393 Main Street 
P.O. Box 985 
Greenfield, MA 01301 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney MacNicol: 
This office received two complaints alleging that the Ashfield Select Board (the "Board") 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The first complaint, from Paullette 
Leukhardt, is dated June 9 and the second, from Suzanne Corbett, is dated June 6. Both 
complaints allege that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law during its February 26 meeting 
by discussing a topic that was reasonably anticipated by the Chair more than 48 hours before the 
meeting but was not included in the meeting notice. Ms. Leukhardt originally filed her 
complaint with the Board on March 24 and Ms. Corbett filed her complaint with the Board on 
March 25. The Board responded to both complaints by letters dated May 19, following an 
extension granted by our office. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed an email that Lynn Taylor, the Assistant Town Clerk, 
sent to the Board on December 4, 2013; the notice for, and minutes of, the Board's February 26 
meeting; and a video recording of the Board's February 26 meeting. Additionally, we reviewed 
an email Ms. Leukhardt sent to Board Chair Tom Carter on February 27 and interviewed Chair 
Carter by telephone on August 22. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On December 4, 2013, Assistant Town Clerk Taylor sent an 
email to a number of recipients, including the three Board members. The email stated that the 
Board needed to submit a draft of the Board's report for inclusion in the 2013 Annual Town 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
Report no later than January 31. The Board did not provide the report to the Town Clerk by that 
deadline. 
On February 24 at 6:15 PM, the Board posted notice for its February 26, 7:00 PM 
meeting. The notice did not include a topic relating to the Annual Town Report. On the 
morning of February 26, Chair Carter received a telephone call from the Assistant Town Clerk 
informing him that the Board's Annual Report needed to be submitted by February 28. Chair 
Carter immediately set to work drafting the report for the Board to discuss and approve at that 
evening's meeting. 
The Board held its meeting on February 26. During the portion of the meeting for topics 
not reasonably anticipated by the Chair, Chair Carter distributed his draft of the Board's report. 
The Board discussed and revised the report. Following the discussion. Vice Chair Ron Coler 
moved to accept the Select Board report for the 2013 Annual Town Report as submitted and 
amended at that meeting. The Board unanimously voted to accept the report. 
The day after the meeting. Board member Leukhardt sent an email to Chair Carter asking 
him to put the Board's report on the agenda for the Board's March 3 meeting. Ms. Leukhardt 
was concerned that the Board had violated the Open Meeting Law by voting on an item during 
the February 26 meeting that was not included in the meeting's notice. The Chair declined to 
include the topic in the notice for the March 3 meeting and the Board did not discuss the report at 
that meeting. 
During the Board's March 17 meeting, Ms. Leukhardt expressed her concern that the 
Board may have violated the Open Meeting Law during its February 26 meeting when it voted to 
approve the amended Select Board report. Ms. Leukhardt proposed that the Board correct its 
mistake by placing the report on the agenda for the next meeting. In response to Ms. Leukhardt, 
Chair Carter acknowledged that he had received Ms. Leukhardt's February 27 email, but felt that 
it would be inconvenient to rescind the actions already taken by the Board given that the Annual 
Town Report had already been sent to the Sheriffs office for printing. Regardless, Ms. 
Leukhardt explained that she would like to revise the report further and moved to add the report 
to the next meeting's agenda. Ms. Leukhardt stated that although she had voted for it on 
February 26, she no longer supported the report. There was no second to that motion, thus the 
Board did not discuss the matter further. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post a notice 48 hours in advance of 
each meeting and include, a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). When a topic arises that was not listed in a 
meeting notice and which the chair did not reasonably anticipate 48 hours before the meeting, the 
Board may address the topic. See OML 2013-14; OML 2012-19.2 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. See also the section of our office's website that includes Frequently Asked 
Questions pertaining to the Open Meeting Law: 
2 
===PAGE 3===
While the Board had been notified via email of a January 31 deadline for submitting the 
report, the Chair didn't learn of the extended deadline until February 26. Thus, the Chair was not 
aware that the Select Board's report was due on February 28 when posting notice for the Board's 
February 26 meeting, and therefore did not anticipate discussing a draft of that report at the time 
of posting. Because the Chair did not reasonably anticipate discussing the draft report 48 hours 
in advance of the Board's February 26 meeting, the Board did not violate the law by discussing it 
at the meeting that evening, even though it was not included as a topic for discussion in the 
meeting notice. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Therefore, we find that the Board did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Ashfield Board of Selectmen 
Paullette Leukhardt 
Suzanne Corbett 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
Q: May a public body consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice? 
A: Yes, if it is a topic that the chair did not reasonably anticipate 48 hours before the meeting. If a meeting topic is 
proposed after the meeting notice is posted, the public body is encouraged to update its posting to provide the public 
with as much notice as possible of what subjects will be discussed during a meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 