===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 24, 2026 
 
       OML 2025 – 68 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
William Cole 
Chair  
Hardwick Planning Board 
planningboard@hardwick-ma.gov  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Cole: 
 
This office received a complaint from Jeffery Smith on August 11, 2025,
1 alleging that 
the Hardwick Planning Board (the “Planning Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Planning Board on or about June 
20, and you responded on behalf of the Planning Board by email on July 9. The complaint 
alleges that the Planning Board violated the Open Meeting Law when a quorum of the Planning 
Board deliberated during a June 9 meeting of the Hardwick Select Board (the “Select Board”) 
without having posted notice. The complaint also alleges that two members of the Planning 
Board may have further deliberated during the June 9 meeting. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Planning Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when a quorum deliberated while attending the Select Board’s June 9 meeting. We do not find 
that the Board otherwise improperly deliberated on June 9. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, 
and a video recording of the Select Board’s June 9 meeting.
2 
 
 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the Select Board’s June 9 meeting was accessed at 
https://www.youtube.com/live/tQhEY9EDwGI?si=zZcDHFt4KPSgbpcU. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On or about April 3, a member of the Select Board, 
William Tinker, wrote a letter to the Select Board regarding zoning bylaw articles proposed for 
an upcoming Special Town Meeting. Mr. Tinker’s letter raised concerns about whether the 
Planning Board followed the required procedures with respect to proposed amendments to the 
zoning bylaws as well as concerns about conflicts of interest between Planning Board members 
and the Eagle Hill School located in Hardwick, an entity that allegedly would be impacted by the 
zoning bylaw changes. In response to Mr. Tinker’s letter, the Planning Board wrote its own letter 
to the Select Board.  
 
The Select Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on June 9 at 6:30 p.m. Among 
other topics, the notice included the topic “Discussion on William Tinker’s correspondence and 
response from Planning Board.” The Planning Board is a five-member body; therefore, three 
members constitute a quorum. Three Planning Board members—William Cole, Harry 
Comerford, and Erik Fleming—attended the Select Board’s June 9 meeting.  
 
During the June 9 meeting, when the Board reached the topic of Mr. Tinker’s 
correspondence and the Planning Board’s response, Mr. Tinker recused himself and left the 
meeting. Thereafter, the Select Board chair, Eric Vollheim, after making a few opening remarks, 
asked if anyone in the audience wanted to speak on the topic. Planning Board member William 
Cole volunteered to speak first and expressed his surprise at seeing this topic on the notice for 
the meeting that evening but said that he was happy to explain from “our perspective, what 
happened.” 
 
Thereafter, an approximately 35-minute discussion ensued. The conversation was 
relatively free flowing with both members of the Planning Board and other members of the 
audience, including the complainant, engaging in the discussion. During the discussion, Mr. 
Tinker’s letter and the Planning Board’s letter in response were read aloud. Mr. Cole spoke 
several times over the course of the discussion, explaining that he saw Mr. Tinker’s letter as a 
challenge to the Planning Board’s integrity and independence. Mr. Cole discussed relevant 
events that occurred at earlier meetings of the Planning Board. He also described potential 
conflicts of interest with the Eagle Hill School, including one of his own, and actions he had 
taken in response to such. Additionally, he explained his understanding of when Planning Board 
members must disclose a conflict of interest, described how the Planning Board has handled 
conflicts of interest in the past, and described how it would handle any potential conflicts of 
interest in the future. 
 
Planning Board member Harry Comerford also spoke at various points, explaining that 
there was no current conflict of interest as there was nothing before the Board related to the 
Eagle Hill School. He also asserted that he had no conflict with the school. Mr. Comerford 
further stated that Mr. Tinker had provided no evidence supporting the claims raised in his letter 
and questioned why Mr. Tinker had requested Town legal counsel’s involvement in these 
matters. Planning Board member Erik Fleming spoke briefly simply to state that he would not 
speak on the matter for fear that if he mentioned the Eagle Hill School, the complainant would 
file an Open Meeting Law complaint.   
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
  
 The video recording of the June 9 meeting shows that a t one point prior to the discussion 
of Mr. Tinker’s letter and the Planning Board’s response, Mr. Fleming turned to Mr. Comerford 
and a few seconds later they both got up from their seats and walked out of view of the camera.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body’s deliberations occur during a 
properly noticed meeting that is open to the public, unless one of ten narrow exceptions apply. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18; 20(a); 21. The Law defines “deliberation” as any “oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. For purposes of 
the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id. A 
“meeting” is a “deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s 
jurisdiction.” Id. However, the Open Meeting Law specifies that a “meeting” does not include 
“attendance by a quorum of a public body at a meeting of another public body that has complied 
with the notice requirements of the open meeting law, so long as the visiting members 
communicate only by open participation in the meeting on those matters under discussion by the 
host body and do not deliberate.” Id. A one-way communication from one public body member 
to a quorum on matters within the body’s jurisdiction is a deliberation, even if no other public 
body member responds. See OML 2020-136; OML 2016-104; OML 2015-33; OML 2012-73.
3 
Moreover, the Open Meeting Law does not carve out an exception to the definition of 
“deliberation” for discussions that do not result in a decision or vote.  
 
 When determining whether a quorum of a public body has deliberated while attending the 
meeting of another public body, we look for indicia of deliberation such as whether the visiting 
body members were seated with the general public and whether they participated by open 
participation as other members of the public and not in a special capacity as public body 
members. See OML 2021-108; OML 2016-117; OML 2012-6. We have found that discussion of 
a public body’s operation is a matter within the body’s jurisdiction and that such discussions 
must therefore take place during an open meeting that has been properly noticed. See OML 
2022-161 (email sent to quorum of public body constituted improper deliberation where it 
concerned the body’s operations, including how to handle conflicts of interest); OML 2022-129 
(emails sent to quorum of public body constituted improper deliberation where they expressed 
chair’s opinions on body’s operation, including meeting and voting procedures); OML 2021-130 
(memoranda circulated to quorum of public body constituted improper deliberation where it 
concerned chair’s proposed communication policy). 
 
I. We find that the Planning Board violated the Open Meeting Law when a quorum 
deliberated during the June 9 meeting of the Select Board without first posting notice.  
  
The complaint alleges that the Planning Board violated the Open Meeting Law when a 
quorum attended the Select Board’s June 9 meeting and deliberated without having first posted 
notice of a meeting. The Planning Board contends that the presence of a quorum of the Planning 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Board at the Select Board’s June 9 meeting falls within the exception to the definition of 
“meeting” for the attendance of a quorum at the meeting of another public body. In support of 
this assertion, the Planning Board states that its members attended the June 9 meeting 
individually and that they communicated openly on a matter before the Select Board.  
 
We find that the Planning Board deliberated while attending the Select Board’s June 9 
meeting, in violation of the Open Meeting Law. Although the Planning Board members sat in the 
audience and participated in an open discussion on a matter before the Select Board, they spoke 
as members of and on behalf of the Planning Board, not as members of the public. See OML 
2020–93; OML 2019-103. Furthermore, their comments were not limited to providing 
information on matters the Planning Board had already publicly discussed but rather included 
statements regarding their views on the Planning Board’s operations, including whether conflicts 
of interest exist and how to handle such conflicts in the future.  
 
Next, we must determine if the violation was intentional, as the complainant urges. We 
find that it was not. An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body or a member 
thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. An intentional 
violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the law’s 
requirements or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting 
Law. Id. In support of the assertion that the violation was intentional, the complainant notes that 
he has filed multiple Open Meeting Law complaints against the Planning Board and alleges that 
a Planning Board member “taunt[ed] [the complainant] to file a complaint . . ., indicating 
awareness of OML requirements.” These assertions are insufficient to support a finding of an 
intentional violation. Furthermore, in the past five years our office has not warned the Planning 
Board about any violations like the one found here, nor do we find any other evidence that would 
support the finding of an intentional violation.  
 
II. We do not find that the Planning Board otherwise improperly deliberated on June 9. 
 
Finally, the complaint alleges that at one point in the meeting Mr. Fleming and Mr. 
Comerford spoke to each other and then left to go speak further in the hallway. The complaint 
alleges that “[t]his 58-second hallway talk, if involving Planning Board business, may constitute 
a serial or chain deliberation among the quorum, further violating G.L. c. 30A, § 18, as it 
occurred outside a public meeting.” First, as explained above, a quorum of the Planning Board is 
three members; therefore, a communication wholly between Mr. Fleming and Mr. Comerford 
would not constitute deliberation under the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Second, 
with respect to deliberation via serial communication, we have consistently explained mere 
speculation or conjecture regarding deliberation outside of a posted meeting, without factual 
support, is insufficient to support a complaint’s allegations. See, e.g., OML 2024-108; OML 
2024-91; OML 2024-14; OML 2023-242; OML 2014-114; OML 2012-59. Where the 
complainant has offered no evidence beyond mere speculation and conjecture, we do not find a 
violation with respect to this allegation. 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Planning Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law when a quorum deliberated during the Select Board’s June 9 meeting without having first 
posted notice of a meeting. We find that the Planning Board did not otherwise violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We order the Planning Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law and caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of an intent 
to violate the Law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Planning 
Board or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Hardwick Planning Board (via email:  )  
 Hardwick Town Clerk (via email: clerk@hardwick-ma.gov) 
Jeffery Smith (via email: jeffery7@gmail.com) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
