===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
December 3, 2018 
OML 2018-152
Jeanne Downs, Chair 
Wayland School Committee 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Ms. Downs:
This office received two complaints from George Harris on June 27 and July 2 alleging 
that the Wayland School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaints were originally filed with the Committee on May 8 and May 
14; and Committee member Ellen Grieco responded to both complaints, on behalf of the 
Committee, by letter dated May 25.2 The first complaint alleges that the Committee failed to 
timely approve minutes from its March 19 meeting, and that the March 19 and March 26 meeting 
minutes are insufficiently detailed. The second complaint alleges that the Committee failed to 
timely approve minutes from its April 2 meeting.
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to approve meeting minutes in a timely manner. We find that the Committee did not 
otherwise violate the law because the complained-of minutes are sufficiently detailed. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Committee’s response to 
the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review. In addition, 
we reviewed the notices of, and open session minutes from, Committee meetings held on March 
19, March 26, April 2, April 3, April 5, April 23, and May 21; as well as video recordings of the 
March 19 and March 26 meetings.3 Finally, we spoke with the complainant by telephone on 
August 10.
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 Ms. Grieco was chair of the Committee at the time the complaints and the response were filed; she is now vice 
chair of the Committee.
3 The video recordings are available at https://www.waycam.tv/govemment-on-demand.

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Committee duly posted notice for, and then held a 
meeting on, March 19 at 7:00 P.M. During this meeting, the Committee discussed and received 
public comment on changes to the grade point average system at the high school; discussed a 
synthetic turf field at the high school stadium and the wastewater treatment plant project; 
reviewed town meeting warrant articles and the quarterly financial report; received a report from 
a Committee member pertaining to the finance committee and a report from the Superintendent; 
discussed the timeline for evaluating the Superintendent; reviewed an article for publication in 
the local newspaper; approved various payroll warrants and minutes from its February 13 and 
February 26 meetings; and met in executive session.
The Committee posted notice for, and held a meeting on, March 26 at 7:00 P.M. During 
this meeting, the Committee again discussed and received public comment on changes to the 
grade point average system at the high school; reviewed town meeting warrant articles and the 
draft budget; discussed fees for after school transportation and the after school Kindergarten 
extended program; received updates regarding school bus parking and a public records request 
received by the Committee; received a report from the Superintendent regarding the Fundations 
reading program and the search process for an Assistant Superintendent; approved various 
payroll warrants; and met in executive session.
The Committee also duly posted notices for, and then held meetings on April 2, April 3, 
April 5, April 23, May 7, and May 21. Town Meeting began on April 2 and concluded on April 
5. During its meetings on April 2, April 3, and April 5, the Committee convened thirty minutes 
to one hour prior to the start of Town Meeting, which began at 7:00 P.M. During each of these 
meetings, the Committee generally discussed two warrant articles and then recessed to Town 
Meeting ten to fifteen minutes prior to its start.
The Committee duly posted notice for, and then held a meeting on, April 23 at 7:00 P.M. 
During this meeting, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes from its March 19 and 
March 26 meetings.
The Committee duly posted notice for, and then held a meeting on, May 21. During this 
meeting, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes from its March 14, April 2, and May 
7 meetings. All the minutes have been posted to the Town website.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes must be reviewed 
and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). “Timely manner” means “within the 
next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can
2
f t n r u iB p n r ir in n iim iw iiiiiL

===PAGE 3===
show good cause for further delay.” See 940 CMR 29.11; OML 2018-48.4 Whenever possible, 
we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2014-15; 
OML 2012-91.
The first and second complaints allege that the minutes from Committee meetings held 
on March 19 and April 2 were not approved in a timely manner where they were approved more 
than 30 days after the meetings. Here, the Committee met four times after the March 19 meeting 
without approving the minutes and four times after the April 2 meeting without approving the 
minutes. Where the Committee met at least three times within 30 days, following both its March 
19 and April 2 meetings, it had 30 days by which to approve the minutes in a timely manner as 
30 days was the later of the two time periods. Yet, the Committee reviewed and approved the 
March 19 minutes at its April 23 meeting, 35 days later; and reviewed and approved the April 2 
minutes at its May 21 meeting, 49 days later. The Committee suggests that it had good cause for 
delay because it met more frequently than usual due to Town Meeting and its administrative 
assistant was not available to take minutes. We understand the demands on a public body with 
limited staff; however, the Committee is still obligated to timely approve minutes. See OML 
2017-115; OML 2018-111. The responsibility for complying with the Open Meeting Law rests 
with public bodies and members of such bodies, not with individual public employees, such as 
administrative staff. See OML 2018-105. We conclude that the Committee did not provide 
good cause for the delay and therefore it violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to approve 
the minutes in a timely manner. See OML 2018-133.
The first complaint also alleges that the Committee’s March 19 and March 26 meeting 
minutes failed to include an accurate summary of the discussions that occurred. Specifically, the 
complaint suggests that the summary of the Finance Subcommittee update during the March 19 
meeting and the summary of the Superintendent’s update with respect to the search process for 
an Assistant Superintendent during the March 26 meeting were not sufficient. When reviewing 
minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the 
accuracy requirement. See OML 2013-64. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes 
should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 
2012-106. While the approved minutes from the March 19 meeting do not specifically include 
reference to each audit that the Finance Subcommittee reviewed, they otherwise offer a concise 
summary of the subcommittee’s ongoing projects. Likewise, we find that the approved minutes 
from the March 26 meeting also offer a concise summary, even though they do not specifically 
reference the date by which the Superintendent would submit a named candidate to the 
Committee. See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55 (while minutes must include a summary of the 
discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include 
every remark or opinion presented). Accordingly, we find that the Committee’s minutes 
complied with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law.
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to approve its 
March 19 and March 29 minutes in a timely manner. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the law’s requirements and we caution that similar future violations could be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
r i /
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: George H. Harris, Esq.
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
