===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL ONE ASHBURTON PLACE BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108  (617) 727-2200  (617) 727-4765 TTY  www.mass.gov/ago   
 May 7, 2020         OML 2020 – 57  VIA EMAIL  Daniel Pallotta  P3 Project Planning Professionals 150 Longwater Drive, Suite 102 Norwell, MA 02061-1618 dpallotta@p-threeinc.com     RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  Dear Mr. Pallotta: This office received a complaint from Marilyn Kelsey on December 27, 2019, alleging that the Shelburne Senior Center Expansion Site Subcommittee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on October 15, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated October 25.1 In her complaint, Ms. Kelsey alleges that the Committee improperly met in executive session on September 25, created insufficiently detailed executive session minutes, and improperly withheld from the public a document used during the meeting.2  Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed the Committee’s September 25 executive session, October 4 open session, and October 25 open session meeting minutes.                                                               1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2019. 2 The complaint also alleges that the Board was in violation of the Rule of Necessity. We note that, even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Accordingly, we decline to review it. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 
===PAGE 2===
2  
FACTS We find the facts as follows. The Committee was created to, among other things, review possible locations for the expansion of the Shelburne Senior Center. The Senior Center, located in the Masonic Building in Shelburne Falls, serves residents of Shelburne, Buckland and Ashfield. In May 2019, the Committee received a proposal from the Mount Lodge of Masons, offering to sell its Masonic Building so that the Committee could enlarge the Senior Center.  The Committee met in executive session on September 25 “pursuant to M.G.L. c. 30A, section 21, reason 6: To consider the purchase exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body.” The Committee convened the meeting in open session and immediately voted to enter executive session under Purpose 6 to consider the Mason’s property proposal. At the beginning of the executive session, the Committee privately discussed its response to the Mason’s proposal, a reasonable price for the property and how to conduct the latter portion of the executive session in which the Masons would join the committee. The Masons were then invited into the executive session to discuss the details of the possible agreement. The Committee’s discussion with the Masons lasted approximately one hour.  On October 4, upon being informed by Town Counsel that the September 25 executive session was improper, the Committee voted to approve and release to the public the minutes from that executive session. On October 15, Ms. Kelsey filed her Open Meeting Law complaint.  The Committee reviewed the complaint at an October 25 meeting. In response to the complaint, the Committee acknowledged that the Committee should not have invited the Masons to join the September 25 executive session, but denied that the violation was intentional. In order to remedy the violation, the Committee voted to amend the previously-released executive session meeting minutes to reflect the location of the meeting, any members absent and any exhibits or documents used at the meeting. The Committee also voted to release the Mason’s offer letter and circulated copies of the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law Guide to all members. DISCUSSION  The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Among the ten enumerated purposes for executive session is “Purpose 6,” which permits a public body “[t]o consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(6). Purpose 6 is intended to preserve confidentiality in negotiating the value of the property to be purchased, exchanged or leased to avoid putting the public body at a disadvantage in its negotiations for the property. See District Atty. for the Plymouth Dist. v. Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 631 (1985). When representatives of the party with whom the public body will be negotiating are present, Purpose 6 is defeated because there is no need to enter executive session to establish a 
===PAGE 3===
3  
confidential negotiating position. See Allen v. Board of Selectmen, 58 Mass. App. Ct. 715, 720 (2002); OML 2012-114.  We find that the portion of the Committee’s September 25 executive session that included discussions with the Masons was improper. Here, the Committee concedes that it invited the party with whom it was negotiating, the Masons, into a portion of its September 25 executive session. Once the Masons joined the executive session, the executive session purpose was defeated. See OML 2020-2. Therefore, we find that the portion of the executive session which the Masons attended was improper, and the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by holding a discussion in executive session that lacked a proper statutory purpose.   Next, we find the Committee’s September 25 executive session minutes were insufficiently detailed. The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2017-104; OML 2013-64.3 By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2019-145; OML 2012-106. Although a transcript of the discussions is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented, minutes must include a substantive summary of the discussion on each topic. See OML 2018-8; OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55.  Here, the Committee’s meeting minutes for its September 25 executive session fall far short of the accuracy requirement of the Open Meeting Law. The minutes contain a general list of topics that were discussed, many without any actual summary of the discussion. For example, the minutes state “[d]iscussion about relocation during potential renovation,” “[d]iscussion about what we can speak about publicly[,]” and “[d]iscussion about the time line.” The Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes include more than a statement that a public body held a discussion about a specified topic; the Law requires that the minutes summarize the discussion that was held. See OML 2019-167; OML 2018-8. We therefore find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to draft and approve sufficiently detailed minutes for its September 25 executive session.  We also find that the Committee cannot withhold from the public a document that was used by the Committee during the September 25 executive session. Documents and other exhibits that are “used by the body at an open or executive session shall, along with the minutes, be part of the official record of the session.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(d). Furthermore, all documents and exhibits that are used at an open session meeting “shall be public records in their entirety and not exempt from disclosure pursuant to any of the exemptions” to the Public Records Law, although certain material may be exempt from disclosure to the public as personnel information. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e). A document is “used” at a meeting when it is, at a minimum, physically                                                              3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4  
present, verbally identified, and its contents are discussed by members of the public body during an open session. See OML 2014-146. In such instances, the document must be listed in the minutes and made available as a public record. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2019-57; OML 2012-42.  Here, the Committee received the Mason’s proposal to sell in the form of a “packet” in May. The Committee concedes that the packet was physically present, verbally described and its contents were discussed by members of the Committee during the executive session. Since the portion of the executive session which the Masons attended, and during which the packet was discussed, lacked a proper statutory purpose, the discussion of the packet should have taken place in open session. Therefore, the packet is a public record in its entirety and not exempt from disclosure pursuant to any of the exemptions of the Public Records Law.4   Finally, we must determine whether the Committee’s violations were, as the complainant urges, intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the Law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting Law. Id. Here, although some of the Committee’s actions were improper, we find that the Committee’s actions were the result of a sincere misunderstanding of the Law’s requirements, rather than an intentional violation of the Law. We therefore decline to find the Committee’s violations to be intentional. CONCLUSSION  For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee improperly met in executive session on September 25, created insufficiently detailed executive session minutes and improperly withheld from the public a document used during the improper portion of the executive session. We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Committee that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.   Furthermore, we order the Committee, within 60 days of the receipt of this determination, to amend the minutes of the September 25 executive session to include sufficient detail in accordance with this determination, to the best of its ability, through whatever means are available, including the memories and individual notations of the attendees. Upon approval, we order the Committee to immediately release to the public the portion of the amended minutes summarizing the part of the September 25 executive session during which the Masons were present. In addition, the Masons’ proposal to sell packet must be listed in the minutes as a document used during the meeting and made available as a public record.                                                              4 Although documents used by a public body during an open session must be provided in response to a public records request, there is no requirement in the Open Meeting Law that the public body affirmatively provide copies of those documents to persons in attendance at a meeting. See OML 2016-94; OML 2015-199. If the documents are requested by an attendee during the meeting, the public body’s response is governed by the Public Records Law, which requires only that the public body respond to the request within ten days. See G.L. c. 66, § 10 (a-b); 950 CMR 32.06(2). 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Chase 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Marilyn Kelsey (via mail: ) 
 Shelburne Senior Center Site Committee c/o Chair Michael McCusker (via e- mail: 
)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
