===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
April 7, 2014 
OML 2014-35 
Brian W. Riley, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch St. 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
This office received a complaint from Gary Allard on February 24, 2014 alleging that the 
Sturbridge Board of Health (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
This complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about December 13, 2013. You 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated January 9, 2014.1 Lhe complaint alleges that 
that the Board failed to follow the order and timing of the items listed in its agenda. The 
complainant further challenges the actions of Chairman Cocalis in denying him an opportunity to 
respond to complaints against his property. 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to follow the 
order and timing of the items listed in its agenda. We decline to investigate the remainder of the 
complainant's allegations because, even if proven true, they would not constitute violations of 
the Open Meeting Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the December 13, 2013 
complaint, the Board's response dated January 9, 2014, and the complaint filed with this office 
February 24, 2014. We also spoke by telephone with the complainant in March 2014. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board properly posted notice for a meeting to occur on 
November 18, 2013. The agenda that accompanied this notice indicated that the meeting would 
start at 6 P.M. The agenda also indicated times at which the public could expect the Board to 
begin discussing different topics. The meeting started at the posted time. The complainant, 
relying on the times included in the agenda for the discussion of specific items, attended the 
meeting and discovered upon his arrival that the Board had already considered the items of 
interest to him. The Board does not dispute that some discussion of items occurred either before 
the time indicated on the agenda or out of order. This complaint followed. 
FACTS 
1 For the purpose of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, "a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays .... Notice ... shall contain the date, time and place of such meeting and a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. 
c. 3 OA, § 20(b). A public body may not begin a meeting earlier than the posted start time. OML 
2013-161. The Law does not prohibit a public body from removing, postponing, or declining to 
discuss a topic listed on a meeting notice or agenda. OML 2012-23. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the public body failed to abide by the time indications on 
its posted notice for various items on the agenda. If a public body chooses to indicate times at 
which it anticipates different items of discussion to occur, the body should make reasonable 
efforts to honor such representations in the interest of government transparency and the logical 
expectations of attendees. Failure to do so, however, is not a violation of the Open Meeting 
Law.2 The Law requires only that a meeting start on or after the time indicated on its posted 
notice. Once the meeting begins, the public body controls its own agenda. We find therefore 
that the Board's failure to adhere to the indicated times on the notice for the discussion of 
individual agenda items did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
The remainder of the complainant's allegations concern the statements and actions of the 
Chair during the course of the meeting. These allegations, even if proven true, would not violate 
the Open Meeting Law, thus we decline to review them. 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing agenda items 
before the time indicated on its posted notice. We decline to review the complainant's other 
allegations. 
We now consider this matter closed. This determination does not address any other 
complaints which may be pending before this office or the Board. Please feel free to contact us 
at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Sturbridge Board of Health 
Gary Allard 
2 This determination does not address the requirements of any other statute, including any statutes requiring public 
hearings, that may apply to a public body's meeting other than the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Mark M. Higgins 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 
===PAGE 3===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. BOA, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3 