===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
February 28, 2019 
OML 2019-15
Charlton Board of Selectmen
c/o Robin Leal Craver, Town Administrator
37 Main Street
Charlton, MA 01507
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Ms. Craver:
This office received a complaint from Robert Lemansky on October 5, 2018, alleging 
that the Charlton Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally with the Board on or about August 27, 2018, 
and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by email on September 26, 2018. 
In his complaint, Mr. Lemansky alleges that, during its May 8, 2018 meeting, the Board 
improperly discussed a topic in executive session that had previously been discussed in open 
session.
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
manner alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. 
We also reviewed the notice and executive session minutes of the Board’s May 8, 2018 
meeting. Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on February 11, 2019.1
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The complainant is a member of the Town’s Sewer 
Commission. During its May 8, 2018 meeting, the Board convened in executive session to 
discuss, in part, a letter the Board had received from the Massachusetts State Ethics 
Commission (the “Ethics Commission”) concerning a complaint it had filed with the Ethics 
Commission against the complainant in his capacity as a Sewer Commissioner regarding a 
proposed sewer line. The Board had previously discussed filing such a complaint in open 
session. On a separate, but related, matter, the complainant had filed suit against another
1 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter.

===PAGE 2===
member of the Sewer Commission for statements allegedly made about the complainant. The 
Board agreed to provide a defense to the Commissioner through the Town’s insurance carrier.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). One permissible reason to 
convene in executive session is “to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or 
litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating 
position of the public body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”). 
This purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with respect to litigation that is 
pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely; the mere 
possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3. See Doherty v. School 
Committee of Boston. 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Ferryman v. School Committee of Boston. 
17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-05.2
The complaint alleges that the Board’s May 8, 2018 discussion of an investigation 
conducted by the Ethics Commission was improperly held in executive session because 
litigation was not pending at that time. The Board responds that a lawsuit filed by the 
complainant against another Commissioner remained pending at the time of the meeting. As 
such, the Board determined, because that the lawsuit and the Ethics Commission inquiry were 
similar in nature, discussion of the Ethics Commission’s letter would affect the Town’s 
litigating strategy with respect to the pending lawsuit.3 Indeed, the Ethics Commission 
inquiry concerned the complainant, who had filed a lawsuit against another Commissioner, 
and both matters related to the Sewer Commission’s decision to approve a particular sewer 
line. Because the Board had previously discussed the Ethics Commission complaint in open 
session, however, we conclude that the Board did not demonstrate how its brief discussion 
about the letter in open session might have detrimentally affected its litigating position with 
respect to the separate, pending lawsuit, which was not discussed during this meeting.4 G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a)(3); OML 2017-87; OML 2012-5. Accordingly, we find that it was improper 
for the Board to discuss the Ethics Commission letter in executive session. Because the 
Board has already publicly released this portion of the executive session minutes, we order no 
further relief.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by convening in executive session on May 8, 2018 for an improper purpose. We order the 
Board’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that 
similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
2 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3 The lawsuit was subsequently dismissed on July 18,2018.
4 We note that if the discussion had deviated into a discussion of the lawsuit, the Board could have ended the 
discussion as it was not a topic listed on the meeting notice and was not the purpose of the discussion.
2

===PAGE 3===
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Hanne Rush
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Robert  Lemansky
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
3
