===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 11, 2014 
OML 2014-96 
Susan M. Whalen, Esq. 
Susan M. Whalen, P.C. 
24 Russell Street 
Charlestown, MA 02129 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Whalen: 
This office received two complaints from Attorney Theodore Saulnier (dated April 8, 
2014 and May 28, 2014, respectively) alleging that the Martha's Vineyard Airport Commission 
(the Commission) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The first complaint 
alleges that the Commission failed to list the correct meeting time on the notice for its January 
24, 2014 meeting. The second complaint alleges that the Commission failed to provide proper 
notice to an individual who was the subject of an executive session called under G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a)(1).1 The complaints were originally filed with the Commission on or about January 31, 
2014 and May 2, 2014, and you responded on behalf of the Commission by letters dated 
February 14, 2014 and May 16, 2014, respectively. 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to properly post notice for its January 24, 2014 meeting and by failing to provide 
sufficient detail in the notice for its February 12, 2014 meeting, at which it attempted to remedy 
the earlier violation. We find that the Commission did not violate the Law in the other ways 
alleged. In reaching our decision, we reviewed the January 31, 2014 and May 2, 2014 
complaints; your February 14, 2014 and May 16, 2014 responses on behalf of the Commission; 
and the April 8, 2014 and May 28, 2014 requests for further review filed with our office. 
Additionally, we reviewed the notices for, and minutes of, the Commission's meetings held on 
January 24, 2014; February 12, 2014; and April 4, 2014. 
1 In addition, Attorney Saulnier alleges that the Commission held the meeting over his objection and that the 
Commission's dismissal of his client during its April 4, 2014 meeting was a result of improperly obtained 
information. Even if taken as true, these allegations would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
Therefore, we decline to review these allegations. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. For years, the Commission's official notice posting method 
for meetings has been to post at the Martha's Vineyard Airport, which is open 24 hours a day. 
The Commission also sent copies of its notices to the Dukes County Offices, the County 
Courthouse and the press. 
The Commission convened several meetings in early 2014 to discuss and consider the 
appeal of disciplinary action of an airport employee, Beth Tessmer. On January 21,2 the 
Commission posted notice at the Airport of a meeting to be held on January 24. The 
Commission also faxed copies of the notice to the County Offices and the County Courthouse. 
The notice listed the time of the meeting as 10:30 P.M., rather than 10:30 A.M. Upon learning 
of the error on January 23, one day before the scheduled meeting, the Commission posted an 
amended version of the notice correcting the time. The notice also listed an anticipated 
discussion to be held in executive session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). 
However, during the meeting, the Commission held this discussion entirely in open session at 
Ms. Tessmer's request. 
During the meeting, Ms. Tessmer's counsel, Attorney Saulnier, stated that the meeting 
violated the Open Meeting Law because the revised notice was posted fewer than 48 hours prior 
to the meeting and the discussion topic was listed as an executive session, despite counsels' 
understanding that Ms. Tessmer would prefer that the meeting be held in open session. The 
Commission's counsel, Attorney Whalen, responded that, upon learning of the misstated time on 
the notice, the Commission promptly posted a revised notice. Attorney Whalen also noted that 
the Commission anticipated the discussion would be held in executive session and that Ms. 
Tessmer had the option to elect open or executive session up to the point of the Commission's 
vote to convene in executive session. The meeting then continued in open session and the 
Commission upheld the disciplinary action taken against Ms. Tessmer. 
Upon the filing of this complaint, the Commission attempted to remedy the error in the 
notice for its January 24 meeting by convening a special meeting on February 12 to repeat the 
discussion and reaffirm the vote upholding the disciplinary action taken against Ms. Tessmer. 
The meeting notice, posted on February 6, listed two topics for discussion pursuant to executive 
session Purpose 1: "Rehearing of Interim Employee Dispute Resolution Step 3" and "Discussion 
of issues which may go to the character or reputation or may result in possible discipline or 
discharge of an employee." The notice did not reference the present Open Meeting Law 
complaint or the notice posting mistake discussed during the January 24 meeting. During the 
meeting, Attorney Whalen addressed this complaint and explained that the purpose for the 
meeting was to remediate the notice posting violation by repeating the discussion concerning the 
appeal.4 The Commission ultimately voted to uphold the disciplinary action taken against Ms. 
Tessmer. 
2 Unless otherwise specified, all dates referenced hereafter are in 2014. 
3 The notice sent to Ms. Tessmer pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) listed the correct meeting time. 
4 She also noted that the Commission believed it had already taken remedial action by correcting the notice on 
January 23. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The Commission then proceeded to discuss a separate disciplinary matter concerning Ms. 
Tessmer. Although the Commission planned to convene in executive session pursuant to 
Purpose 1, Ms. Tessmer again requested that the discussion be held in open session. The 
Commission was unable to finish its discussion during this meeting, however, and convened a 
meeting on April 4 to continue it. 
The meeting notice for the April 4 meeting, posted on April 1, listed an executive session 
topic for discussion pursuant to Purpose 1 to discuss "issues which may go to the character or 
reputation or may result in possible discipline or discharge of an employee." Just as he had done 
prior to the January 24 meeting. Airport Manager Sean Flynn sent notice of this upcoming 
meeting under Purpose 1 to Ms. Tessmer in a letter dated April 1, which was sent to her post 
office box by certified mail and by email. Additionally, a copy of the notice was sent by email to 
Attorney Saulnier.5 Attorney Saulnier responded to Attorney Whalen by email to inform her that 
neither he nor Ms. Tessmer would be able to attend the meeting and asked for a one-week 
continuance. The Commission decided to proceed with the meeting as scheduled. Ms. Tessmer 
was not present for the meeting but Attorney Saulnier was. Despite the anticipated executive 
session listed on the meeting notice, the Commission decided not to convene in executive session 
and did not hear any further testimony concerning the charges against Ms. Tessmer. The 
Commission voted in open session to terminate Ms. Tessmer based on the evidence presented 
during the February 12 meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Commission Failed to Comply With Notice Posting Requirements under the 
Open Meeting Law. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include, the date, time and place of such meeting and a "listing of topics that the 
chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public 
bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 
2012-34; OML 2014-47.6 We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body's discussion. See OML 2014-58; OML 20131-57. 
The notice for the Commission's January 24 meeting, which was posted at least 48 hours 
before the meeting, listed an incorrect time for the meeting. While this appears to have been a 
clerical error, the Commission's meeting at a time other than that posted 48 hours in advance 
nonetheless constituted a violation of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-34; OML 2011-
32. The Commission believed it had remediated the violation prior to the meeting by issuing a 
corrected meeting notice. After the filing of this complaint, however, the Commission convened 
a meeting on February 12 and took the additional step of the Commission repeating the 
5 We note that when scheduling the January 24 meeting. Attorney Saulnier had agreed to accept service of the notice 
on his client's behalf. There is some disagreement as to whether this applied to notice of future meetings. 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
discussion and reaffirming the vote taken. We commend the Commission for taking appropriate 
remedial action to address this inadvertent violation. 
In trying to address the earlier violation, however, the Commission again violated the 
Law. The Commission's February 12 meeting notice stated it would be re-hearing an employee 
dispute but failed to mention the reason for that discussion, including any mention of this 
complaint or the Commission's failure to properly post notice of the January 24 meeting. See 
OML 2014-78. Because the Chair clearly anticipated discussing those matters, we find that the 
Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to specifically list all of the anticipated 
discussion topics in its February 12 meeting notice. See OML 2014-71. 
As a final matter, we note that, although acting in good faith, the Commission's 
longstanding practice of posting meeting notices at the Airport does not comply with the present 
Open Meeting Law's notice posting requirements. See G.L. c. 30, § 20(c); 940 CMR 29.03. The 
Commission, created by G.L. c. 90, § 5 IE, serves all of the towns on the island of Martha's 
Vineyard and is therefore considered a regional public body under the Open Meeting Law. See 
OML 2013-117. Accordingly, our office has advised the Commission that, going forward, it 
must comply with the notice posting requirements for regional public bodies by posting notice in 
each town within the region in the manner prescribed for local public bodies in that town, or 
alternatively, posting to the Airport's website.7 G.L. c. 30, § 20(c); 940 CMR 29.03(3). 
11. The Commission Complied with the Procedural Requirements of G.L. c. 30A, 
^ 21(a)(1). 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3). One permissible reason for executive session is Purpose 1, "[t]o discuss 
the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional 
competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or 
charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(1). The individual to be discussed in such an executive session must be notified in writing 
by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session. Id. 
Attorney Saulnier alleges that notice for the April 4 meeting was insufficient because he 
did not agree to accept service of the notice sent to his client, Ms. Tessmer. We find that the 
Commission made reasonable efforts to comply with the notice requirement pursuant to G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(1) by sending the letter via email and certified mail to Ms. Tessmer along with a 
copy to her counsel. Furthermore, Attorney Saulnier's request that the Commission re-schedule 
the meeting, in part because Ms. Tessmer could not attend, demonstrates that Ms. Tessmer 
received actual notice of the meeting. Accordingly, the Commission did not violate the Law in 
this regard. 
7 We also remind the Commission that the Attorney General's regulations require that "[t]he date and 
time that the notice is posted shall be conspicuously recorded thereon or therewith." 940 CMR 29.03(1 )(b). 
4 
===PAGE 5===
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to properly post 
notice for its January 24 meeting and by failing to provide sufficient detail in the notice for its 
February 12 meeting. We therefore order the Commission's immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that future similar conduct may be considered evidence 
of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Commission 
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Theodore Saulnier, Esq. 
Martha's Vineyard Airport Commission 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
5 
===PAGE 6===
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
6 