===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
November 13, 2014 
OML 2014-133 
www.mass.gov/ago 
Jeffrey Schoonover 
Superintendent of Schools 
580 Whetstone Hill Road 
Somerset, MA 02726 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Schoonover: 
This office received three complaints on August 18 from Patrick Higgins, alleging that 
the Somerset School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
3 OA, §§ 18-25.1 Two of the complaints were filed with the Committee on April 6 and allege that 
during the Committee's March 20 and April 4 meetings, the Chair unlawfully required persons 
attending the meetings to seek permission from the Chair to record the meetings. The complaints 
further allege that the notices for the two meetings failed to include sufficiently specific detail 
about anticipated executive session topics. The third complaint was filed with the Committee on 
April 9, and alleges that the Committee held an improper executive session discussion on or 
about April 3 to consider the membership for a Superintendent Search Committee; that the 
Committee engaged in improper email deliberation; and that the notice for the Committee's 
April 3 meeting failed to include sufficiently specific detail about anticipated executive session 
topics. The Committee responded to all three complaints by letter dated August 12.2 
Following our review, we find no evidence that the Committee engaged in email 
deliberation regarding the superintendent search process. However, we find that the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law by requiring attendees at two meetings to seek permission from 
the Chair to record; by failing to include sufficiently specific detail about anticipated executive 
session topics in the notices for those same meetings; and by meeting in executive session to 
discuss the superintendent hiring process. The Committee has admitted these violations, and we 
commend it for taking some remedial action in response to the complaints. 
1 All dates refer to the year 2014 unless otherwise specified. 
2 We remind the Committee that unless our office grants an extension of time, it must respond to an Open Meeting 
Law complaint within 14 business days of receipt. 940 CMR 29.05(5). If the Committee requires additional time to 
resolve the complaint, it may obtain an extension from the Attorney General by submitting a written request within 
14 business days after receiving the complaint. 940 CMR 29.05(5)(b). 
===PAGE 2===
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the three complaints filed with the 
Committee, the Committee's response, and the complaints filed with our office. Additionally, 
we reviewed the notices and minutes for the Committee's March 20 and April 3 meetings. 
FACTS 
The notices for the Committee's March 20 and April 3 meetings included the follow 
topic: 
MA General Laws Chapter 3OA, Section 21(a) (2) to conduct strategy session in 
preparation for negotiations with certain non-union personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with non-union personnel. 
During the Committee's March 20 meeting, the Chair began the meeting by requiring 
anyone in attendance wishing to record the meeting to seek the Committee's permission. During 
the meeting, the Committee entered into executive session to discuss the contracts of several 
non-union employees and at least one union. 
During the Committee's April 3 executive session, in addition to negotiating the contracts 
of several non-union employees and at least one union, the Committee discussed appointments 
to, and the progress of, a Superintendent Search Committee. 
The Committee did not meet on April 4. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Committee Improperly Required Meeting Attendees to Seek Permission from the 
Chair to Record. 
The Open Meeting Law states that "[a]fter notifying the chair of the public body, any 
person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a public body." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(e). In its response to the complaints, the Committee acknowledged that the 
Chair made a mistake during its March 20 meeting by suggesting that attendees needed to seek 
permission from, rather than simply notify, the Chair prior to recording the meeting.3 The 
Committee has adopted language for use during future meetings, and instructed the Chair to 
announce during meetings that "anyone in the audience who would like to record the meeting 
should let the Chair know." We find this to be appropriate remedial action in response to this 
violation and order no additional relief. 
3 We find no violation with respect to the April 4 meeting because no meeting occurred on that date. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
2. The Committee's Notices Failed to Identify the Union or Non-union Personnel with 
whom it was Negotiating. 
Meeting notices must include "a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will 
be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The list of topics shall have sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b). When announcing an executive session to discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining or a non-union personnel contract, the public body generally must identify in the 
notice the name of individual or collective bargaining unit it will be discussing. See OML 2014-
69; OML 2013-97.4 
The Committee failed to identify in the notice for its March 20 and April 3 meetings the 
union or non-union personnel with whom it was negotiating.5 Therefore, we find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law because its notices were not sufficiently specific.6 In 
its response to the complaints, the Committee writes that "[th]e violation noted by Mr. Higgins 
relative to going into Executive Session for negotiations with 'non-union personnel' has since 
been corrected to always state the positions that intend to be discussed." We find this to be an 
appropriate response to the complaint. 
3. The Committee Held a Discussion in Executive Session that was not Appropriate for 
Executive Session. 
With respect to Mr. Higgins' third complaint, the Committee acknowledges that it 
violated the Open Meeting Law by meeting in executive session on April 3 to discuss 
appointments to, and the progress of, a Superintendent Search Committee. This topic was not 
appropriate under any of the ten enumerated executive session purposes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a); OML 2013-155; OML 2013-33. The Committee acknowledged this violation in its 
response to the complaint, and has pledged to take steps "to ensure that the reason for Executive 
Session is fully disclosed on the Open Session agenda and only items noted are discussed." We 
remind the Committee that it must also ensure that its executive session discussions fit within 
one or more of the 10 purposes for executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). 
4. We Find no Evidence that the Committee Engaged in Deliberation over Email. 
The Committee denies it engaged in any email deliberations regarding appointments to 
the Superintendent Search Committee, and Mr. Higgins has not provided any support for his 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 Although not raised in the complaint, we note from our review of the March 20 executive session minutes that the 
Committee voted to approve a non-union personnel contract in executive session. We remind the Committee that it 
may not take a final vote to execute non-union personnel contracts in executive session. See OML 2011-56; OML 
2011-44; OML 2011-28. 
6 We find no violation with respect to an April 4 meeting notice because the Committee did not meet on April 4. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
broad allegation that Committee members have been discussing matters over email. Therefore, 
we do not find sufficient evidence that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in this 
manner. 
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by requiring attendees at two 
meetings to seek permission from the Chair to record; by failing to include sufficiently specific 
details about anticipated executive session topics in the notices for two meetings; and by meeting 
in executive session to discuss the superintendent hiring process. We commend the Committee 
for acknowledging these violations and taking some remedial action in response to the 
complaints. 
We order the Committee's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, and caution that a future similar violation may be considered evidence of an intentional 
violation of the Law. Additionally, we order the Committee, within 30 days of receipt of this 
order, to: 
(1) amend its March 20 and April 3 open session minutes to include the identity of the 
unions and non-union personnel whose contracts were discussed in executive session on 
those dates; and 
(2) release to the public the portions of its April 3 executive session minutes concerning 
appointments to, and the progress of, the Superintendent Search Committee. 
We now consider these matters closed. Please contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions. 
cc: Somerset School Committee 
Patrick Higgins 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
4 