===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 25, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 70 
 
VIA EMAIL ONL
 Y 
 
Stasia Powers 
Chair, Fairhaven Select Board 
spowers@fairhaven‐ma.gov 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Powers: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on October 17, 2022,
1 alleging that 
the Fairhaven Select Board (the “Board”), and specifically you as Chair, violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or 
about September 23, and the Board responded to the Complainant on October 17. The complaint 
alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 1) met in executive session on 
September 6 without identifying the bargaining unit to be discussed; and 2) did not approve the 
minutes of a July 30 “working session- retreat” in a timely manner.   
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a) and find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
identify the collective bargaining unit to be discussed in executive session. We find that the 
Board did not otherwise violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, 
the notice and minutes for the Board’s September 6 meeting, and Board meeting notices posted 
online. Additionally, we communicated via email with the Board’s chair
2 and the Town 
Administrator.  
 
On July 30 the Board held a retreat. The Board met again on August 1, August 15, and 
September 6. Relevant here, the notice for the Board’s September 6 meeting included the 
following two topics:  
 
Approve the minutes of July 30, 2022 — Working Session- Retreat 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise noted. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
. . . 
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION-Pursuant to MGL Ch. 30A§ 21(a)(3) 
1. To discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an 
open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating 
position of the public body and the chair so declares among other things. 
 
During the September 6 meeting the Board voted to approve the minutes of the 
July 30 retreat and voted to convene in executive session “to conduct strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares.” The Board did not identify the bargaining unit to be discussed.  
 
Timely approval of minutes 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes must be created and 
approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). “Timely manner” means “within the next 
three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can 
show good cause for further delay.” 940 CMR 29.11. Whenever possible, we recommend that 
minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2018-67; OML 2017-133.
3  
 
Here, the Board timely approved the minutes of the July 30 retreat when it approved 
those minutes at its September 6 meeting, the third meeting following the retreat. Accordingly, 
the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
  
Sufficiency of executive session notice topic 
 
Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any one or more of the ten 
purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One such purpose is to 
discuss, “strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have 
a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).  
 
Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in the 
announcem
ent during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); 940 CMR 
29.03(1)(b); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 
561, 567 (2009) ( “[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is 
necessary . . . because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would 
conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so 
was proper or improper”). When convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3 to discuss 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining, a public body must identify, both on the meeting 
notice and in the announcement before entering executive session, the collective bargaining unit 
that will be discussed, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy. See OML 
2018-139; OML 2016-43; OML 2015-87. Although we generally defer to a public body’s 
assessment of whether the inclusion of such detail may compromise the purpose for the 
executive session, the public body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for that claim 
if challenged. See OML 2018-139. 
 
 Here, the Board did not identify the collective bargaining unit to be discussed in either 
the notice for the September 6 meeting or the announcement prior to convening in executive 
session. In its response to the complaint the Board asserts, without explanation, that 
“[i]dentifying the bargaining unit would have compromised the purpose and strategy for which 
the executive session was called.” By email to the Chair and the Town Administrator on 
February 14 our office explained that although we generally defer to a public body’s assessment 
that identifying the bargaining unit may have jeopardized the purpose for the executive session, 
it is the public body’s burden to demonstrate a reasonable basis for that belief if challenged. We 
requested that the Board explain the basis for its assertion that identifying the bargaining unit 
would have jeopardized the purpose for the executive session. The Board did not respond.  
 
The Open Meeting Law does not give a public body broad discretion to withhold the 
ident
ity of the bargaining unit to be discussed. Rather, to justify nondisclosure, the Board would 
have had to conclude that disclosure of the bargaining unit may “compromis[e] the purpose for 
which the executive session was called.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). In this instance, the “purpose” 
was “[t]o discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining . . . .” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). 
Thus, the Board must supply information sufficient for the Attorney General to determine 
whether there was a reasonable basis for the Board to have reached the conclusion that 
identifying the bargaining unit may have had a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of 
the Board. See OML 2020-68. The Board supplied no such information; therefore, we find that 
the Board has not met its burden and that it violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to identify 
the collective bargaining unit to be discussed in executive session.    
 
For t
he reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to identify the bargaining unit to be discussed in executive session. We find that the 
Board did not otherwise violate the Open Meeting Law. We order the Board’s immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar future violations could 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Additionally, although we do not order full 
release of the minutes of the September 6 executive session, we order the Board, within 30 days 
of the date of this letter, to disclose to the public at an open session meeting the identity of the 
bargaining unit discussed in executive session on September 6. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Angie Lopes Ellison, Fairhaven Town Administrator (via e- mail: 
alopesellison@fairhaven‐ma.gov) 
Fairhaven Town Clerk (via e-mail: lfredette@fairhaven-ma.gov) 
Patrick Higgins (via email: )   
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
