===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
October 29, 2019 
OML 2019-135
Olympia A. Bowker, Esq. 
McGregor & Legere 
15 Court Square - Suite 500 
Boston, MA 02108
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Bowker:
This office received a complaint from Attorney James March on June 18, 2019, alleging 
that the proposed Herring River Technical Team (“Team”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Town of Wellfleet (“Town”) and 
the Cape Code National Seashore on or about May 9, and you responded to the complaint, on 
behalf of the Town, by letter dated May 29. Attorney Melissa Boness also responded, on behalf 
of the United States Department of the Interior, by letter dated May 29. The complaint alleges 
that the newly- or soon-to-be-created Herring River Technical Team (“the Team”) is a public 
body subject to the Open Meeting Law, yet does not intend to comply with the requirements of 
the Open Meeting Law.
Following our review, we find that the Team is not a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the responses 
from the Town and the Department of the Interior, the request for further review filed with our 
office, and multiple iterations of a Memorandum of Understanding between the National Park 
Service and the Town of Wellfleet, which established the Team. We also spoke with counsel for 
the Town of Wellfleet to confirm the current status of the Team.
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2019 unless otherwise noted.

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Town of Wellfleet and the National Park Service, 
through its Cape Cod National Seashore, are undertaking a “Herring River Restoration Project” 
(the “Project”) to prevent degradation of the Herring River estuary in Wellfleet and to rebuild 
infrastructure, among other goals. The Town of Wellfleet and the National Park Service entered 
into a series of Memoranda of Understanding, each superseding the prior, setting forth various 
terms of the Project.2 3 Among other things, the MOU established the Team to “function as an 
informal, sounding board composed of intergovernmental technical staff to provide technical 
input for Project-related decisions as necessary or appropriate.” (MOU at p. 7). The MOU 
expressly provided:
The [Team] shall have no set number of members, it meets as needed or desired, 
and may consist of staff members from the following federal, state, and local 
governmental entities: Wellfleet, CCNS, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the Massachusetts Division of 
Ecological Restoration, the U.S. Natural Resources Conservation Service, and 
other entities with appropriate technical knowledge to assist the Project.
Participating staff members shall be designated at the sole discretion of any 
participating agency.
The [Team] shall have no quorum requirement and is not a tribunal making 
governmental decisions. The [Team] does not possess any authority to make 
decisions that bind the Project, Wellfleet, the CCNS, or the Project Partner 
Agencies; it is not empowered by any Party to act collectively; and does not have 
any power to take actions for the Project. The Parties disclaim any intention to 
create in the [Team] a public body for purposes of the Massachusetts Open 
Meeting Law or the federal or Massachusetts Public Records Act.
(MOU at p. 7).
DISCUSSION
As a preliminary matter, we note that as of the time that this Open Meeting Law 
complaint was filed, the Team had not yet held any meetings, and the complaint does not allege 
that the Team had actually violated the Open Meeting Law. Rather, the complaint asserted that 
the Team intended not to comply with the Law. Although we could decline to review this 
complaint since it does not allege any actual violations of the Open Meeting Law, we take this 
opportunity to provide guidance to the Team and to the Complainant on the issues raised in the 
Complaint, namely, whether the Team is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law.
The Open Meeting Law defines a “public body,” in relevant part, as “a multiple member 
board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or * *
2 The Town of Truro had been a party to earlier versions of the MOU.
3 The MOU is available online at http://www.friendsofherringriver.org/Memoranda-of-Understandmg
2

===PAGE 3===
within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18.
To determine whether a multiple-member entity is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, there are three factors we consider:
1. The entity must be “within” government and not excluded from the definition of 
“public body;”
2. The entity must be a “body” empowered to act collectively; and
3. The entity must serve a “public purpose.”
See OML 2017-118; OML 2016-102; OML 2012-20; OML 2011-42; OML 2010-1.4
The Team likely satisfies the third factor, as its role in gathering and analyzing technical 
information with regard to the Herring River likely serves a public purpose. See OML 2017- 
118; OML 2016-102. However, we find that it fails the first two factors, and therefore is not a 
public body subject to the Open Meeting Law.
The Team fails the first factor because it is not “within government.” Where an entity is 
not clearly placed within government by law, as is the case here, it may still be “within” 
government if the government played a significant role in creating or structuring the group, the 
government has control over the group, and the group primarily performs an essentially 
governmental function. See OML 2016-83; OML 2010-1. We find that the Team does not satisfy 
all three of these factors and therefore it is not “within” government. See OML 2016-83; OML 
2015-34; OML 2015-189. Although the government, i.e., the Town of Wellfleet, played a 
significant role in creating and structuring the Team, so did the United States National Park 
Service. The Massachusetts Open Meeting Law does not apply to federal bodies. Furthermore, 
there is no indication that Town of Wellfleet has control over the Team, which consists of staff 
members from the Town of Wellfleet, as well as from the Cape Cod National Seashore, the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the 
Massachusetts Division of Ecological Restoration, the U.S. Natural Resources Conservation 
Service, and “other entities with appropriate technical knowledge,” in no particular number. 
There is no evidence that representatives to the Team from the Town of Wellfleet control the 
Team, either by number or by influence. Because the Team does not satisfy all three factors, as 
outlined above, we find that it is not “within government,” and therefore is not a public body 
subject to the Open Meeting Law.
Although our conclusion that the Team does not satisfy the first factor of our test is 
determinative, we also find that the Team does not satisfy the second factor. As to the second 
factor, the Team does not have a defined membership that is empowered to act collectively. See 
OML 2015-162; OML 2015-46; OML 2012-20. Rather, according to the MOU, the Team “shall 
function as an informal, sounding board composed of intergovernmental technical staff to 
provide technical input for Project related decisions as necessary or appropriate,” and “shall have 
no set number of members” and “shall have no quorum requirement and is not a tribunal making 
governmental decisions.” In fact, the MOU expressly provides that the Team “does not possess
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found online at https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law
3

===PAGE 4===
any authority to make decisions that bind the [Herring River Restoration Project], Wellfleet, the 
CCNS, or the Project Partner Agencies; is not empowered by any Party to act collectively and 
does not have any power to take actions for the Project.” The MOU went so far as to “disclaim 
any intention to create in the [Team] a public body for purposes of the Massachusetts Open 
Meeting Law or the federal or Massachusetts Public Records Act.” Without a defined 
membership empowered to act collectively, we find that the Team also fails the second prong of 
our test. See OML 2015-162.
Because the Team fails two of the three factors that we consider when determining 
whether an entity is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, we find that the Team is not 
a public body and is not subject to the Open Meeting Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Team is not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Steering Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: James Marsh, Esq.
Melissa Boness, Esq.
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
