===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 22, 2016 
OML 2016-114 
Lisa L, Mead, Esq. 
Blatman, Bobrowski, Mead & Talerman, LLC 
30 Green Street 
Newburyport, MA 01950 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Dear Attorney Mead: 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan, dated May 25, alleging that the 
Ashland Capital Improvement Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on March 23, 
and the Committee responded by letter dated April 7. In his complaint, Mr. Morgan alleges that 
the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) posting an insufficiently detailed notice 
for its March 7 meeting, and (ii) failing to include in the minutes of its February 22 meeting a list 
of all documents used at that meeting.2 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently detailed meeting notice. However, the Committee did not violate the 
law in the other ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the Committee's response, and the request for further review filed with our office. We 
also reviewed the notice and minutes of a Committee meeting held on March 7, as well as the 
minutes of the Committee's February 22 meeting. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 The complaint also contains allegations that, even if proven true, would not constitute violations of the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Committee did not agree on the 
content of the meeting notice at issue, and that the documents used at a meeting have not been made part of "the 
public record." Because these allegations do not implicate the Open Meeting Law, we decline to review them. See 
OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). Further, the complaint alleges 
that the Committee has "a history of similar conduct." Our office will not investigate such generalized allegations. 
See OML Declination 12-22-15 (Groveland Planning Board). Open Meeting Law declinations may be found at the 
Attorney General's website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a seven-member public body, of which 
the complainant is a member. On March 2, the Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held 
on March 7. Under the heading "New Business," the notice stated that the Committee would 
discuss a "Scope adjustment request." The notice did not include any further description of the 
topic. 
The Committee convened its March 7 meeting as planned. During the portion of the 
meeting reserved for the discussion of the "Scope adjustment request," the Committee discussed 
potential changes to bylaws governing the Committee and the scope of the Committee's work. 
The complainant objected to this discussion, stating that he had not understood the topic as listed 
on the meeting notice. The Committee nevertheless continued to discuss the matter. Later in the 
meeting, the Committee approved the minutes of its February 22 meeting. Those minutes 
included a list of documents used at the February 22 meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body must post notice of a meeting at least 48 hours in advance, including a 
"listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 
3OA, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics on a notice with "sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b); OML 2014-47. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the agenda item "Scope adjustment request" is not 
sufficiently detailed to inform the public of what the Committee would discuss. We agree. A 
reasonable member of the public reading the notice would not have understood that the 
Committee would discuss bylaw changes or the scope of its own authority. Indeed, the 
complainant, a member of the Committee, seems to have been confused by the meaning of the 
notice topic. In its response, the Committee concedes that the notice "should have been clearer." 
This lack of detail violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2015-193. 
The complaint also alleges that the Committee approved minutes that do not contain a list 
of documents used at that meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a) ("A public body shall create and 
maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including ...a list of documents and other exhibits 
used at the meeting[.]") During the March 7 meeting, the Committee approved minutes of its 
February 22 meeting. Because these minutes contain a list of the documents the Committee used 
at that meeting, we find no violation with respect to this allegation.3 
3 There may have been some confusion between the parties regarding the Committee's obligations under the Open 
Meeting Law with regard to documents used during a meeting. The Open Meeting Law does not require a public 
body to store documents used in a particular place or to post them to a website. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law's requirements, and we 
caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganard 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Stephen Morgan 
Ashland Capital Improvement Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c), A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 