===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
August 24, 2012 
2012 OML — 81 
Jeffrey Bernstein 
BCK Law P.C. 
One Gateway Center, Suite 809 
Newton, MA 02458 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Bernstein: 
This office received two Open Meeting Law complaints from Mr. Eric Bibler, dated June 
16, 2011 and July 20, 2011, alleging that the Governing Boards of the Cape Light Compact 
("CLC") and the Cape Vineyard and Electric Cooperative, Inc. ("CVEC") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The June 16, 2011 complaint specifically alleges that CLC 
failed to "disclose topics discussed in Executive Sessions," failed to "release information for 
which secrecy is no longer required," and that CLC has used executive sessions to "withhold 
information from the public and to discuss matters for which secrecy is not justified under the 
OML." The July 20, 2011 complaint alleges that the CLC transferred funds to CVEC during an 
executive session on March 23, 2011, and that the "transfer of money is not entitled to secrecy 
by any provision of the Open Meeting Law [and] there is no 'lawful purpose' for secrecy that 
applies." (emphasis in original). The first complaint was filed with the CLC and the CVEC 
Governing Boards on March 18, 2011. The CLC and the CVEC responded by letter on April 6, 
2011. The second complaint was filed with the CLC and the CVEC Governing Boards on June 
23, 2011. The CLC and the CVEC responded by letter on July 7, 2011. 
In his June 16, 2011 complaint, the complainant alleges a general practice by the Boards 
of the CLC and the CVEC of failing to "disclose topics discussed in Executive Sessions;" failing 
to "release information for which secrecy is no longer required;" and using executive sessions to 
"withhold information from the public and to discuss matters for which secrecy is not justified 
under the OML." After he filed his complaints with our office, the complainant asked us to 
review all executive session minutes since the founding of the CLC and CVEC. We decline to 
review generalized allegations covering a broad time period. See OML Declination 3-20-12 
===PAGE 2===
(stating that this office "will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized 
allegations.")1  We did, however, review a sample of the Boards' executive session minutes from 
meetings that occurred in 2010 and 2011 that covered specific matters raised by the complaints. 
Following our review, we find that the Boards did not violate the Open Meeting Law, and 
convened executive sessions for legal purposes. However, although not raised by the 
complainant, we note that the Boards did fail to provide sufficient specificity in announcing the 
topics for discussion and legal purpose for entering executive session in its meeting notices. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the March 18, 2011 and June 23, 2011 complaints filed 
with CLC and CVEC; CLC's and CVEC's April 6, 2011 and July 7, 2011 respective responses 
to the complaints; the June 16, 2011 and July 20, 2011 complaints filed with this office; and 
numerous email communications from the complainant to our office, providing further 
information for our review. We also reviewed, in camera, executive session minutes provided in 
response to a request by this office from the CLC Governing Board's meetings between January 
13, 2010 and March 23, 2011, and from the CVEC Governing Board's meetings between 
January 28, 2010 and March 17, 2011. We also reviewed confidentiality and non-disclosure 
agreements between CLC and other entities, and statements by Joseph Soares, CLC's Senior 
Power Supply Planner, and Jonathan Wallach, a consultant to the electric-power industry, 
regarding the nature of confidential information in the energy supply industry, all provided to our 
office by CLC and CVEC. Finally, we interviewed by telephone CLC and CVEC Administrator 
Margaret Downey, with Attorney Erin O'Toole participating, on November 29, 2011. 
FACTS 
The Cape Light Compact was formed in 1997 through an inter-governmental agreement, 
pursuant to G.L. c. 164, §134; G.L. c. 25A, § 6; and G.L. c. 40, § 4A. The CLC Board is a 23 
member body, consisting of Barnstable County, Dukes County, and all of the 21 municipalities 
located within these counties on Cape Cod and Martha's Vineyard. The purposes of the CLC 
include aggregating consumers as part of the competitive market for electricity; negotiating the 
best terms and conditions for electricity supply; and supporting environmental protection, energy 
efficiency, and renewable energy development. The CLC is funded through ratepayer funds, 
federal and state grants, county general funds, and administrative charges levied on electricity 
sold through the CLC's aggregated power supply contract with its private competitive electric 
supplier. The CLC Governing Board is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
The Cape & Vineyard Electric Cooperative, Inc., was formed out of a strategic planning 
process commissioned and undertaken by the CLC. The CVEC was organized in 2007 with 
three members: CLC, Barnstable County, and the Town of Barnstable. Currently, the CVEC has 
19 members consisting of 16 towns, Barnstable and Dukes County, and the CLC. The CVEC's 
long term goal is to develop electric generation projects or contracts to stabilize electric rates for 
all CLC customers. The CLC does not have the authority to develop electric generation projects. 
The CVEC Board is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
The CVEC and the CLC have entered into an administrative agreement with Barnstable 
County so that Barnstable County can perform certain administrative and fiscal functions for 
1  Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
2 
===PAGE 3===
both the CVEC and the CLC. The two entities share a close relationship, with some individual 
municipal representatives serving on both boards. The CLC also fmances the CVEC. 
In October 2010, the CVEC applied for a special permit to construct twin 410-foot wind 
turbines in the Town of Brewster. On February 16, 2011, the Brewster Planning Board 
effectively denied the special permit request by a 3-3-1 vote. On March 17, 2011, the CVEC's 
Board voted 8-2-2 to appeal the special permit denial to the Department of Public Utilities. That 
appeal has not yet been filed. 
On March 23, 2011, the CLC Governing Board met and entered executive session 
"pursuant to 1) MGL Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(3) to discuss litigation strategy regarding 
various DPU proceedings and pursuant to 2) Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(10) to discuss trade 
secrets or confidential, competitively sensitive or other proprietary information related to energy 
projects in which the Compact is participating as a member of the Cape and Vineyard Electric 
Cooperative since it is determined that disclosure will adversely affect the Compact's ability to 
conduct business in relation to other entities making, selling, or distributing electric power and 
energy and the Compact is a municipal aggregator under Section 134 of Said Chapter 164." We 
have reviewed the minutes from this executive session, but because they have not been publicly 
released we do not recount their content in detail here. However, it is clear from the minutes and 
our interview with the CLC Administrator that during this meeting the CLC Governing Board 
discussed its pursuit of an appeal of the Brewster Planning Board's permit denial to the 
Department of Public Utilities. The Board specifically discussed and approved itemized 
litigation costs with respect to the appeal. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge,  376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)—(b), 21. Among the ten enumerated purposes for executive session is 
Purpose 3, "[to] discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body 
and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(3). A public body may only use this purpose to 
discuss litigation that is pending or clearly or imminently threatened. See Perryman v. School  
Committee of Boston,  17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983). Additional purposes for executive 
session include Purpose 7, "No comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or special 
law or federal grant-in-aid requirements"; and — of most relevance here — Purpose 10: 
To discuss trade secrets or confidential, competitively-sensitive or other proprietary 
information provided in the course of activities conducted by a governmental body as an 
energy supplier under a license granted by the department of public utilities pursuant to 
section 1F of chapter 164, in the course of activities conducted as a municipal aggregator 
under section 134 of said chapter 164 or in the course of activities conducted by a 
cooperative consisting of governmental entities organized pursuant to section 136 of said 
chapter 164, when such governmental body, municipal aggregator or cooperative 
3 
===PAGE 4===
determines that such disclosure will adversely affect its ability to conduct business in 
relation to other entities making, selling or distributing electric power and energy. 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(7), (10). 
Before entering an executive session, "the chair shall state the purpose for the executive 
session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). Additionally, a majority of the 
members of the body must vote to go into executive session, and the vote of each member must 
be recorded by roll call vote and entered into the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(4). The 
"minutes of any executive session... may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their 
entirety under subclause (a) of clause Twenty-sixth of section 7 of chapter 4, as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer." G.L. c. 30, 
§ 22(f). The law further provides that "[w]hen the purpose for which a valid executive session 
was held has been served, the minutes, preparatory materials and documents and exhibits of the 
session shall be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or 1 or more of the exemptions 
under said clause Twenty-sixth of said section 7 of said chapter 4 apply to withhold these 
records, or any portion thereof, from disclosure." Id. 
1. The Governing Board of the CLC Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law on March 23, 
2011 by Conducting Business in Executive Session with Respect to Litigation Strategy.  
Following the Brewster Planning Board's denial of the CVEC's request for a special 
permit, the CVEC Board met on March 17, 2011 and voted 8-2-2 to appeal the special permit 
denial to the Department of Public Utilities. Because the CLC is a member of CVEC's 
Governing Board, and finances the CVEC, the CLC Board met to discuss the strategy with 
respect to that appeal at its March 23, 2011 meeting. According to its minutes, the Board entered 
executive session, in part, "pursuant to 1) MGL Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(3) to discuss 
litigation strategy with regarding various DPU proceedings." 
Although there was no pending litigation at the time, the CVEC Board had voted to 
appeal the Brewster Planning Board decision with the Department of Public Utilities. A petition 
to the Department of Public Utilities under G.L. c. 40A, § 3 follows procedures outlined in 220 
CMR 1.00, which closely resemble traditional litigation. Thus, litigation was "clearly or 
imminently threatened" by the CVEC and the CLC as a member and the financier of the CVEC. 
It was therefore appropriate for the CLC Board to meet in executive session to discuss strategy 
with respect to imminent litigation, including discussion about the expenditure of litigation costs. 
It should be noted that as of the date of this letter, the CVEC has not filed an appeal of 
the Brewster Planning Board's decision with the Department of Public Utilities. However, that 
fact, standing alone, does not change the analysis. Although the CVEC has not filed its appeal, it 
has been meeting consistently to plan litigation strategy for what it anticipates will be a complex 
and adversarial process, and has "clearly threatened" litigation. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
2. The Boards of CVEC and CLC Properly Invoked Purpose 10 to Meet in Executive  
Session to Protect Trade Secrets and Other Confidential and Competitively-Sensitive 
Information.  
The June 16, 2011 complaint alleges that the CLC failed to "disclose topics discussed in 
Executive Sessions," failed to "release information for which secrecy is no longer required," and 
that the CLC has used executive sessions to "withhold information from the public and to discuss 
matters for which secrecy is not justified under the OML." The minutes we reviewed show that 
the CLC and the CVEC have frequently cited executive session Purpose 10 when entering 
executive session during Governing Board meetings. 
Executive Session Purpose 10 applies to a limited number of public bodies that act as a 
"municipal aggregator under section 134 of said chapter 164 or in the course of activities 
conducted by a cooperative consisting of governmental entities organized pursuant to section 136 
of said chapter 164." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(10). The CLC is a municipal aggregator under G.L. 
c. 164, § 134, and the CVEC is a cooperative consisting of governmental entities organized 
pursuant to G.L. c. 164, § 136. Purpose 10 allows such public bodies to "discuss trade secrets or 
confidential, competitively-sensitive or other proprietary information provided in the course of 
activities...when such governmental body, municipal aggregator or cooperative determines that 
such disclosure will adversely affect its ability to conduct business in relation to other entities 
making, selling or distributing electric power and energy." Id. The law gives the public body 
invoking Purpose 10 discretion to determine when disclosure of trade secrets or competitively-
sensitive information will adversely affect its ability to conduct business in relation to other 
entities making, selling, or distributing electric power and energy. 
We reviewed a sampling of the executive session minutes from the CLC's meetings 
between January 13, 2010 and March 23, 2011, and the executive session minutes from the 
CVEC's meetings between January 28, 2010 and March 17, 2011, to better understand the nature 
of the Purpose 10 executive sessions. We believe that these executive sessions were properly 
convened and involved discussions related to trade secrets, confidential information, and other 
competitively-sensitive information related to the CLC's activities as a municipal aggregator of 
electricity, and to the CVEC's activities as a municipal cooperative. 
The "minutes of any executive session... may be withheld from disclosure to the public 
in their entirety under subclause (a) of clause Twenty-sixth of section 7 of chapter 4, as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer." G.L. c. 30, 
§ 22(f). The CLC and the CVEC maintain that release of many of the executive session minutes 
would continue to defeat the lawful purpose of the executive sessions. After having reviewed the 
Boards' executive session minutes, we credit their assertion that publication would continue to 
defeat the lawful purpose of the executive sessions, namely Purpose 10. 
We recognize that Purpose 10 allows a public body to hold important discussions and 
make decisions with significant public impact behind closed doors. However, the law provides 
these types of public bodies wide latitude to determine what information may be discussed 
outside of the public's view. In the interest of transparency, we encourage the Boards of both the 
CLC and the CVEC to provide as much public information about its executive session activities 
as possible, and to review older executive session minutes for possible release to the public. 
5 
===PAGE 6===
3. The Boards of the CVEC and the CLC did Not Provide Sufficient Specificity in 
Announcing the Purposes for Executive Session during Past Meetings.  
Although not raised by the complainant, in reviewing the executive session minutes of 
the Boards of the CVEC and the CLC, we found that during a number of the meetings in later 
2010, the Boards failed to state a specific purpose for entering executive session. Before 
entering an executive session, "the chair shall state the purpose for the executive session, stating 
all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive 
session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). For example, the minutes of the July 14, 2010 
CLC open meeting state that the "Board convened in Executive Session from 358PM unit 
418PM to discuss power contract issues." The minutes do not reflect a roll-call vote as required 
by the Open Meeting Law, and there is no purpose that specifically allows a public body to 
"discuss power contract issues." In reviewing the executive session minutes of the July 14, 2010 
meeting, however, it is clear that the Board entered executive session to discuss topics that were 
appropriate under Purposes 3 and 10. 
With respect to the CVEC, on July 15, 2010, the Board voted to enter executive session 
"for the purpose of discussing contract negotiations." No roll-call vote was recorded. It is clear 
from the executive session minutes that the Board discussed possible energy contracts during this 
executive session. This was proper for executive session under Purpose 10, but the Board failed 
to provide the public with necessary detail about the types of contracts or business the Board 
would be discussing. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); OML 2011-44. 
Margaret Downey, the Administrator of the CLC and the CVEC, assured this office that 
the Boards of the CLC and the CVEC have reviewed their procedures and are now fully 
complying with the Open Meeting Law with respect to entering executive sessions, listing 
descriptive topics in meeting notices, and announcing specific purposes for the executive 
sessions. We also understand from the Boards that both bodies now use a checklist to review the 
procedures required by the Open Meeting Law before entering executive session. We have 
reviewed more recent meeting notices and minutes for the Board of both the CLC and the 
CVEC, and both Boards do appear to be following the Open Meeting Law with respect to 
executive session procedures, specifically announcing the purpose for executive session.1  
CONCLUSION 
We fmd that the Governing Boards of the CLC and the CVEC did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law in holding meetings in executive session and continuing to withhold executive 
session minutes from the public. We do fmd that the Boards' statement of the purpose for 
entering executive session during a number of meetings in 2010 and 2011 was inadequate under 
the Open Meeting Law. However, the Boards have taken appropriate remedial action by 
amending their practices to include the use of a checklist to cover the procedural requirements 
before entering executive session. 
1  See, for example, the CLC's meeting notice for November 9, 2011; minutes of the CLC's July 13, 2011 open 
meeting; and the CVEC's September 15, 2011 meeting minutes. 
6 
===PAGE 7===
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during this investigation, and 
now consider this matter closed. Please contact me if you have any questions regarding this 
letter. 
Jo han Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Eric Bibler, Save Our Seashore 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
7 