===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 7, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 94 
 
 
VIA EMAIL  
 
Gregor A. Pagnini, Esq. 
Brody, Hardoon, Perkins & Kesten, LLP 
gpagnini@bhpklaw.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Pagnini: 
 
This office received a complaint from Michael Donahue on April 26, 2023, alleging that 
the Georgetown School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on March 8, and you 
responded to the complaint on behalf of the Committee by letter dated March 24.  The complaint 
alleges that the Committee approved minutes of its January 26 meeting that failed to accurately 
capture comments that the complainant made to the Committee during the public comment 
portion of the meeting. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s 
response, and the request for further review of the complaint along with several exhibits 
submitted by the complainant.  In addition, we reviewed the minutes of the Committee’s January 
26 meeting and a video recording of the Committee’s January 26 meeting.
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  When reviewing minutes for 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to 2023. 
2 The meeting video is available online at http://gctv.georgetownma.gov/show/7491. 
 
===PAGE 2===
requirement.  See OML 2013-64.3  By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should 
contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See OML 
2012-106.  A transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or 
opinion presented.  See OML 2017-104; OML 2016-40. 
 
   During the public comment period at the beginning of the Committee’s January 26 
meeting, the complainant spoke for approximately two minutes and 45 seconds.  The minutes 
include a 140-word summary of the complainant’s brief comments.  The complaint submits that 
the summary of his comments is inaccurate and misleading.  After review of a video recording of 
the complainant’s comments, we find that the minutes of the Committee’s January 26 meeting 
substantially comply with the Open Meeting Law’s accuracy requirement.  The Open Meeting 
Law does not require that meeting minutes be a transcript of the discussions held, nor that they 
include every remark or opinion presented.  In prior determinations, we have not required the 
level of detail and precision that the complainant seeks.  See, e.g., OML 2019-136 (finding that 
minutes substantially complied with the Law’s accuracy requirement when member of the public 
spoke during a public comment period and the minutes captured some of the complainant’s 
comments but, according to the complainant, failed to capture at least ten points the complainant 
included in her remarks); OML 2016-40.  Although the minutes do not include every remark 
made by the complainant, and do not track the precise language that he used in his comments, 
they contain an adequate summary of the comments.  See OML 2016-40.  We therefore find that 
the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if  
you have any questions.   
Sincerely, 
        
       Carrie Benedon 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
cc: Michael Donahue (via email: ) 
Georgetown School Committee (via email to secretary Tracy Parker: 
parkert@georgetown.k12.ma.us) 
Georgetown Town Clerk (via email: kmcmanus@georgetownma.gov) 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found on the Attorney General’s website at https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
