===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 13, 2021 
 
OML 2021 – 187 
 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Katherine Feodoroff 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite 1F 
Millis, MA 02054 
 
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff, 
 
 This office received a complaint from Bruce Young on December 3, 2020, alleging that 
the Hanson Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 4 and you responded, 
on behalf of the Board, by letter dated November 18.  The complaint alleges that during a 
meeting on September 2, the Board entered into executive session to conduct contract 
negotiations with the Highway Director, and improperly voted in executive session to amend the 
Highway Director’s employment agreement and to approve a severance payment.   
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by voting in executive session on 
September 17 to amend the Highway Director’s employment agreement and to approve a 
severance payment.  However, we find that the Board remedied the violation during its 
November 17 meeting.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Board’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review.  In addition, we reviewed the notices for the September 2 and November 17 meetings, 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 

===PAGE 2===
videos of the open session portions of the Board’s September 2 and November 17 meetings, and 
minutes of the November 17 meeting.2  
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on 
September 2 at 6:00 p.m.3  Among other topics, the notice included the topic “III EXECUTIVE 
SESSION To conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel 
or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.” 
 
 The Board convened on September 2 as planned.  After reciting the Pledge of Allegiance 
and convening in executive session for another matter, the Board returned to open session.  
There, the Chair announced that the second reason for entering executive session was “to 
conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct 
collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  The Board 
voted by roll call to enter executive session.  Following the second executive session, the Board 
returned to open session where Chair read the following statement: “The Town of Hanson with 
the approval of the Board of Selectmen has entered into an agreement with Matt Cahill to 
amicably part ways.  The Town wishes Mr. Cahill luck in his future endeavors and Mr. Cahill 
would like to thank the Town for the opportunity to serve as its highway director.” 
 
 The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on November 17 at 6:00 p.m.  Among 
other topics, the notice included the topic “Vote to retrospectively approve amendment to Matt 
Cahill’s employment contract.”  The Board convened on November 17 as planned.  During the 
meeting, the Chair announced that the Board is required by law to vote any amendments to 
contracts in open session, and as a result, the Board was required to approve the amendment to 
Mr. Cahill’s contract.  The Chair moved “to confirm the approval of the amendment to the 
employment contract between the Town of Hanson and Matt Cahill, as previously voted” at the 
September 2 meeting.  The Board then voted 4-0 with one abstention to approve the motion.  
Thereafter, the Board voted unanimously to approve the response to Mr. Young’s Open Meeting 
Law complaint that counsel had drafted and which had been distributed to the Board.4 
 
2 A video of the Board’s September 2 meeting is available online at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U2smTMi2Sww.  A video of the Board’s November 17 meeting is available 
online at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLEmEvJcqbg. 
3 We note that the notice of the September 2 meeting indicates that it was revised on September 1 but does not 
specify the date and time that notice was originally posted.  The Open Meeting Law Regulations provide that “[t]he 
date and time that a meeting notice is posted shall be conspicuously recorded thereon or therewith. If an amendment 
occurs within 48 hours of a meeting, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, then the date and time 
that the meeting notice is amended shall also be conspicuously recorded thereon or therewith.”  940 CMR 
29.03(1)(d).  Because the notice for the September 2 meeting was amended less than 48 hours prior to the meeting, 
the amended notice should have identified the date and time the notice was amended as well as the date and time the 
notice was originally posted. 
4 In his request for review of the complaint, Mr. Young asserts that the Board did not publicly review the Open 
Meeting Law complaint before voting to approve the response that counsel had drafted and circulated prior to the 
meeting.  A public body may review a complaint during a meeting and refer to a designee to respond, or a designee 
may receive and draft a response to the complaint for the public body to approve during a meeting, but a public body 
may not remove itself entirely from the process.  See OML 2021-120; OML 2020-164.  We have previously found 
that a public body satisfies its obligations under the Law when it votes during a meeting to approve a response that 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  A public 
body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the 
Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is 
recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether 
the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.5   
 
Before entering the executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive 
session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the 
N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the 
reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only notification 
given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the 
public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”).   
 
One permissible purpose for convening in executive session is to “conduct strategy 
sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(2) 
(“Purpose 2”).  The Open Meeting Law allows a public body to conduct contract negotiations 
with nonunion personnel in executive session, but does not authorize a public body to approve a 
contract in executive session.  See OML 2013-91; OML 2011-56; OML 2011-44.  Therefore, 
although a public body may reach an agreement on the terms of a contract in executive session, it 
must subsequently vote to approve or ratify such an agreement in open session.  See OML 2011-
28 (finding that school committee violated the Open Meeting Law by voting to approve 
superintendent's contract addendum in executive session).  Furthermore, when convening in 
executive session under Purpose 2, public bodies should identify, both in their notice and in the 
open session announcement, the name of the specific nonunion personnel that is the subject of 
discussion under Purpose 2, unless disclosure would compromise the Board's negotiating 
position. See OML 2015-193; OML 2016-70. 
 
We find, and the Board acknowledges, that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it voted in executive session on September 2 to amend the Highway Director’s 
employment contract to terminate the contract and to make a severance payment.  The Board 
erroneously believed that the Chair’s statement in open session following the executive session 
 
counsel had already drafted for the public body’s consideration.  The Open Meeting Law does not require a public 
body to engage in a substantive discussion of the merits of each complaint.  See OML 2020-38. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
vote that the Town entered into an agreement with the Highway Director “to amicably part 
ways” satisfied the Open Meeting Law’s requirements.  The Board now acknowledges that the 
vote itself must be conducted in open session. 
 
 Next, the Board asserts that it remedied the September 2 violation when, during a 
subsequent meeting on November 17, it voted in open session to approve the amendment to the 
Highway Director’s employment contract, after having placed the topic on the notice for that 
meeting.  We agree.  Violations of the Open Meeting Law may be cured by independent, 
deliberative action that is not merely a ceremonial acceptance and perfunctory ratification of 
action taken in violation of the Law.  See Pearson v. Bd. of Selectmen of Longmeadow, 49 Mass. 
App. Ct. 119, 125 (2000); OML 2020-7; OML 2016-49.  Generally, that means conducting 
deliberations anew at a subsequent meeting that is accessible to the public and for which proper 
notice is provided.  Here, the Board was not required to conduct the contract negotiations in open 
session in the first place; it was only required to vote to approve the contract amendment in open 
session.  Therefore, only the vote needed to be conducted anew in open session in order to 
remedy the prior violation.  We find that the vote the Board took in open session during its 
November 17 meeting constituted sufficient remedial action.6 
 
 Finally, although not raised in the complaint, we note that neither the notice for the 
Board’s September 2 meeting nor the Chair’s announcement prior to entering executive session 
identified the specific nonunion personnel to be discussed in executive session.  Unless 
identifying the Highway Director as the person to be discussed in executive session would have 
compromised the Board’s negotiations, both the notice and the Chair’s announcement should 
have informed the public of the specific nonunion personnel to be discussed.  See OML 2020-67. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
voting in executive session on September 2 to amend the Highway Director’s employment 
contract, but that the Board remedied this violation during its November 17 meeting.  We order 
immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future 
violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
      
 
 
 
6 In his request for review of the complaint, Mr. Young asserts that the Board’s open session vote on November 17 
still did not provide transparency regarding the specific terms of the contract amendment  and the severance 
payment.  Although we recommend as a best practice that public bodies disclose the specific terms that were 
negotiated in executive session under Purpose 2, we do not construe the Open Meeting Law as requiring such 
specificity in the open session vote.  We note that after the vote to approve the contract amendment was conducted, 
Mr. Young received the complete amended contract in response to a public record request. 
===PAGE 5===
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       Carrie Benedon 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  Bruce Young – By email only:  
 Hanson Board of Selectmen – By email only:   
 
 
