===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 6, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 206 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Edmund R. St. John, III, Esq. 
2 Center Street, Box 228 
Adams, MA 01220 
 
 
 RE: Open Mee
 ting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney St. John: 
 
This office received a complaint from Catherine Foster on February 18, 2024, alleging 
that the Adams Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or around January 12, 2024, and 
you responded on behalf of the Board by email on February 28.
1  The complaint asserts that 
minutes of five executive session meetings held in 2023, which were provided to the 
Complainant on December 13, 2023, demonstrate that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
in the following 11 ways: 
 
1. Routinely failing to review and approve executive session minutes in a timely 
manner, 
2. Failing to state the purpose for executive session, 
3. Improperly entering executive session for purposes not allowed by G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(6), 
4. The Chair failed to make appropriate declarations in open session, 
5. Failing to conduct periodic reviews of executive sessions at reasonable 
intervals, 
6. Improperly redacting the released executive session minutes, 
7. Failing to vote by roll call while in executive session, 
8. Failing to state the members present or absent in minutes, 
 
1 We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, 
the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the 
complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of 
the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
9. Failing to state whether the open meeting would resume after executive 
session, 
10. Failing to reference materials used in executive session, and 
11. Failing to keep accurate minutes of executive sessions. 
 
For the reasons set forth below, we decline to review allegations 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 9.  The 
Board conceded that it violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged in allegations 5, 7, 10, and 11, 
and we provide guidance on those issues below.  After review, we find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged in allegation 3.  In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint filed with the Board, the Board’s response, the Complainant’s 
request for further review of the complaint, and meeting notices and minutes that the 
Complainant provided as well as others available on the Town website. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We Declin e to Review Allegations That Were Not Timely Raised or That Would Not 
Constitute a Violation of the Open Meeting Law Even if True. 
 
As a preliminary matter, we decline to review allegations 2, 4, 8, and 9, as they were not 
timely raised in a complaint filed with the Board.  Complaints alleging violations of the Open 
Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the alleged violation.  G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(b).  When an alleged violation occurs during an open meeting, the alleged violation is 
reasonably discoverable at the time it occurs.  See OML 2014-85; OML 2012-52.
2  The Open 
Meeting Law allows a public body to enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten 
purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open 
session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the 
vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has 
publicly announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive 
session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2023-221; OML 2022-103; OML 2014-94.  In 
addition, before entering executive session, “the chair shall state the purpose for the executive 
session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3).  The insufficiency or omission of any 
of the executive session convening procedures that are required to take place in open session 
prior to entering executive session is, therefore, discoverable at the time of the open session 
meeting, and a complaint must be filed within thirty days thereafter to be timely.  See OML 
Declination 2-1-17 (West Bridgewater Board of Water Boarders); OML Declination 11-21-16 
(Middleton Planning Board); OML Declination 12-15-14 (Ware Conservation Board).  Because 
allegations 2, 4, 8, and 9 all concern matters that occurred, or should have occurred, in open 
session, we find that the complaint filed with the Board on January 12, 2024, concerning 
meetings that took place more than 30 days prior, is untimely as to those allegations and we 
decline to review them. 
 
Next, w
e decline to review allegations 1 and 6 because the matters raised, even if true, 
would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law.  Regarding allegation 1, the timely 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
approval of meeting minutes, the Open Meeting Law requires that a public body create and 
maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  
The Law further states that “[m]inutes of all open sessions shall be created and approved in a 
timely manner,” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c), while requiring that executive session minutes be 
“review[ed] ... at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of minutes is 
warranted.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1); see also OML 2024-158; OML 2024-29; Swansea Board of 
Selectmen v. Attorney General, Civil Action No. 2173CV00906 (Bristol Sup. Ct. December 27, 
2023).  In other words, the Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body approve 
executive session minutes in a timely manner, but rather that the executive session minutes be 
“create[d] and maintain[ed]” and “review[ed]” “at reasonable intervals” to determine whether 
continued nondisclosure is warranted.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a), (g)(1).  We review below the 
allegation that the Board failed to review executive session minutes at reasonable intervals, but 
we decline to review, as the Open Meeting Law does not require, the “timely approval” of 
executive session meeting minutes.   
 
Finally, we decline to review the redactions contained within the executive session 
minutes
 that the Board released to the public.  The Open Meeting Law provides that “[w]hen the 
purpose for which a valid executive session was held has been served, the minutes, preparatory 
materials and documents and exhibits of the session shall be disclosed unless the attorney-client 
privilege or 1 or more of the exemptions under the [Public Records Law] apply to withhold these 
records, or any portion thereof, from disclosure.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f) (emphasis added).  The 
Division of Open Government may review, under its Open Meeting Law enforcement authority, 
whether an executive session purpose remains ongoing such that minutes, or portions thereof, 
may continue to be withheld pursuant to the Open Meeting Law. However, concerns about the 
propriety of redactions made in accordance with the Public Records Law should be directed to 
the Public Records Division in the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s Office.  See OML 2021-
143; OML 2020-120 (finding that the executive session purpose had been served but noting that 
“we offer no opinion as to whether the attorney- client privilege or an exemption to the Public 
Records Law may allow the Committee to continue to redact all or portions of the minutes at 
issue”).  Here, the Board has released the minutes to the public, with limited remaining 
redactions, and the propriety of those redactions implicates compliance with the Public Records 
Law rather than the Open Meeting Law.  Therefore, we decline to review allegation 6. 
 
II. The Board Acknowledges That It Viol
 ated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to 
Review Executive Session Minutes; Failing to Vote by Roll Call During Executive 
Sessions; and Creating Insufficient Executive Session Minutes. 
 
Of the complaint’s remaining five categories of allegations, the Board has conceded four 
of the violations and committed to revise its practices to ensure ongoing compliance, and we 
therefore discuss the allegations only briefly to ensure the Board understands its obligations.  
Specifically, the Board concedes that it failed to review its executive session minutes at 
reasonable intervals to determine if continued nondisclosure was warranted; failed to vote by roll 
call while in executive session; failed to list documents and exhibits used during executive 
sessions in the minutes; and failed to maintain accurate minutes of executive sessions.   
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
First, the Open Meeting Law allows executive session meeting minutes to be withheld 
from disclosure to the public “as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the 
executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(1). When the purpose for a valid executive 
session has been served, the minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the session must be 
disclosed, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law 
applies.  Id.  Public bodies have an obligation to review the minutes of executive sessions at 
reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of minutes is warranted, and “such 
determination shall be announced at the body’s next meeting and such announcement shall be 
included in the minutes of that meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1).  Although “reasonable 
interval” is not defined by the law, our office has found a quarterly review or a review every six 
months to be appropriate.  See OML 2017-104; OML 2015-166; OML 2013-180.  A public 
body’s obligation to review executive session minutes for possible release is ongoing.  If a public 
body reviews executive session minutes and determines that the purpose for the executive 
session remains ongoing, it must continue to review those same executive session minutes at 
reasonable intervals until it determines that the reason for secrecy has expired. See OML 2019-
133.  The Board has committed to regularly reviewing its executive session minutes, and we 
reiterate the requirement to announce the outcome of all such reviews at the next open session 
meeting following each review, and to record the announcement in the minutes.   
 
Next, the Board acknowledges that the Open Meeting Law requires that “[a]ny vote taken 
at an e
xecutive session shall be recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes.”  G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(b).  We remind the Board that when a vote is taken by roll call, it also must be recorded in 
the minutes by roll call.  See OML 2019-34 (“Even unanimous votes need to be recorded in 
the minutes by roll call.”); OML 2024-174; OML 2021-128.   
 
Finally, the Board acknowledges that minutes of its executive sessions failed to include a 
list
 of documents used during the executive session and, in some instances, failed to accurately 
record what occurred during the executive sessions.  The Open Meeting Law requires that a 
public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, 
setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L c. 
30A, § 22(a) (emphasis added).  Minutes of executive sessions must include the same level of 
detail as is required of open sessions.  See OML 2022-189.  The minutes should contain enough 
detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the 
minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See OML 2021-128; OML 2016-105.  
Although a transcript of the discussions is not required, and the minutes do not need to include 
every remark or opinion presented, minutes must include a substantive summary of the 
discussion on each topic, in addition to a clear record of action taken.  See OML 2018-8; OML 
2012-29; OML 2011-55.  Regarding the required list of documents and exhibits used during the 
meeting, we have explained that a document is “used” at a meeting when, at a minimum, it is 
physically present, verbally identified, and its contents are discussed. See OML 2017-169.  We 
remind the Board of its obligations regarding meeting minutes. 
 
III. The Board Convened in Executive Session for Permissible Purposes on October 19, 
2022, March 1, 2023, and August 2, 2023. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
Finally, allegation 3 alleges that the Board convened in executive session without a 
permissible purpose on October 19, 2022, and March 1, August 2, October 4, and November 20, 
2023.  We do not herein review the October 4, 2023, and November 20, 2023, executive 
sessions, as the matters discussed in executive session on those dates—the release of liens the 
Town held on real property—were the subject of a separate complaint filed by the Complainant 
and were addressed in our determination OML 2024-142.  After review, we now find that the 
Board met in executive session for permissible purposes on October 19, 2022, and March 1 and 
August 2, 2023. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be open to the public, 
except w
hen convening in executive session.  A public body may enter executive session for any 
of ten enumerated purposes.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a).  One permissible purpose for convening 
in executive session is Purpose 3, “[t]o discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or 
litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating 
position of the public body and the chair so declares.”  Another permissible purpose for 
convening in executive session is Purpose 6, “[t]o consider the purchase, exchange, lease or 
value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the negotiating position of the public body.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6).   
 
The Boar
d posted notice for a meeting to take place on October 19, 2022.  The notice 
included an executive session “For the purposes of negotiating a purchase and sale and 
development agreement for 20 East Street.”  The Board convened in executive session on 
October 19, 2022, for the stated purpose.  During the executive session, the Board discussed 
finalizing a Purchase and Sale Agreement through which the Town would sell certain property 
located at 20 East Street to a developer with the option to buy back the property if certain project 
milestones were not satisfied.  After discussing proposed terms, the Board voted to approve the 
Purchase and Sale Agreement and a corresponding Development Agreement.  Contrary to the 
Complainant’s assertion that Adams Town Meeting had approved the agreement several months 
prior and therefore there was no longer a negotiating position to protect, the Board has explained 
that the negotiations with the developer remained ongoing until the Purchase and Sale 
Agreement was executed, which occurred after the October 19 meeting.  We are satisfied that the 
Board convened in executive session for a proper purpose on October 19 and that the discussions 
held in executive session were appropriately limited to the stated purpose.   
 
The Board convened in executive session on March 1, 2023, pursuant to executive 
session Purpose 3, to “[r]eview the Clerical Union Agreement for FY24-26.”  During the 
executive session it was reported that negotiations were completed.  Board members reviewed 
changes to the Clerical Union Agreement and asked questions regarding certain provisions.  
Thereafter, the Board convened in open session and voted to approve the Clerical Union 
Agreement.  The complaint asserts that because negotiations were completed before the meeting, 
the Board did not have a permissible purpose for convening in executive session.  We disagree, 
and are persuaded that until the Agreement was executed, Board members still had an 
opportunity to review the terms and continue negotiations if desired.  Therefore, the Board 
permissibly reviewed the final Agreement in executive session before returning to open session 
to vote to approve the Agreement.  Likewise, on August 2, 2023, the Board convened in 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
executive session to “Review the Massachusetts Coalition of Police, IUPA, AFLCIO, Local 367 
(MASSCOPS Local 367) Contract.”  Although that contract also was close to execution, it was 
not yet finalized and Board members permissibly convened in executive session to review the 
terms of the contract, before returning to open session to vote to approve the contract.  Therefore, 
we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it convened in executive 
session on October 19, 2022, March 1, 2023, and August 2, 2023. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Me
 eting Law by 
failing to review executive session minutes at reasonable intervals, failing to vote by roll call 
during executive sessions, and creating insufficient executive session meeting minutes.  We find 
that the Board did not violate the Law in the other ways alleged in the complaint.  We order the 
Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board 
that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence 
of an intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  In addition, we order the Board to review minutes 
of all executive sessions held from 2020 to present that have not yet been approved for release to 
the public, to determine if continued non-disclosure is warranted.  The review shall be completed 
within 90 days of the date of this letter, and the Board shall certify to this office that it has 
complied with this order.    
 
We now consi
der the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Catherine Foster (via email: ) 
Adams Board of Selectmen, Chair John Duval (via e-mail: jduval@town.adams.ma.us) 
Jay Green, Adams Town Administrator (via email: jgreen@town.adams.ma.us) 
 Adams Town Clerk (via e- mail: hmeczywor@town.adams.ma.us) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
