===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
B OSTON, M ASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY TEL: (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
June 25,2018 
OML 2018-91 
Katharine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Taierman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
This office received two complaints from Stephen Morgan and one complaint from 
Judith Margulies on April 19; May 14; and June 1, respectively, alleging that the Ashland 
Board of Health (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L, c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The 
complaints were originally filed with the Board on or about April 9; April 17; and April 30, 
and you responded to the complaints, on behalf of the Board, in letters dated April 18; May 4; 
and June 1. Mr. Morgan and Ms. Margulies both allege that the Board deliberated during a 
recess of its April 3 meeting.2 Additionally, Mr. Morgan alleges that the Board failed to 
create minutes of this private deliberation. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the minutes and video-recording of the Board's April 3 meeting.3 
1 All dates refer to the year 2018. 
2 In her request for remedial relief, Ms. Margulies asks that the complaint be referred to our office "for 
investigation of harassment of a female board member" and asks our office to require the Board to undergo 
"supervised mandatory harassment training." The Division of Open Government is limited to enforcing the 
Open Meeting Law. Gender-based harassment complaints should be filed with the Massachusetts Commission 
Against Discrimination. 
3 The video-recording is available at https://livestream.com/WACA-
TVAshland/events/7772013/videos/l 72736555. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum. The Board held a meeting April 3 to discuss, in part, a noise 
issue with a local bus company in Town. After the discussion became visibly heated between 
two Board members—Ms. Margulies and Jon Fetherston—the Board voted to recess the 
meeting for approximately six minutes. During this time, the Town's cable access station 
shut off its video-recording, but continued the audio-recording. Once in recess, Ms. 
Margulies turned to Chair Ronald Etskovitz and asked him how he planned to "handle Mr. 
Fetherston." Mr. Fetherson then made several statements to Ms. Margulies. Several Board 
members asked Mr. Fetherston to "calm down." Around the same time, Ms. Margulies turned 
to Board member Chris Daniele to inform him that he could obtain a copy of the sample noise 
regulations from the Massachusetts Association of Board of Health. Mr. Fetherston continued 
speaking to Ms. Margulies at which point Chair Etskovitz began discussing a notice posting 
issue with Ms. Margulies regarding her request to add an agenda item to the notice and her 
subsequent request to remove it. Ms. Margulies responded to both Mr. Fetherston's 
statements and Chair Etskovitz' concern about bringing a topic up that was specifically 
removed from the notice at her request. Chair Etskovitz then suggested that the Board re-
open the meeting. The meeting resumed and lasted for another hour. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A 
"deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the 
distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may 
be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. For the 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority of the members of the 
public body. Id. 
The complaints allege that the Board improperly deliberated during a recess of its 
April 3 meeting. The Board contends that the conversations fell into two categories that do 
not constitute "deliberation" under the Open Meeting Law: (1) topics that were not within the 
Board's jurisdiction; and (2) discussions between a sub-quorum of the Board. The Board 
members remained in their seats during the recess and participated in, or were at least in 
audible range of, the multiple conversations held during that time. Because the conversations 
were held in the meeting room, no one was asked to leave, and the Board continued to be 
recorded, the Board's actions did not appear to be an attempt to evade the public's view. See 
2 
===PAGE 3===
OML 2017-91; OML 2017-85.4 Moreover, the conversations reflect interpersonal 
disagreements among several Board members, rather than Board business. Such 
disagreements are not something that the Open Meeting Law or this Office can regulate. See 
OML 2015-20; OML 2011-38. Accordingly, we decline to find a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law. We note that, while the law does not contain any provision requiring that a 
formal statement be made to begin or reconvene a meeting, the best practice is for a public 
body to make clear to those in attendance when a meeting has officially begun or reconvened, 
and to reserve all conversation until that statement is made. See OML 2018-37. 
Mr. Morgan further alleges that the Board should have created minutes of its various 
conversations that occurred during the recess. Because we find that the Board did not 
deliberate during the recess, adding this detail to the minutes is not required. See G.L. c. 3OA, 
§ 22(a). 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. Lhis 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Stephen Morgan 
Judith Margulies 
Ashland Board of Health 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 