===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
Brian M. Maser, Esq. 
Kopelman & Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
November 6, 2014 
OML 2014-128 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Maser: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. James Mackie, dated September 17, alleging 
that the Phillipston Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
3OA, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 13, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board in a letter dated August 22. In his complaint, Mr. Mackie 
alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting (1) to decide to offer him 
the option of resigning; and (2) to decide against reinstating him to three positions he held with 
the Town of Phillipston (the Town).2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Board's response; the request 
for further review filed with our office; the minutes from Board meetings held on July 21 and 
August 4; a copy of a petition presented to the Board on July 21; and various newspaper articles 
covering events surrounding the Board's decision to not reappoint Mr. Mackie. Finally, we 
reviewed, in camera, minutes for an executive session held on June 9. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body, thus two 
members constitute a quorum. The Board meets regularly to discuss matters of Town 
governance. Mr. Mackie was a long-time public employee in the Town, serving as Highway 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
2 Mr. Mackie also alleges that the Board "has displayed a pattern of disregarding Open Meeting Laws." We note that 
our office does not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations. See OML Declination 3-
20-12 (Wilmington Board of Assessors). 
O 
===PAGE 2===
Superintendent and Tree Warden, and also working for the Fire Department. On May 28, Mr. 
Mackie took a fire truck belonging to the Town in order to rescue a kitten trapped in a tree in the 
Town of Westminster. After rescuing the kitten, the truck became stuck in a patch of wet soil, 
and Mr. Mackie called a fellow Highway Department employee to assist in the extrication of the 
truck. 
On June 9, the Board met in an executive session, with Mr. Mackie present. After Mr. 
Mackie presented his version of events, the Board discussed what actions to take concerning the 
events of May 28. Ultimately, Mr. Mackie was suspended without pay for two weeks. On June 
23, the Board held a meeting concerning the reappointment of certain Town employees to their 
paid posts. During that meeting, the Board decided that it would not reappoint Mr. Mackie to 
any of his three positions. On July 21, a petition was presented to the Board during a meeting to 
reinstate Mr. Mackie to the three positions he previously held. The minutes of this meeting 
reflect the following: "Gordon Tallman brought before the board a petition with about two 
hundred signatures. The purpose of the petition was a request for the Selectmen to reconsider 
the non-appointment of James Mackie as Highway Superintendent and Tree Warden. The Board 
thanked Tallman for exercising his rights as a citizen. A motion was made to accept the non-
binding petition for review. The motion was seconded, so voted. The signatures will need to be 
authenticated before being filed or considered." Following this meeting. Selectman Terry 
Dymek reviewed the petition and determined that, of 208 signatures, 149 were those of Town 
residents. 
The Board next met on August 4, at which time the issue of the petition was revisited. 
The minutes for that meeting reflect the following: "Gordon Tallman came before the Board to 
discuss the petition presented at the last meeting. That petition was to ask the Selectmen to 
reconsider their vote to not appoint James Mackie to the Highway, Tree Warden, and Fire Dept. 
truck driver positions. The BOS stated that even though they took the efforts of the petition 
[seriously], there were too many issues that [led] to the decision not to appoint Mackie. After 
some discussion, including a statement that the decision was not directly connected to the 
unauthorized use of Town equipment while on duty, to rescue a cat from a Westminster tree, the 
Board decided they would not be reconsidering their vote." 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Board Did Not Deliberate about the Petition for Reinstatement Outside of an 
Open Meeting 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all deliberations by public bodies occur in properly 
noticed meetings that are open and accessible to the public. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 21. Deliberation 
is defined as, "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, 
between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18. For the purpose of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is defined as a simple 
majority of the members of a public body. Id. 
We find no evidence that the Board deliberated outside of an open meeting when 
considering the petition to reinstate Mr. Mackie. Selectman Dymek's review of the petition 
2 
===PAGE 3===
signatures outside of a meeting was not a violation of the Open Meeting Law because he acted 
individually, thus there was no communication between or among a quorum of a public body. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2012-20.3 Further, the minutes of the Board's August 4 meeting 
show that, rather than occurring outside of a noticed meeting, the discussion about the petition in 
fact took place during the meeting. Mr. Mackie contends that, because the Board did not discuss 
the pros and cons of reappointing him prior to voting on the petition during this meeting, there 
must have been improper deliberation beforehand. Unanimous agreement among the Board 
members is not enough to support the inference that the Board members deliberated prior to the 
meeting.4 The Board denies outside deliberation, and, absent any evidence to the contrary, we 
accept the Board's version of the facts and find there was no improper deliberation. See OML 
2014-122; OML 2013-133. 
II. The Allegation that the Selectmen Deliberated Before Offering Mr. Mackie the 
Option to Resign is Untimely 
The Open Meeting Law requires that complaints be filed with a public body within 30 
days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged violation could not have been 
known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed with the public body within 30 
days of the date on which the alleged violation could reasonably have been discovered. 940 
CMR 29.05(3). 
Mr. Mackie alleges that Selectman Thomas Brouillet approached him on June 12, 
offering him the opportunity to resign by signing a document. The document, provided to our 
office by Mr. Mackie, states that it comes from "Hon. Thomas Brouillet and Members of the 
Board of Selectmen." As the topic of a resignation letter was not discussed in an open meeting 
prior to the date of this letter, the complaint alleges that the Board must have deliberated outside 
of a noticed meeting to decide to offer Mr. Mackie this letter.5 
Because Mr. Mackie received this document on June 12, to be timely a complaint 
concerning this allegation should have been filed no later than July 12. See G.L. c. 3OA, § 23(b). 
Because Mr. Mackie filed his complaint with the Board on August 13, we find this allegation is 
untimely and decline to review it. See OML 2013-94; OML Declination 10-18-12 (West 
Boylston Zoning Board of Appeals). 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations can be found at the Attorney General's website; 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 In support of his argument that he was wrongfully terminated, Mr. Mackie provided our office with several 
performance reviews by the Town that he contends indicate satisfaction with Mr. Mackie's job performance. Our 
role is not to examine the wisdom of the Board's decision. See OML 2013-163. 
5 As further evidence, Mr. Mackie gave our office a letter from Town Building Commissioner Geoffrey Newton in 
which Newton alleges a secret meeting involving two selectmen on the evening of June 10. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Mr. James Mackie 
Phillipston Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
4 