===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
       November 7, 2025 
 
OML 2025 –184 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Jennifer Saubermann  
Secretary, Board of Directors 
Massachusetts Technology Collaborative 
75 North Drive 
Westborough, MA 01581 
 
saubermann@masstech.org 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Saubermann:  
 
 This office received a complaint from Brian McCarter on July 16, 2025, alleging that the 
Board of Directors of the Massachusetts Technology Collaborative (the “Board”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board 
on April 1, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated May 21, following an 
extension of time granted by this office.  The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by: (1) amending the notice of the March 12 meeting to add remote access less 
than 48 hours prior to the meeting; (2) requiring interested members of the public to email the 
Board for remote access instructions: (3) failing to provide remote access instructions upon 
request; (4) denying the complainant’s request to be added to the Board’s distribution list; (5) 
posting notice that was not sufficiently specific; and (6) engaging in deliberation outside a posted 
meeting. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
posted notice of its March 12 meeting that was not sufficiently specific and when it failed to 
provide the complainant with information needed to access the meeting remotely.  We find that 
the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
the request for further review by our office, together with attachments to those filings.  We also 
reviewed the minutes of the March 12 meeting.     
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2025, unless otherwise stated.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On March 10, at 11:00 a.m. the Board posted notice of a 
meeting to take place on March 12 at 2:00 p.m.  The notice listed, among other topics, the 
following items of discussion: “Report of the Mass Tech Collaborative Chief Executive Officer,” 
“Roundup of feedback from CEO/ Board member discussions” and “Review of memo and 
discussion: NEMC Hub Sustainability.”  The original notice listed the location of the meeting as 
“Mass Tech Collaborative, 2 Center Plaza, Suite 200, Boston, MA.”  The original notice did not 
indicate whether the meeting could be accessed remotely.  On March 11, the notice was amended 
to include “Access Instructions: To receive details on how to access this virtual meeting and the 
presentations please email: msweet@masstech.org.”  On March 12, in accordance with the 
notice, the complainant sent an email to msweet@masstech.org, requesting a link for the meeting 
to be held later that day.  However, the Board did not respond to the request.   
 
 Prior to the March 12 meeting, the Chief Executive Officer of Mass Tech Collaborative 
spoke with each Board member individually.  For the most part, the CEO focused on eliciting 
feedback about how Board meetings are run.  Members also were asked what excited them most 
about the work of Mass Tech Collaborative.  The CEO did not share the content of each of these 
conversations with other members outside of a meeting.  The March 12 meeting was held as 
scheduled.  During the meeting, the CEO reported to the full Board about the feedback she 
received from Board members during their one-on-one conversations. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board did not violate the Law when it amended notice of the March 12 meeting 
less than 48 hours prior to the meeting to include instructions for remote access. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the  
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of  
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement  
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except  
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”).  
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present as well as to 
see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2020-100; 
OML 2018-75; OML 2016-54.2  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 
hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  
 
The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Law when it provided instructions for 
remote access less than 48 hours prior to the meeting.  When all public body members participate 
in a meeting remotely or when a public body meets in person without providing the public 
physical access to the meeting location, the public body must then provide the public with 
adequate, alternative access to the meeting, which requires access to the proceedings in real time.  
See OML 2020-111; OML 2020-100; G.L. c. 20, § 20(b).  A public body may hold in-person 
meetings without alternative remote access as long as the public has the opportunity to be 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
physically present at the meeting, and to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of 
the public body.  See OML 2021-148; OML 2020-100; OML 2016-54.   
 
The notice of the March 12 meeting, as originally posted 48 hours prior to the meeting, 
included only a physical location for the meeting.  The Open Meeting Law did not require that 
the Board provide an alternative means to access the meeting.  That it eventually chose to 
provide alternative access did not create an obligation to provide the remote access information 
48 hours prior to the meeting.  Therefore, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by amending the meeting notice and adding a remote access option less than 48 
hours prior to the meeting.  Additionally, the Board did not violate the Law when it required that 
the complainant email it to receive the remote access instructions.  See OML 2020-163 (“A 
public body may require members of the public to call to obtain access information for the 
meeting, rather than including such information on the meeting notice.”); OML 2019-102 
(same).  
 
II. The Board violated the Law when it posted notice of a hybrid meeting but failed to 
provide remote access to the complainant. 
 
   The complainant alleges that he attempted to make use of the remote option offered in 
the amended notice.  In its response, the Board acknowledges that it did not provide the 
requested access.  Nonetheless, the Board argues that it did not violate the Law because, 
although regrettable, failure to provide the link could not constitute a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law when the Law does not require hybrid meetings, i.e, meetings that are held both in 
person and remotely.  We have consistently stated that a public body is not required to provide 
remote access to its meetings, so long as the meetings are held in-person at a location that is open 
and physically accessible to the public.  See OML 2023-225; OML 2022-158; OML 2021-79.  
Only when all public body members participate in a meeting remotely or when a public body 
meets in person without providing the public physical access to the meeting location must a 
public body provide the public with adequate, alternative access to the meeting.  See OML 2025-
68; 2020-111; OML 2020-100; Chapter 20, § 20(b).    
 
Nonetheless, once it advertised and offered a remote access option to the public via the 
amended meeting notice, the Board had an obligation to follow through.  In some situations, we 
have not found a violation of the Open Meeting Law when a public body intended and attempted 
to provide remote access to a meeting in addition to in-person access, and experienced technical 
disruptions that interfered with the ability to provide clear and consistent remote access.  See 
OML 2023-146; OML 2023-127; OML 2023-52.3  However, the instant case does not involve a 
disruption due to imperfect technology. It involves failure on the part of the Board to provide a 
link for remote access after a member of the public followed the precise instructions to obtain the 
link set forth in the notice.  When a public body requires members of the public to request 
remote access information, “the meeting notice must include clear contact information, and 
members of the public must be able to obtain the meeting access information up to and 
 
3 We have not determined whether a public body would be in violation of the Open Meeting Law if it were to 
proceed with a meeting that was posted as a hybrid meeting but not accessible remotely at all  due to technical 
difficulties.  See OML 2025-68.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
throughout the duration of the meeting.”  See OML 2020-163; OML 2020-102.   
 
We have stated that where the notice provides for a hybrid meeting, the notice must 
provide sufficient notice of the physical location.  See OML 2022-120 (“Although the Board was 
not required to provide both in-person and remote access to its [meeting], because the meeting 
notice did identify an in-person option, the notice needed to provide enough detail to reasonably 
inform the public of the physical location of the meeting.”); OML 2022-106 (same).  Similarly, 
where a notice provides for both in-person and remote access, the latter must be a genuine option 
for the public.  See, e.g., 2021-147 (noting that a public body that “uses a Zoom waiting room in 
order to manually admit members of the public to the meeting, . . . must ensure that attendees are 
promptly admitted to the meeting at the start of and throughout the duration of the meeting.”). 
 
If a notice promises remote access, members of the public who otherwise would appear 
in person may instead decide to attend remotely.  Inclusion of a remote option on the notice 
creates an expectation on the part of the public that they will be provided with remote access.  
Where the Board offered a remote access link but failed to provide it after the complainant 
requested it pursuant to instructions on the notice, it violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
III. The Board did not deliberate outside a posted meeting. 
 
As noted above, all meetings of a public body, except those called in executive session, 
must be open to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  Subject to exceptions not relevant here, a 
meeting is defined as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body’s jurisdiction.”   G.L. c. 30A, §18.  Also subject to exceptions not relevant here, 
deliberation, in turn, is defined as “an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business 
within its jurisdiction.”  Id.   
 
The Open Meeting Law generally does not prohibit a non-member from communicating 
individually with each member of a public body regarding the same matter outside of a meeting.  
See OML 2025-36.  However, a non-member may not poll the body outside of a meeting and 
then report the results of that poll outside a meeting to one of the body members.  See OML 
2013-186 (finding a violation where the board chair directed the town administrator to poll 
members whether town hall should be closed due to inclement weather, the town administrator 
polled members and reported the poll results to a board member, all outside a meeting); OML 
2023-224 (finding a violation where the board chair directed the clerk to poll members about 
revision to a subdivision plan, the clerk polled members and reported the results to the chair, and 
the chair discussed the plan with the developer, all outside a meeting).   
 
The CEO of Mass Tech Collaborative is not a member of the Board.  The content of her 
individual calls with each member did not reach a quorum of the Board.  She did not report the 
results of her conversations to any Board member but rather waited until a noticed meeting to 
share the results of her discussions.  Because at no time did any of the communications reach a 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
quorum of the Board outside a meeting, the CEO’s calls to members did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.4   
 
IV. Notice of the March 12 meeting was not sufficiently specific. 
 
Notice of a meeting must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The list of topics must have sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b).   We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member 
of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s 
discussion.  See OML 2023-3; OML 2019-134; OML 2015- 35.  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an 
informed decision whether to attend the meeting in order to observe the discussion regarding a 
topic of interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22.  Generic notice topics do 
not satisfy the requirement of specificity.  See OML 2022-179.   
 
In his complaint, Mr. McCarter alleges that notice of the March 12 meeting was not 
sufficiently specific.  Without pointing to any specific topic, the complaint alleges that the notice 
was “overly vague, failing to reflect the detailed financial, operational, and strategic nature of 
discussions and decisions actually held.”  In his request for review, the complainant identifies 
three topics which he alleges are not sufficiently specific: “Report of the Mass Tech 
Collaborative Chief Executive Officer,” “Roundup of feedback from CEO/ Board member 
discussions” and “Review of memo and discussion: NEMC Hub Sustainability.” 
 
We decline to review the sufficiency of the first two of these topics.  Minutes of the 
March 12 meeting reflect that a quorum was not reached until the CEO concluded her 
presentation to the Board.  Because a quorum was not present during the CEO’s presentation, 
there was no deliberation on that topic, and therefore the Open Meeting Law did not require that 
the CEO’s report or her roundup of feedback be listed on the notice at all.  When a quorum is not 
present, there is no deliberation requiring compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  See G.L. c. 
30A, § 18; OML 2024-254; OML 2017-155; 2015-125.5   
 
We find, however, that notice of the topic “Review of memo and discussion: NEMC Hub 
Sustainability” was not sufficiently specific.  Where the notice of a meeting includes an acronym 
that is not widely understood by the public, we have found it insufficiently specific.  See, e.g., 
 
4 We acknowledge that this case presents a closer question than our determination OML 2022- 192, cited by the 
complainant.  In that case, the Superintendent of the Lynnfield School Committee contacted committee members 
individually to provide an update on COVID vaccination rates.  Unlike the Mass Tech CEO, the Lynnfield School 
Superintendent did not elicit any opinion from members.  Nonetheless, where the Mass Tech CEO did not report on 
her conversations until the meeting, we find no violation. 
5 Additionally, we note that when reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its 
face, we do not review a meeting notice standing alone.  Rather, we review what was actually discussed at the 
meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently detailed to make the public aware of the discussion topics.   See 
OML 2025-158; OML 2024-155; OML 2023-61.  Here, the CEO’s presentation fell entirely within the “Roundup of 
feedback from CEO/ Board member discussions.”  Where there was no separate discussion that fell within the topic 
“Report of the Mass Tech Collaborative Chief Executive Officer,” notice of that topic cannot be found to be 
insufficient. 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
OML 2025-153 (topic referencing “B.E.S.S.” insufficiently specific); 2020-137 (topic 
referencing “PEC” insufficiently specific); OML 2016-5 (topic referencing “PILOT” 
insufficiently specific).  A reasonable member of the public could not read the topic “Review of 
memo and discussion: NEMC Hub Sustainability” and understand the anticipated nature of the 
public body’s discussion.  Therefore, the notice of the March 12 meeting was not sufficiently 
specific and therefore did not meet the requirements of the Open Meeting Law.  
 
V. We decline to review the remaining allegations of the complaint. 
 
The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law.  We decline to review the allegation that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
denied the complainant’s request to be added to the Board’s distribution list.  As there is nothing 
within the Open Meeting Law that would require that the Board accept a request to be added to a 
distribution list, we decline to review this allegation.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it posted notice of the March 12 meeting that was not sufficiently specific, and when it 
failed to provide the complainant with information needed to access the meeting remotely.  We 
order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law’s requirements 
and caution that future similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Brian McCarter (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
  

===PAGE 7===
7 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 