===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 13, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 147 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Amy Lindquist 
Assistant City Solicitor for School and Labor 
City of Melrose 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Lindquist: 
This office received a complaint from Gerry Mroz on April 27, 2020,1 alleging that   
the Ad Hoc Selection Committee on the Membership of the Superintendent Search Screening 
Committee (the “Selection Committee”), a subcommittee of the Melrose School Committee (the 
“School Committee”), violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Mr. Mroz’s 
complaint was originally filed with the School Committee on or about February 26, and you 
responded on behalf of the School Committee by letter dated March 17. The complaint alleges 
that Selection Committee 1) improperly met in executive session on January 27; 2) failed to vote 
by roll call to enter into executive session; and 3) after voting to move into executive session, 
relocated to a different room.     
 
We find that the Selection Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by improperly 
narrowing a candidate pool to a single candidate per position in executive session, failing to 
record a roll call vote in its January 27 meeting minutes, and creating insufficiently detailed 
minutes for the January 27 executive session.2 We find that the Selection Committee did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law in the other way alleged. In reaching this determination, we 
 
1 All dates in this determination are in 2020, unless otherwise stated.  
2 The complaint originally filed with the School Committee appears to allege only that the executive session was 
improper because the Selection Committee chair did not have a reasonable basis for stating that holding the meeting 
in open session would have a detrimental effect in obtaining qualified candidates. In his request for further review, 
the Complainant clarifies that he also believes the January 27 executive session was improper because the Selection 
Committee narrowed the pool of candidates to one per position.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response, the request for further 
review, the minutes of the Selection Committee’s January 27 open and executive sessions, the 
minutes of the School Committee’s January 7, 16, and 28 meetings, and additional materials 
submitted to our office. We also communicated with Counsel for the School Committee3 and the 
Complainant by email.  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. The School Committee is a seven-member public body; 
thus, four members constitute a quorum. The Selection Committee was a three-member public 
body, all of whom were also members of the School Committee.   
 
   At its January 16 meeting, the School Committee voted to approve a memorandum  
entitled “Superintendent Search - Screening Committee Composition” which set out, among 
other things, the exact composition the School Committee sought for the Superintendent Search 
Screening Committee (“Search Committee”). The memorandum provided that the Search 
Committee should consist of the following:  
 
2 School Committee members (in addition to Screening Committee Chair Driscoll) 
1 District Administrator 
2 District Teachers (ideally, one elementary teacher and one secondary school 
teacher) 
1 District Principal 
1 Staff Member (from a bargaining group/unit/category other than those identified 
above) 
3 Parents (ideally, one from each of the following school levels: Pre-K/Elementary; 
Middle School; High School) 
2 Community Representatives 
1 Expert in the Field of Education 
 
The School Committee voted to approve the memorandum, with the addition of a third 
teacher added to the composition. Additionally, Mr. O’Connell stated that the Selection 
Committee would meet on January 27 to select candidates to the Search Committee for 
consideration by the School Committee at its January 28 meeting. 
 
The Selection Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on January 27. The 
notice included one substantive topic, to convene in executive session “[t]o conduct a 
preliminary screening of applicants to be recommended to the Melrose School Committee for 
appointment to the Melrose School Committee Superintendent Search Screening Committee as 
having an open meeting will have a detrimental effect in obtaining qualified candidates.” On 
January 27, the Selection Committee convened in open session in the Council Chambers on the 
first floor of Melrose City Hall, as listed on the meeting notice. After the Chair announced the 
purpose for the executive session and stated that the meeting would not reconvene in open 
session, the Selection Committee voted to enter into executive session. The open session minutes 
for the January 27 meeting state that the Selection Committee voted by roll call to enter into 
 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
executive session, but the minutes do not record the results of the roll call vote. The Selection 
Committee then moved to the Chamber conference room immediately adjacent to the Council 
Chambers.  
 
The executive session minutes have not been released to the public yet; therefore, we 
only summarize their content here. During its January 27 executive session, the Selection 
Committee reviewed guidance provided by the School Committee, including the composition of 
the Search Committee. The Selection Committee then reviewed the statements of interest it had 
received from applicants and reached consensus with respect to which candidate the Selection 
Committee would recommend for each position. The Selection Committee then discussed 
whether to recommend to the School Committee that two additional positions be added to the 
Search Committee and agreed that it should make such a recommendation and that two particular 
individuals should be recommended to fill the additional positions. Finally, the Selection 
Committee voted to instruct Mr. O’Connell to draft a memorandum to the School Committee 
recommending that the School Committee add two additional positions to the Search Committee, 
bringing the total number of positions to sixteen, and recommending a particular candidate for 
each of the sixteen positions.  
 
The Selection Committee presented the memorandum and its recommendations to the 
School Committee during the School Committee’s January 28 meeting. The memorandum 
explained that the Selection Committee had received seventy statements of interest, outlined the 
number of candidates the Selection Committee reviewed for each position, and recommended 
one specific candidate per position, including the two additional positions the Selection 
Committee recommended adding to the Search Committee. At the January 28 meeting, the 
School Committee voted to approve the Selection Committee’s recommendations as presented, 
with the addition of a third School Committee member as chair of the Search Committee. Both 
the Selection Committee and the Search Committee have disbanded as their work is complete.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Committee Failed to Record in its Minutes a Roll Call Vote Before Entering 
Executive Session.  
The Open Meeting Law permits a public body to enter executive session provided that it 
has first convened in open session, that a majority of the members of the body have voted to go 
into executive session, and that “the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into 
the minutes.” See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b); OML 2014-94.4 A roll call vote is “the act or an instance 
of calling off a list of names.” Webster's Third New International Dictionary of the English 
Language, 683 (unabridged ed. 1961). The Open Meeting Law expressly requires not only that a 
roll call vote be conducted before entering executive session, but also that the roll call vote be 
“entered into the minutes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(2). These requirements are intended to create a 
clear record of what occurred and to reflect the significance of holding a discussion behind 
closed doors. See OML 2015-131; OML 2014-94; OML 2012-10.  
 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
The complaint alleges that the Selection Committee failed to take a roll call vote before 
entering into executive session. The School Committee asserted that the Selection Committee did 
take a roll call vote before entering into executive session. In his request for further review, the 
Complainant explained that he was in attendance during the open portion of the January 27 
meeting and that the Selection Committee did not take a roll call vote. In subsequent 
communications regarding this issue, the School Committee pointed to the minutes of the open 
portion of the Selection Committee’s January 27 meeting as evidence that a roll call vote was 
taken. Those minutes state, in relevant part, “Mr. Obremski moved for adjournment to Executive 
Session and Ms. DeSelm seconded the motion. The roll was called an[d] all members present 
voted in favor of the motion to adjourn to Executive Session.”    
 
Where the parties present contradictory accounts regarding whether the Selection 
Committee voted by roll call to enter executive session, and we find no clear independent 
evidence as to how the vote was conducted, we are unable to conclude that the Selection 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to vote by roll call to enter into executive 
session. Regardless of whether a roll call vote was indeed taken on the motion to enter executive 
session, it is clear that the Selection Committee’s meeting minutes failed to record the roll call 
vote as is required by the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(2). 
 
II. The Selection Committee Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law When It Moved to  
a Different Meeting Location to Hold Its Executive Session After Conducting 
Procedural Steps in Open Session. 
The complaint alleges that, after conducting the procedural steps for entering into 
executive session at the location listed on the meeting notice, the Selection Committee relocated 
to another room to hold the executive session. The Selection Committee does not deny this and 
explains that it relocated to a room adjacent to the original meeting location to allow another 
public meeting to convene in the Council Chambers. Although all executive sessions must be 
preceded by an open session that is open and accessible to the public, there is no requirement that 
the executive session itself, which is closed to the public, also be held in an accessible location. 
Therefore, the Selection Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by holding its 
executive session in a different location than that which was included on the meeting notice. 
Compare OML 2015-13 (finding no violation where the public body performed convening 
procedures for entering into executive session in an accessible location and thereafter moved to 
an inaccessible location to hold the executive session) with OML 2018-95 (finding a violation 
were a public body performed the convening procedures for entering into executive session at a 
location other than that listed on the Meeting notice, stating that “[t]he public has a right to 
witness these procedural steps in order to observe the vote and learn the purpose for the 
executive session . . . [and where a] meeting notice inaccurately identified the location where 
those procedural steps would take place, members of the public were denied this right.”).  
 
III. The Selection Committee Improperly Met in Executive Session to Reduce the 
Number of Candidates to a Single Finalist for Each Position.  
A public body may enter executive session for any one or more of ten enumerated 
purposes. One enumerated purpose for entering into executive session is to “consider or 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
interview applicants for employment or appointment by a preliminary screening committee if the 
chair declares that an open meeting will have a detrimental effect in obtaining qualified 
applicants; provided, however, that this clause shall not apply to any meeting, including meetings 
of a preliminary screening committee, to consider and interview applicants who have passed a 
prior preliminary screening.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(8) (“Purpose 8”). The Law defines 
“Preliminary Screening” as “the initial stage of screening applicants conducted by a committee 
or subcommittee of a public body solely for the purpose of providing to the public body a list of 
those applicants qualified for further consideration or interview.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The 
preliminary screening process may consist of several steps, such as consideration of written 
applications or resumes, selection of some for further consideration, and interviews for the 
purpose of narrowing the field of candidates to two or more finalists. See Gerstein v. 
Superintendent Search Screening Committee, 405 Mass. 465, 471-73 (1989); Commonwealth v. 
Board of Selectmen of the Town of Westborough, 2006 WL 3292678 (Mass. Super. 2006). 
 
The complaint alleges that the Selection Committee improperly met in executive session 
because reviewing candidates for the Search Committee in open session would not have had a 
detrimental effect in obtaining qualified candidates. Specifically, the complaint states that “[t]he 
selection of the members of [the Search Committee] certainly would not have been impeded by 
holding the meeting in full view of the public. No one being appointed to this committee would 
risk significant jeopardy in their current employment positions by applying to serve on such a 
temporary committee.” In response, the School Committee explains that  
 
[t]he applicants for the [Search Committee] are private citizens who were providing 
personal information to the Ad Hoc Committee regarding [their] qualifications to 
service on the [Search Committee] . This information was being discussed an d 
debated by the [Selection Committee ]. In order to attract the largest amount of 
applicants to get a diverse and representative group of the Melrose Community it 
was important that this process be conducted in Executive Session. The [Selection 
Committee] was concerned that if this process was conducted in Open Session 
applicants would be less likely to apply, leading to a smaller pool of qualified 
individuals.       
 
The public body bears the burden of demonstrating applicability of the relevant executive session 
purpose. See District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. School Comm, of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 566 
(2009); OML 2018-49. In this case, that includes showing that there was a reasonable basis for 
the Chair to believe that an open meeting would have had a detrimental effect in obtaining 
qualified applicants. We credit the School Committee’s explanation and find that it has met this 
burden with respect to the declaration that reviewing applicants in open session would have had 
a detrimental effect in obtaining qualified applicants. Although Purpose 8 is commonly invoked 
in the employment context where an applicant for employment may be concerned about 
jeopardizing their current employment if the fact of their application becomes public at an early 
stage, Purpose 8 is not restricted to the employment context. The selection of applicants for 
appointment to a superintendent search committee necessarily required a frank discussion of 
applicants’ qualifications, and we are persuaded by the Committee’s explanation that holding 
such a discussion in open session would discourage applicants from applying, even if it wouldn’t 
jeopardize their current employment. Furthermore, although an express notification to potential 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
applicants that the preliminary review of applicants will be conducted in executive session, such 
that applicants apply with an expectation of privacy in the early stages of review, may lend 
support to the belief that an open meeting would have a detrimental effect in obtaining qualified 
candidates, we have never found such a notification to be required. See OML 2013-33. 
 
Although we find that the School Committee has shown a reasonable basis for the belief 
that an open meeting would have had a detrimental effect in obtaining qualified applicants,  we 
find that the Selection Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by entering into executive 
session for an improper purpose when it reviewed applicants for appointment to the Search 
Committee and narrowed the field of applicants to one per position. The Open Meeting Law 
requires a preliminary screening committee, such as the Selection Committee, that enters into 
executive session under Purpose 8 to narrow the field to two or more candidates for 
consideration by the parent public body. See Commonwealth v. Board of Selectmen of the Town 
of Westborough, 2006 WL 3292678 (Mass. Super. 2006); OML 2016-105; OML 2013-155. 
Here, the Selection Committee, in executive session, conducted its review of candidates and 
voted to forward a slate of candidates to the School Committee which included only one 
candidate per position on the Search Committee. The Open Meeting Law allows a preliminary 
screening committee to enter into executive session only for the purpose of selecting multiple 
finalists to forward to the parent body, not to make the ultimate selection. This requirement 
serves an important function for public transparency; without it, a preliminary screening 
committee is essentially free to make final hiring or appointment decisions behind closed doors, 
subject only to an up or down vote by the parent public body. Indeed, that is precisely what 
occurred here, and we therefore find that the Selection Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law by entering into executive session for an improper purpose on January 27.  
 
Finally, although not raised in the complaint because the executive session minutes have 
not yet been released to the public or the Complainant, we find that the Selection Committee’s 
January 27 executive session minutes are insufficiently detailed. The Open Meeting Law 
requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a 
member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear 
understanding of what occurred. See OML 2016-105. Although a transcript of the discussions is 
not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented, minutes 
must include a substantive summary of the discussion on each topic. See OML 2020-57; OML 
2018-8; OML 2012-29. The Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes include more than 
a statement that a public body held a discussion about a specified topic; the Law requires that the 
minutes summarize the discussion that was held. See OML 2020-57; OML 2019-167.  
 
Based on our in camera review of the minutes of the January 27 executive session, we 
find that the minutes are inadequate to meet the standard required by the Open Meeting Law 
because they do not offer a sufficiently detailed summary of the Selection Committee’s 
discussions, and instead simply state the steps the Selection Committee took— reviewed 
guidance provided by the School Committee, including the composition of the Search 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
Committee; reviewed statements of interest; reached consensus; and voted to recommend a slate 
of candidates and additional positions to the School Committee. Because the Selection 
Committee has disbanded, and because it was comprised solely of School Committee members, 
we order the School Committee to amend the January 27 executive session meeting minutes in 
accordance with the requirements of G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
 
IV. We Do Not Find That the Selection Committee Intentionally Violated the Open 
Meeting Law. 
The Complainant alleges that that Selection Committee intentionally violated the Law 
because 1) before the Selection Committee entered into executive session, the Complainant told 
the Selection Committee that he believed they were entering executive session for an improper 
purpose; and 2) another subcommittee of the School Committee “was recently found in violation 
of the Open Meeting Law by the Attorney General’s Office . . ..” The Complainant did not 
identify the recent determination or the violation allegedly found by our office.  
 
A prior finding of a similar violation may be evidence of an intent to violate the Law. 940 
CMR 29.02. In the past five years, our office has issued three determinations involving the 
School Committee. See OML 2015-118 (finding the School Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to identify the litigation matter to be discussed in executive session); 
OML 2017-36 (finding that a task force created by the School Committee was a public body 
subject to the Open Meeting Law and that the task force and its subcommittees had violated the 
Law by failing to post meeting notices); and OML 2019-127 (finding that the School Committee 
violated the Law by failing to announce the purpose for an executive session). Although two of 
the three determinations found violations related to executive session, neither found violations 
similar to the violation found here. Therefore, we do not find our previous determinations 
involving the School Committee to be evidence of an intent to violate the Law. Similarly, we do 
not find the fact that the Selection Committee decided to convene in executive session despite 
the Complainant’s warning that he believed the Selection Committee was doing so improperly to 
be evidence of an intent to violate the Law. Therefore, we do not find that the Selection 
Committee intentionally violated the Open Meeting Law when it improperly met in executive 
session to narrow the field of applicants to one per position. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Selection Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by improperly meeting in executive session on January 27 to narrow the candidate 
pool for appointment to the Search Committee to a single candidate per position, failing to record 
a roll call vote in its January 27 meeting minutes, and creating insufficiently detailed minutes for 
the January 27 executive session. We find that the Selection Committee did not violate the Law 
in the other way alleged. Because the Selection Committee has now disbanded, and because it 
consisted entirely of School Committee members, we order the School Committee’s immediate 
and future compliance with the Law’s requirements and note that future similar violations may 
be considered evidence of an intent to violate the law. Additionally, we order the School 
Committee, within 60 days of receipt of this letter, to amend the Selection Committee’s January 
27 executive session minutes, release those minutes to the public, and to notify our office that it 
===PAGE 8===
8 
 
has done so. Because the January 27 discussions were not appropriate for executive session, the 
School Committee may not withhold or redact any portion of the minutes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(f). However, the School Committee may continue to withhold materials used in its review of 
applicants for appointment to the Search Committee during the January 27 executive session in 
accordance with General Laws chapter 30A, section 22(e)(2).   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the School Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Ed O’Connell, Chair of the Melrose School Committee (via e-mail: 
 
 Gerry Mroz (via e-mail:  
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
