===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 18, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 194 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Karen Raus 
Chair, Westport Finance Committee  
karenraus@gmail.com 
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Raus: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on April 12, 2024,
1 alleging that 
the Westport Finance Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on April 9, and you 
responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated April 11. The complaint alleges that the 
notice for the Committee’s March 12 meeting included an insufficiently specific topic. 
 
Following our review, we find that the notice for the Committee’s March 12 meeting was 
insufficient where it did not specify that the Committee would discuss the school budget or the 
addition of a town engineer. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Committee’s response, the request for further review, and the notice for the 
Committee’s March 12 meeting. We also reviewed original and amended minutes of the March 
12 meeting and minutes of the Committee’s March 5 meeting. 
 
FACTS  
 
The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on March 12. Among the topics 
included on the notice were the following: “Department Budget Meetings” and “Discussion: 
Fiscal25 budget; 5-year operating/capital plan; Warrant articles.” During the meeting, when the 
Committee reached the notice topic “Discussion: Fiscal25 budget; 5-year operating/capital plan; 
Warrant articles,” the Committee discussed the school department’s budget with the chair of the 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Select Board, the Town Administrator, the chair of the School Committee, and the 
Superintendent of Schools. The Committee also discussed with the Town Administrator the need 
for a town engineer. In the portion of the minutes capturing these discussions, the minutes clarify 
that during the Committee’s March 5 meeting, Committee members had requested to speak with 
the Select Board specifically regarding the school budget and the addition of a town engineer.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, no
 tice be posted 
for every meeting 48 hours in advance of the meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and 
legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Meeting notices must list the topics reasonably 
anticipated for discussion at the meeting, id., and such topics must include “sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 
940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We have explained that where a public body will review all 
articles for a Town Meeting warrant or the entire budget, it is not required to identify all 
warrant articles or all budgetary items on its meeting notice. See OML 2017-185; OML 
2012-83.2 However, where a public body anticipates discussing specific Town Meeting 
warrant articles or budgetary items, it must specifically list those articles or items on the 
meeting notice. See OML 2013-8; OML 2011-7; OML 2024-27 (finding that the finance 
committee posted insufficient notice and explaining that where “heads of Town 
departments attended certain meetings to present on their budgets; it is unlikely that this 
was unplanned and unanticipated,” and further explaining that “over time as the 
Committee voted to approve or support budgets and warrant articles it is less and less 
likely that the Committee anticipated discussing” the warrant or budget as a whole).  
 
The complaint alleges that the
  notice topic “Department Budget Meetings” was 
insufficient where it did not specify that the Committee would meet with the School Committee 
to discuss the school budget nor specify that the Committee would discuss the addition of a town 
engineer. In its response, the Committee asserts that it held no discussion under the topic 
“Department Budget Meetings,” but rather discussed the Select Board’s school budget and the 
addition of a town engineer under the notice topic “Discussion: Fiscal25 budget; 5-year 
operating/capital plan; Warrant articles.” We do not review the complaint or the meeting notice 
so narrowly; rather, we review whether the topics listed on the meeting notice, taken together, 
provided sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed. See 
OML 2014-102; see also OML 2024-122. We find that neither of the notice topics sufficiently 
advised the public that the Committee would discuss the school budget or the addition of a town 
engineer. Therefore, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an 
insufficient notice for its March 12 meeting.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by posting an insufficiently specific notice for its March 12 meeting. We order the Committee’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Committee that a 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of an 
intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.    
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Westport Finance Committee (via email: fincom@westport-ma.gov)  
Kristin Stinson, Town Clerk (via email: clerk@westport-ma.gov) 
Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
