===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 1, 2016 
OML 2016-148 
Gregg Corbo, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street, 12th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received a complaint from Jeanne Golrick on May 4, alleging that the 
Montague Zoning Board of Appeals (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 10, and 
Board Chair Ernest Brown responded by letter dated March 30. In her complaint, Ms. 
Golrick alleges that the Board failed to post notice of its March 9 meeting at least 48 hours 
in advance. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. We also find that the Board violated the law by failing to approve meeting 
minutes in a timely manner. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the Board's response, and the request for review filed with our office. 
Additionally, we reviewed the notices and minutes of the March 9 and April 13 Board 
meetings. Finally, we spoke with Chair Brown by telephone on August 30.2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board held a meeting on Wednesday, March 9 at 
7 P.M. On March 7, the Board's Clerk, who is a Town employee, prepared the notice for 
this meeting, but was not able to submit the notice to the Town Clerk for posting before the 
Town Clerk left for the day. The next day, on March 8, the Board Clerk was out of the 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 David Jensen, Inspector of Buildings, and Karen Casey-Chretien, Board Clerk, also participated on the call. 
These individuals are not Board members. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
o 
===PAGE 2===
office and asked the Building Inspector, who is not a member of the Board, to file the 
notice with the Town Clerk. The Building Inspector complied and, according to the date 
stamp on the notice, the Town Clerk posted it at approximately 4 P.M. At the start of the 
meeting on March 9, the complainant informed the Board that the meeting notice had not 
been posted at least 48 hours in advance of the meeting, as required by the Open Meeting 
Law. She invited the Board to walk down the hall to the notice posting location to confirm 
the error, but the Board declined. The Board went forward with the meeting and held two 
hearings on special permits. The Building Inspector was present for the meeting, although 
the Board Clerk was not. According to Chair Brown, it was only after the meeting that he 
was able to confirm that the notice had not been timely posted. 
As a result of this complaint, the Board took remedial action during its April 13 
meeting. It posted a topic on its meeting notice as follows: "Correction to Open Meeting 
Law requirements for the timely posting of Board of Appeals meeting of March 9, 2016" 
followed by "review for the record and re-vote" of the two special permits approved during 
the March 9 meeting. The Board discussed the complaint and the possible implications of 
the notice posting deficiency under the Zoning Act, The Board then re-opened the 
hearings, further discussed the applications and re-voted to approve the special permits. 
On July 18, the Board provided our office with draft minutes of the Board's March 9 and 
April 13 meetings. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, "[e]xcept in an emergency.. .a public body 
shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must be 
"printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time and 
place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." Id, 
The Board posted notice of its March 9 meeting approximately twenty-seven hours 
earlier, on March 8 at about 4 P.M. The Board proceeded with the meeting despite having 
received a clear warning at the start of the meeting that the meeting had not been properly 
noticed. Upon receiving this warning, the Board made no effort to investigate whether the 
notice was properly posted before proceeding with the meeting, even though the meeting 
was located in the Town Hall where the notice had been posted. Accordingly, we find that 
the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post notice of this meeting at least 
48 hours in advance. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
In prior determinations involving similar circumstances, we have found that a 
public body intentionally violated the Open Meeting Law by proceeding with a meeting 
after it received a clear warning prior to, and during, the meeting about deficiencies in the 
notice posting. See OML 2016-69; OML 2014-41.3 In this instance, the Board should 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
2 
===PAGE 3===
have taken reasonable steps to investigate whether its notice had been properly posted. 
However, this is the first time our office has found that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law. Moreover, upon confirming that the notice had indeed been posted late after 
the meeting had ended, the Board took appropriate remedial action in response to the 
complaint by reviewing and re-voting on the two special permits that were approved 
during the March 9 meeting. Accordingly, we decline to find an intentional violation. 
However, we emphasize that the Board should investigate any reasonable suggestions that 
its notice may not have been properly noticed before proceeding with a meeting, if at all 
possible, as it was here. A future violation of this nature may be considered an intentional 
violation of the law. 
Although not alleged in the complaint, we find that the Board also violated the 
Open Meeting Law by failing to timely create and approve meeting minutes. Public bodies 
have an obligation to "create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings." G.I,, c. 30A, 
§ 22(a). These meeting minutes must be reviewed and approved in a timely manner. G.L. 
c. 3 OA, § 22(c). The Open Meeting Law does not define "timely manner," however, we 
have determined that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting, whenever 
possible. See OML 2014-15; OML 2012-91. For bodies that meet regularly, we have 
concluded that a delay of two to three months in approving minutes does not comply with 
the law. See OML 2016-62. In this case, our office did not receive draft minutes from its 
March 9 and April 13 meetings until July 18, over three to four months after the meetings 
took place. Accordingly, we find that the Board violated the law by failing to timely 
approve minutes of the March 9 and April 13 meetings. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post notice of its 
March 9 meeting at least 48 hours in advance and by failing to approve minutes in a timely 
manner. We order immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we 
caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
law. Additionally, we order the Board members to review the Attorney General's Open 
Meeting Law Training Video #2 (Meeting Notices) and to certify to our office within thirty 
(30) days of this letter, using the attached form, that it has complied with this order.4 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
^ The videos may be found at the Attorney General's website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Jeanne Golrick 
Montague Zoning Board of Appeals 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of 
receipt of a final order. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
Certification of Compliance with Order 
I, , hereby certify that I have read the Attorney General's 
(print name) 
determination number OML 2016-148 and, pursuant to the order therein, reviewed the 
Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Training Video #2 on _ 
(date) 
Board Member Signature Date 
5 