===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA IIEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 23,2018 
OML 2018-57 
Harold W. Ramsey 
Chair, Warren Planning Board 
48 High Street 
P.O. Box 609 
Warren, MA 01803 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Mr. Ramsey: 
This office received two complaints from Michael Baril on December 28 alleging that the 
Warren Planning Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 
The complaints were originally filed with the Board on October 31; and you responded, on 
behalf of the Board, by letter dated November 13. The first complaint alleges that the Board's 
September 18 meeting was not accessible to the public. The second complaint alleges that the 
Board posted insufficiently detailed notices for its September 18 and October 2 meetings; and 
that the Board restricted Mr. Baril's right to video record the October 2 meeting.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by placing 
an unreasonable restriction on the complainant's right to video record the October 2 meeting. 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board's response to the 
complaints, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed 
the notices of, and open session minutes from, the Board's September 18 and October 2 
meetings; as well as video recordings of those meetings.3 Finally, we spoke with the 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 The Division of Open Government is charged specifically with reviewing complaints to determine compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c, 30A, §§ 18-25. thus we decline to review, and offer no opinion on, any 
allegations of physical assault or dishonesty by public officials raised in Mi-. Baril's complaints. 
3 The video recordings were provided to our office by the complainant and are available on YouTube. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
complainant by telephone on January 19, 2018 and February 27, 2018; and with you by 
telephone on March 6, 2018.4 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On September 13, the Board posted notice for a meeting to 
be held on Monday, September 18 at 2:00 P.M. in the Selectmen's Meeting Room in the Shepard 
Municipal Building. The notice listed "Call Meeting to Order" and "Gravel Pits Site Visits," 
then listed seven specific properties with designated half hour time slots. One of the site visits 
was "Lois Fijol-Brimfield Rd." from 4:30 to 5:00 P.M. The last topic on the notice was "Discuss 
Gravel Pit Site Visits in Meeting Room." 
The complainant arrived at the Selectmen's Meeting Room at 2:00 P.M. on September 18 
but the door to the meeting room was locked and the Board was not present. The complainant 
remained outside the meeting room for approximately five minutes but no Board members 
arrived. The complainant then walked to the Board's office which was also located in the 
Shepard Municipal Building. There, he found three Board members who were waiting for one 
additional member before embarking on the site visits. The complainant spoke to the Board 
about the Fijol property on Brimfield Road and asked if he could attend that particular site visit. 
Chair Harold Ramsey explained that "this is an on-site visit for the Planning Board only" and 
told the complainant he would not be allowed on the property. The complainant, however, 
arrived on Brimfield Road and started video recording the Board's site visit, which resulted in a 
confrontation with the property owner. The Board dispersed after the site visits and did not 
return to the Selectmen's Meeting Room, deciding to discuss the site visits at its October 2 
meeting. 
On September 27, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on Monday, October 
2 at 7:15 P.M. in the Selectmen's Meeting Room in the Shepard Municipal Building. The notice 
listed eleven topics, including a public hearing on a special permit application to operate a 
"Junkyard/Automobile Graveyard" at Old West Warren Road and "Discuss Gravel Pits Site 
Visits." 
The September 27 meeting was held as planned. The complainant was allowed to record 
the meeting but was told to keep the camera focused on Chair Ramsey. The Board discussed the 
special permit application which included the transfer of a Class III license from John Fijol to 
Copart of Connecticut. Several people addressed the Board, including the complainant. 
Specifically, the complainant questioned whether this was a sale of property or a license transfer. 
Chair Ramsey explained that it could be a sale of property but the Board only has jurisdiction 
over the license transfer. The Board unanimously voted to allow the special permit application. 
The Board later discussed the gravel pits site visits that it conducted on September 27. 
The complainant addressed the Board discussing the confrontation that occurred at the Fijol site 
visit between himself and the property owner. Chair Ramsey indicated that was not a Board 
issue. The complainant stated that the Fijol site visit was a public meeting and continued to 
discuss the confrontation. Chair Ramsey responded that the site visits were only meant to be 
4 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
between the Board and the property owners and that any "public meeting" would be held at the 
Shepard Building. The complainant continued to argue with the Board. Chair Ramsey told the 
complainant "we are done and we are moving on down the agenda." When the complainant 
continued to speak to the Board, Chair Ramsey recessed the meeting and called the police. The 
complainant left the meeting before the police arrived and the Board reconvened its meeting 
thereafter. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Commission 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. 
I. The Complaint Alleging that the Board's September 18 Meeting was Inaccessible 
is Untimely. 
The first complaint alleges that the Board's meeting on September 18 was not accessible 
because the door to the Selectmen's meeting room was locked and the Board was actually 
meeting in its office. Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed 
with the public body within 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 C.M.R. 
29.05(4). Here, the complainant arrived at the posted meeting location and found the door 
locked and the Board in another location. However, the complaint was not received by the 
Board until October 31,43 days after the meeting at issue. Accordingly, we find this complaint 
to be untimely and we decline to review it. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); OML Declination 9-30-13 
(Boston Zoning Board of Appeals).5 
Although we do not address this allegation, we remind the Board that public bodies must 
post notice of each meeting and such notices must include the date, time and place of the 
meeting. See G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b). Access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be 
physically present, as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the 
public body. See OML 2015-38; OML 2014-3; OML 2013-189; OML 2012-66. In order for a 
meeting to be truly "open to the public," the meeting venue must be accessible to the public for 
the duration of the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). 
II. The Board Provided Sufficient Detail in its Meeting Notices. 
The second complaint alleges that certain topics on the September 18 and October 2 
meeting notices lacked sufficient detail. The complainant specifically takes issue with the 
"Gravel Pits Site Visits" topic on the Board's September 18 notice and the public hearing topic 
on the Board's October 2 notice. The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, 
"a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must be 
printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the 
meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting. Id. The list of topics shall have "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public 
of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a 
topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the 
topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35; 
OML 2012-71; OML 2011 -44. 
We conclude that both the September 18 and October 2 notices contained sufficient detail 
because the September 18 notice notified the public that the Board was conducting site visits and 
identified the seven specific properties by address and time; and the October 2 notice notified the 
public that the Board was conducting a public hearing, and identified the reason for the public 
hearing, the specific permit application and type of license requested, the name of the company 
requesting the license, and the property location. The Board need not list each and every detail 
about a topic in order to comply with the law's requirements. See OML 2014-122. 
We remind the Board that in order to conduct an on-site inspection in compliance with 
the Open Meeting Law, the Board has three options: (1) post notice of the inspection as a 
"meeting," provided only if the property was accessible to everyone, including members of the 
public; (2) visit the property as individuals or in groups that constitute less than a quorum so as 
to avoid deliberation among a quorum; or (3) visit the property as a quorum, but refrain from 
asking any questions of the property owner or otherwise discussing any matters within the 
Board's jurisdiction until the Board convenes in a properly noticed meeting. See OML 2017-44. 
III. The Board Imposed an Unreasonable Restriction on the Complainant's Right to 
Record the Meeting. 
Finally, the complainant alleges that the Board restricted his right to video record the 
October 2 meeting. The Open Meeting Law states that "[a]fter notifying the chair of the public 
body, any person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a 
public body, or may transmit the meeting through any medium, subject to reasonable 
requirements of the chair as to the number, placement and operation of equipment used so as not 
to interfere with the conduct of the meeting." G.L. c. 3 OA, § 20(f). The Board was not 
concerned with the complainant recording the meeting, but rather it was concerned with how the 
meeting was recorded and who was recorded. The law allows the chair to impose reasonable 
restrictions on the "number, placement, and operation of equipment used so as not to interfere 
with the conduct of the meeting." See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f); OML 2015-199. While we 
commend the Board for allowing the complainant to record the meeting, we conclude that 
requiring the complainant to focus his equipment only on the chair was not a reasonable 
restriction. As such, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by imposing this 
restriction. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
requiring that the complainant focus his recording equipment only on the chair. We order 
immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar future 
violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
KerryArine Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Michael Baril 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member of a 
body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
5 