===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
July 26, 2012 
OML 2012 - 65 
Edward J. DeAngelo 
General Counsel 
Commonwealth Health Insurance Connector Authority 
100 City Hall Plaza 
Boston, MA 02108 
Constantia T. Papanikolau 
General Counsel 
Department of Higher Education 
One Ashburton Place 
Room 1401 
Boston, MA 02108 
Nathan P. LaVallee 
Assistant General Counsel 
University of Massachusetts Amherst 
300 Whitmore Administration Building 
Amherst, MA 01003 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorneys DeAngelo, Papanikolau, and LaVallee: 
The Attorney General's Office reviewed a complaint by Ronald R. Patenaude, dated 
January 12, 2012, which was filed on behalf of the United Automobile Aerospace and 
Agricultural Implement Workers, Local 2322, and alleges that the Commonwealth Health 
Insurance Connector Authority ("Health Connector") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. Mr. Patenaude filed associated complaints against the Department of Higher 
Education and the University of Massachusetts Amherst Student Health Insurance Program. 
Because the three complaints involve the same allegations, we address all three with this letter. 
Specifically, the complaints allege that "Nile Health Connector engaged in meetings with other 
public bodies to determine the health insurance plan for students and employees at the UMass 
Amherst Campus (and other campuses). We believe those meetings should have been open to 
1 
===PAGE 2===
the public....We also believe the parties further violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
record minutes and attendance lists of the meetings..." The complaint was filed with the Health 
Connector on or about November 17, 2011. The Health Connector responded to the complaint 
by letter on December 22, 2011. Mr. Patenaude filed a similar complaint with the University of 
Massachusetts Student Health Insurance Program on or about December 6, 2011, and the 
University responded by letter on December 14, 2011. Mr. Patenaude filed a third complaint 
with the Massachusetts Department of Higher Education on December 6, 2011, and the 
Department responded by letter on December 22, 2011. 
We find that the Health Connector, the Department of Higher Education, and the 
University of Massachusetts Student Health Insurance Program did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by meeting with stakeholders to develop a solicitation for bids for a health insurance plan 
for the University of Massachusetts Amherst in 2011. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the complaints filed with the three state entities; the responses from each entity; and the 
January 12, 2012 complaint filed with our office. We also spoke with Mr. Patenaude by 
telephone on March 23, 2012; with Nathan LaVallee, Assistant General Counsel at the 
University of Massachusetts, by telephone on April 3, 2012; and with Constantia Papanikolaou, 
General Counsel at the Department of Higher Education, by telephone on April 5, 2012. 1  
FACTS 
In 2010, Department of Higher Education staff members met with representatives of the 
Commonwealth's public higher education institutions, as well as representatives from the Health 
Connector and the Division of Health Care Finance & Policy. The purpose of this meeting was 
to prepare a joint procurement for Student Health Insurance Plans ("SHIP") to serve the students 
of participating public institutions of higher education. The result of this meeting was the 
creation of a Student Health Plan Steering Committee (the "Steering Committee"), which 
included a team of 17 representatives, including representatives from the University of 
Massachusetts and the Commonwealth's other public universities and community colleges. Four 
of the members were student representatives. According to Department of Higher Education 
General Counsel Papanikolaou, the Steering Committee was not created by the Department of 
Higher Education or created by statute, but was organized informally by state agency staff. No 
public body authorized the creation of the Steering Committee. Although the Steering 
Committee had a defined membership, there was no quorum requirement for convening meetings 
and the Steering Committee did not take votes, though the members worked with Department of 
Higher Education staff to develop a request for proposals. The Steering Committee's purpose 
was to share information among the Commonwealth's public universities and colleges and try to 
achieve better health insurance rates for students through a joint purchasing effort. The Steering 
Committee met monthly with Department of Higher Education staff and, in January 2011, issued 
a request for proposals from health insurance providers. The Steering Committee received and 
evaluated bids from qualified insurance companies. The qualified bidders were announced on 
March 31, 2011. However, no contract was awarded through this process; each individual 
university and community college was then able to evaluate the qualified bidders to determine 
whether to accept or reject their proposals. 
Ultimately, the University of Massachusetts Amherst opted to pursue its own 
1  For purposes of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
procurement process. Vice-Chancellor for Student Affairs Jean Kim oversaw the process for 
choosing a student health insurance plan, and had authority from the University to pick an 
insurance provider. Vice-Chancellor Kim created the University of Massachusetts Amherst 
Student Health Insurance Plan Committee, which included two students from the University of 
Massachusetts Amherst campus, to advise her in the process for choosing a health insurance 
provider. She was not required by state law or by the University Board of Trustees to create 
such a committee. 
DISCUSSION 
A "public body" subject to the Open Meeting Law is any "multiple-member board, 
commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any 
county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Supreme Judicial 
Court recognized an exemption to the Open Meeting Law in Connelly v. School Committee of 
Hanover,  409 Mass. 232 (1991). In Connelly,  the Court held that where an individual public 
official creates a committee to advise that person on a decision that he or she has the sole 
authority to make, that committee is not subject to the Open Meeting Law. Connelly,  409 Mass 
at 235. However, where such an entity is created by a public body, this exception does not 
apply. 
To determine whether a multiple-member entity is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, we generally consider three characteristics of all public bodies: 
1. The entity must be "within" government and not excluded from the definition of 
"public body"; and 
2. The entity must be a "body" empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a "public purpose." 
The Steering Committee was clearly a multiple-member entity within government, as it 
was organized by Department of Higher Education staff and included a set group of 
representatives of state agencies, public universities and community colleges. It was established 
to serve a public purpose, namely to identify an affordable health insurance option for students of 
the Commonwealth's public universities and community colleges. 
The more difficult question is whether the Steering Committee was a body empowered to 
act collectively. While it may have reached consensus on certain decisions, the Steering 
Committee did not take votes and had no quorum requirement. The Steering Committee was 
organized by Department of Higher Education staff to share information and work together on a 
joint purchasing process. The Steering Committee had no authority to choose any insurance 
provider or plan. That responsibility remained with the individual universities and community 
colleges. The members of the Steering Committee could have each individually developed and 
issued requests for proposals for health insurance providers. However, with the assistance of the 
Department of Higher Education, the members worked together in a joint process to develop and 
issue a single request for proposals for health insurance providers. The Steering Committee 
3 
===PAGE 4===
members' decision to work together on a procurement process that they could have pursued 
individually did not create a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, as the group still was 
not empowered to act collectively. 
Further, we find that the University of Massachusetts Amherst Student Health Insurance 
Plan Committee was also not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. Although its 
representatives participated in the Steering Committee, the University of Massachusetts Amherst 
ultimately decided to engage in its own process to identify a student health insurance provider. 
Vice-Chancellor Kim created the University of Massachusetts Amherst Student Health Insurance 
Plan Committee, to advise her in the process for choosing a health insurance provider. She was 
not required by law or by the University Board of Trustees to create such a committee. Because 
this committee was created by a public official to advise her on a decision that she had the sole 
authority to make, we find that this committee fell within the Connelly exception, and was 
therefore not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. See Connelly, 409 Mass at 235. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that Health Connector, the Department of Higher Education, and the University 
of Massachusetts Student Health Insurance Program did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
participating in meetings of a student health insurance steering committee. Further, we find that 
the University of Massachusetts Amherst Student Health Insurance Plan Committee was also not 
a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider this matter closed. Please contact me if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Vathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ronald R. Patenaude, President UAW 2322 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 