===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 21, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 134 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Mark R. Reich, Esq. 
KP Law 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Reich: 
This office received a complaint on July 23, 2020,1 from Marlies Henderson, a member 
of the Billerica Community Preservation Committee (the “Committee”), alleging that the 
Committee and the Committee’s chair Richard Scanlon violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on June 22, and you 
responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated July 8. The complaint alleges that 1) the 
Chair violated the Open Meeting Law when, during a meeting held via Zoom, he cut the 
Complainant off while she was speaking and instructed that she be muted, which she then was,  
2) in general, “much deliberation takes place outside of public meetings by ‘leadership 
members,’” and 3) meeting minutes often do not include the Complainant’s comments.2 
 
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
and find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this 
 
1 All dates in this determination are in 2020, unless otherwise stated.  
2 The complaint raises several other allegations that fall outside of the Open Meeting Law. These allegations include 
that the Committee failed to post notice for a public hearing in compliance with G.L. c. 44b, § 5(b)(1); email 
communications are not included in the Committee’s meeting packets; the Chair represented the Committee at a 
meeting of the Board of Selectmen without the Committee first voting to allow him to do so or being made aware 
that he would be representing the Committee at the Board of Selectmen meeting; and when the Complainant submits 
questions via email she is ignored and must file public records requests to get the information she needs. Because 
each of these allegations, even if true, would not constitute a violation of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, we decline to 
review these allegations. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response, the 
request for further review, and a video recording of the Committee’s May 28 meeting.3,4   
 
First, we decline to review this complaint with respect to the allegations that “much 
deliberation takes place outside of public meetings,” and that meeting minutes often do not 
include the Complainant’s comments. The Open Meeting Law states that a “complainant shall 
file a written complaint with the public body, setting forth the circumstances which constitute the 
alleged violation and giving the body an opportunity to remedy the alleged violation.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(b). As such, complainants must allege violations with a degree of specificity, and our 
office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations. See OML 
Declination 3-20-12 (Wilmington Board of Assessors). Because the complaint does not include 
any specific information with respect to these allegations, we decline to review them. See OML 
2020-20; OML Declination 7-5-16 (Swansea School Committee). 
 
 Next, with respect to the allegation that the chair limited the Complainant’s ability to 
speak during a particular portion of the meeting and instructed another person to mute the 
Complainant, which then happened, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. The Open 
Meeting Law states, in part, that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body without 
permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.” The term 
“person” in this section of the law applies to both members of the public and members of the 
public body. See OML 2013-135. Here, we find that the Chair did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law where, during the public hearing portion of the May 28 meeting held via Zoom, he informed 
the Complainant that her question was not on topic and directed that the Complainant be muted. 
 
Although the Chair acted within his discretion under the Law, we strongly discourage the 
use of technology to silence fellow members engaging in civil discourse regarding Committee 
business. Here, although the Chair deemed the Complainant’s comments to be off topic, and 
although the Complainant did not immediately cease speaking when the Chair told her that her 
comments were off topic, the Complainant did not repeatedly interrupt the meeting, refuse to 
stay on topic, or otherwise disrupt the meeting. Nor did the Chair warn the Complainant that she 
would be muted if she continued to speak. In fact, the entire exchange from when the 
Complainant first began her comment to when the Chair directed that the Complainant be muted 
lasted approximately 30 seconds. We find the use of technology to silence a fellow member in 
this manner concerning and discourage such practices.  
 
 
3 A recording of the Committee’s May 28 meeting may be found at 
https://billerica.cablecast.tv/CablecastPublicSite/show/2552?channel=3.  
4 Although not raised in the complaint, we note that it appears that the Open Meeting Law notice for the 
Committee’s May 28 meeting is insufficiently detailed. The Open Meeting Law states, in relevant part, that meeting 
notices “shall contain . . . a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). These topics must be listed with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to 
include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the 
anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2019-70. Here, if the Chair anticipated that particular 
applications, warrant articles, and meeting minutes would be discussed at the May 28 meeting, then these details 
should have been included on the meeting notice. See OML 2011-7.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
 
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
cc: Richard Scanlon, Chair, Billerica Community Preservation Committee (via e-mail: 
) 
Marlies Henderson (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
