===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
January 18, 2013 
OML 2013 — 9 
Brian Riley, Esq. 
Kopelman & Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
This office received a complaint from Ms. Mary Wheeler dated July 10, 2012, alleging 
that the Middlefield Select Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about May 30, 2012, and 
you responded on behalf of the Board to the original complaint by letter dated June 15, 2012. 
In her complaint, Ms. Wheeler alleges that the Board's notice for its May 22, 2012 meeting 
failed to include any mention that the Board would convene in open session before entering 
into executive session. Ms. Wheeler requests that the Board provide her with a letter 
explaining the reason the Board went into executive session on May 22, 2012 "with 
knowledge of the improper posting;" I  asks that the Board follow proper executive session 
protocol in the future; and requests full disclosure of the executive session minutes from the 
May 22, 2012 meeting. 2  
We reviewed the May 30, 2012 complaint; your June 15, 2012 response; the July 10, 
2012 complaint filed with our office, which included a photograph of the Board's notices for 
the May 22, 2012 and May 29, 2012 meetings, which were posted on the Middlefield Post 
Office bulletin board; and your letter to our office dated August 8, 2012. 3  We also reviewed a 
copy of the May 22, 2012 meeting notice that was posted outside of Town Hall and the 
meeting minutes from the May 22, 2012 meeting. 
We are satisfied that the Board appropriately responded to Ms. Wheeler's request for an explanation in its June 
15, 2012 response to the complaint, a copy of which Ms. Wheeler received. 
2  Ms. Wheeler clarified with our office that while her complaint mistakenly states May 29, 2012, she intended to 
request the release of the May 22, 2012 executive session minutes. 
3  For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
it 
===PAGE 2===
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include in its meeting notice all topics that were reasonably anticipated 48 hours in 
advance of the meeting. However, we do not find that this was an intentional violation, but 
rather was the result of a colorable but incorrect interpretation of the Law's requirements. We 
therefore order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and provide 
future guidance to the Board and other public bodies by way of this letter. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. Duane 
Pease, the Board's Administrative Assistant, stated that the Board's notice for its May 22, 
2012 meeting was posted on the bulletin board that is located outside of Town Hall and 
adjacent to the front door. Mr. Pease stated that the notice was posted on either May 16 or 
May 17, 2012, since he typically posts the Board's meeting notices on the Wednesday prior to 
the scheduled meeting on the following Tuesday or, at the latest, on that Thursday before 6:00 
P.M.4  The meeting notice for the May 22, 2012 meeting listed only one topic for discussion. 
Under the heading, "Selectboard Executive Session," the notice read, "[s]ession held to meet 
with defense attorney to discuss strategy for defending the lawsuit brought regarding Harry 
Pease Road."5  
On May 22, 2012, the Board convened a meeting in open session. According to the 
meeting minutes, the Board held a brief discussion regarding whether it should still convene 
in executive session, since the meeting notice did not mention that the Board would first 
convene in open session. After discussing the issue with counsel to the Town by telephone in 
open session, the Board decided to continue with the scheduled executive session. Chair 
Noreen Suriner made a motion to enter into executive session "and not to reconvene in open 
session," which was approved unanimously by roll call vote. Prior to entering into executive 
session, the Board did not state the purpose for holding the executive session, nor did Chair 
Suriner state that holding this discussion in open session would have a detrimental effect on 
the Board's litigating position. The open session was then adjourned. In its response to this 
complaint, the Board argues that the purpose for the executive session continues to justify 
confidentiality of the meeting minutes, as the lawsuit regarding Henry Pease Road is ongoing. 
The Board has stated that it will release the minutes once the lawsuit is concluded, however. 
As of January 18, 2013, the lawsuit remained pending in court and therefore the executive 
session minutes from the May 22, 2012 meeting remain withheld from disclosure. 
4  The clerk does not date stamp meeting notices because she does not open mail daily, since she only has office 
hours on Monday evenings and Saturday mornings. However, we remind the Board of its requirement that the 
date and time that the notice is posted shall be recorded on or with the notice itself. See 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). 
5  We note that the complainant's photograph of the meeting notice which, according to the complainant, was 
posted on the bulletin board at the Post Office, listed the heading and topic as follows: "Executive Session: 
Meet with defense attorney Regarding Harry Pease Way Lawsuit." We acknowledge the slight discrepancy; 
however for purposes of reviewing this complaint, we will refer to the meeting notice that was posted outside of 
Town Hall as the official meeting notice, since that is the Board's usual posting method. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice 48 hours in advance of 
a meeting and include, a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a 
meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a topic to include 
sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2011-44. 6  
The Board's meeting notice did not offer the public a complete understanding of the 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipated would be discussed at the meeting. Because the 
Open Meeting Law requires that a public body convene in open session before entering 
executive session, any public body entering executive session should reasonably anticipate 
that it will convene in open session to 1) state the purpose for its executive session, 2) take a 
vote to enter executive session, and 3) announce whether it will re-convene in open session 
following the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(1)-(4). When the only business to be 
discussed during an open session is the procedural requirements for entering executive 
session, listing "open session" on the meeting notice is the only means by which members of 
the public are informed that a public body will, in fact, hold an open meeting that they are 
permitted to attend.' See  OML 2012-68. Without such notice, members of the public are 
essentially denied the opportunity to attend and judge the propriety of the executive session. 
See OML 2012-55. For this reason, the Board's meeting notice was not sufficiently detailed 
to comply with the Open Meeting Law. We acknowledge, however, that this office has not 
previously published its interpretation of this issue in a formal determination, thus this letter is 
intended to provide future guidance to the Board and other public bodies. 
Furthermore, we note that the Board failed to follow certain procedural steps required 
before convening an executive session under the Open Meeting Law. Before entering 
executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive session, stating all 
subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive 
session was called. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). Here, the Board did not verbally state the purpose 
for its executive session at the time it voted to enter, though we infer from the meeting notice 
that the Board intended to convene under Purpose 3. Additionally, when entering executive 
session under Purpose 3, a public body must declare in open session that having this 
discussion in open session may have a detrimental effect on its litigating position. Id. at 
§ 21(a)(3); OML 2011-47. The Board failed to do so here. These were not mere technical 
violations. The procedural requirements are intended to protect the public's right to know 
when a body is discussing matters behind closed doors, and the reasons its members believe a 
6  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.goviago/openmeeting. 
This requirement is only applicable to the situation where there are no anticipated topics for discussion during 
an open session other than the procedural requirements for convening an executive session. Where a public 
body anticipates discussing specific topics during an open session meeting, it is not required to additionally list 
"open session" as a topic. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
private discussion is warranted. OML 2012-10. In its response to this complaint, however, 
the Board committed to following such requirements for convening future executive sessions. 
We believe this is appropriate remedial action. 
Finally, we decline to order the release of the minutes from the May 22, 2012 
executive session while the lawsuit is pending, as the complainant requested. In its response 
to the complaint, the Board acknowledged its duty to release the minutes once the lawsuit is 
concluded. Based on this response, we are satisfied that the Board understands that once 
litigation has concluded, the minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the executive 
session rnust be disclosed, unless the attorney-client privilege or one or more of the 
exemptions under the Public Records law applies to withhold the records, or any portion 
thereof, from disclosure. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). We also remind the Board of its obligation to 
review the minutes of executive sessions at reasonable intervals to determine if continued 
non-disclosure of minutes is warranted, and to announce that determination at the next 
meeting following its review. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to include in its meeting notice all topics that were reasonably anticipated 48 hours 
in advance of the meeting. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, and offer this letter as future guidance. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this 
letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Mary Wheeler 
Middlefield Select Board 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
4 