===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
March 25, 2013 
OML 2013 - 35 
Lauren Goldberg 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
Gregg Corbo 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint — Carver Zoning Board of Appeals 
Dear Attorneys Goldberg and Corbo: 
This office received three complaints from Mr. Robert Belbin, dated February 8, 2012; 
May 16, 2012; and June 16, 2012. The complaints allege that the Carver Zoning Board of 
Appeals (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Mr. Belbin's 
February 8, 2012 complaint alleges that during its December 15, 2011 meeting: 1) the Board did 
not distribute its agenda to all attendees; 2) the Board failed to vote to properly enter into 
executive session; and 3) two members of the Board held private conversations with a petitioner 
out of earshot of the public attendees. Additionally, the complaint alleges that the notice for the 
meeting failed to sufficiently identify the purpose for an executive session. This complaint was 
filed with the Board on or about December 19, 2011. The Board responded to the complaint by 
letter dated February 1, 2012. The May 16, 2012 complaint alleges that the minutes of the 
Board's December 15, 2011 meeting are "inaccurate and missing discussion." This complaint 
was filed with the Board on or about April 24, 2012. The Board responded by letter dated May 
14, 2012. Finally, the June 16, 2012 complaint alleges that the minutes of the Board's December 
15, 2011 and January 26, 2012 meetings are inaccurate. This complaint was filed with the Board 
on or about May 17, 2012. The Board responded by letter dated June 14, 2012. 
We decline to review the May 16, 2012 and June 16, 2012 complaints because they were 
not timely filed with the Board.' Our review of the February 8, 2012 complaint included the 
The Open Meeting Law states that complaints must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the alleged 
violation or within 30 days of when the alleged violation could reasonably have been discovered. G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3). When an alleged violation occurs in open session, the alleged violation can reasonably 
===PAGE 2===
December 19, 2011 complaint filed with the Board; the Board's February 1, 2012 response; and 
the February 8, 2012 complaint filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice and open and 
executive session minutes of the Board's December 15, 2011 meeting. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties as we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when the Secretary 
distributed agendas at the beginning of its December 15, 2011 meeting, and that the Board did, in 
fact, take a public vote to enter into executive session at the same meeting. However, we find 
that the Board's meeting notice and the Chair's statement prior entering into executive session on 
December 15, 2011 were not sufficiently specific. The Board has acknowledged these errors, 
and pledged to ensure future compliance. Finally, we find that the Board did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law when two Board members spoke to a petitioner during a recess at the 
Board's December 15, 2011 meeting. 
FACTS 
The Board is a public body consisting of seven members. The notice for the Board's 
December 15, 2011 meeting included three topics. Two topics were included in the category of 
"New Petitions" and the third was listed as "Executive Session (if needed)." 
At the beginning of the Board's meeting on December 15, 2011, the Board Secretary 
distributed meeting agendas to members of the audience. According to the complainant, the 
Board Secretary "intentionally handed copies of the meeting agenda to members of the public in 
attendance except for me." The Board asserts that the Board Secretary prepared copies of the 
agenda and distributed it to the members present at the meeting. The Board's Secretary does not 
remember whether the complainant was present at the time, but the Board states that she would 
have provided an agenda to any person who asked for one. 
During the meeting, the Board held hearings on two petitions. After the hearing on the 
second petition, the Board voted to schedule a site visit at the petitioner's property. According to 
the complainant, who was present for this portion of the meeting, following the second hearing, 
the "Chairman adjourned the meeting making no mention of a[n] Executive Session and NO 
recordable roll call vote taken to enter Executive Session." (emphasis in original). The 
complaint then explains that: 
[Board member] James Nauen left the table and walked to the applicant and to her 
builder who were standing in the second row of seats in the meeting room and talked to 
her in a quiet voice that no one could hear what they were saying. Then [Board member] 
Walter Collins approached Nauen and the applicant and the builder and began to talk also 
in a quiet voice. I could not hear what they were talking about standing at the doorway a 
few feet away. 
be discovered at the time it occurs. See OML 2012-52. Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the 
Attorney General's website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  Here, the minutes of the Board's December 15, 2011 
and January 26, 2012 meetings were approved by the Board in open session on March 15, 2012, and thus were 
available to the public as of that date. Mr. Belbin should, therefore, have filed his complaints with the Board within 
30 days after the minutes were approved. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
In its February 1, 2012 letter, the Board explains that following the second hearing, the 
Board voted to enter into executive session. The draft minutes of the meeting state that 
"MOTION: by Mr. Collins to go into Executive Session at 9:15 p.m. to discuss potential 
litigation and then return to open session only to adjourn." The minutes reflect a roll call vote 
with all members voting in favor of the executive session. According to its February 1, 2012 
letter, the Board took a short break prior to entering executive session, though after the vote, at 
which time one of the Board members approached the petitioner to discuss the location of the 
petitioner's property. The other Board member approached the petitioner to discuss the process 
for flagging trees. 
Following the short break, the Board entered into executive session. We do not recount 
the content of that executive session here, as the executive session purpose has not expired and 
the minutes have not been publicly released. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)—(b), 21. Notice of every meeting must be posted "at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, 
excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays," and every notice shall include "the date, time 
and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The Attorney General's regulations require that 
the list of topics "have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). All deliberations must occur during a noticed 
meeting. The law defines a "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
A public body may enter executive—or closed—session for any of ten enumerated 
purposes, provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of members of 
the body have voted to go into executive session and the vote of each member is recorded by roll 
call and entered into the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)—(b). Before entering the executive 
session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be 
revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called, and the 
chair must publicly announce whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the 
executive session. Id. Among the ten enumerated purposes for executive session is Purpose 3, 
which allows a public body to enter executive session to "discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3). 
I. 	 The Board did not Violate the Open Meeting Law when the Secretary Distributed 
Agendas at the Beginning of its December 15, 2011 Meeting.  
Notice for the Board's December 15, 2011 meeting was posted in accordance with the 
Open Meeting Law, and was available by request in the Clerk's office. The Open Meeting Law 
does not require that meeting notices or agendas be distributed to members of the audience 
3 
===PAGE 4===
during a meeting. We make no finding as to whether the Board's Secretary intentionally 
withheld an agenda from Mr. Belbin but note that, while we encourage public bodies to share 
any printed material distributed during a meeting with all attendees, failure to do so does not 
constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
II. The Board Voted to Enter Executive Session During its December 15, 2011  
Meeting, but Failed to Follow Proper Procedure.  
The complaint alleges that the Board Chair "adjourned the meeting making no mention of 
a[n] Executive Session and NO recordable roll call vote taken to enter Executive Session." We 
find that the Board did, in fact, vote by roll call to enter executive session "to discuss potential 
litigation and then return to open session only to adjourn." We note, however, that the Chair did 
not state that holding the discussion "in an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining or litigating position of the" Board, as required by the law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). 
The Chair also failed to publicly state the purpose for the executive session with 
sufficient detail. Before entering executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the 
executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose 
for which the executive session was called. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). Here, the Chair should have 
specifically stated the names of all pending litigation matters that the Board anticipated 
discussing during the executive session, if doing so would not have compromised the purpose for 
the executive session. See OML 2012-55; OML 2011-54. 
The Board acknowledged these deficiencies in its February 1, 2012 letter, and has 
pledged that "in the future, the Board's meeting notice and vote will contain the additional detail 
recommended by the Attorney General."3  
III. The Board did not Violate the Open Meeting Law When Two Board Members  
Spoke to a Petitioner During a Recess at the Board's December 15, 2011 meeting. 
The complaint alleges that during a break in the December 15, 2011 meeting, the Board 
engaged in an impermissible deliberation outside of a posted meeting when two members of the 
seven-member Board approached a petitioner and quietly discussed matters outside of earshot of 
the public attendees. A "deliberation" is "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Because the Board consists of seven 
members, four constitutes a quorum. Therefore, fewer than four members may discuss matters 
within the jurisdiction of the Board outside of a meeting without deliberating. Here, only two 
members privately discussed matters with a petitioner. Although we find that the Board did not 
violate the law, in the interest of transparency, we encourage the Board members to conduct 
2  Note, however, that all documents and exhibits used by a public body at an open session meeting become part of 
the official record and, with few exceptions, must be disclosed in response to a public records request. G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 22(d), (e). 
3  In reviewing the Board's December 15, 2011 executive session meeting minutes, in camera, we note that the 
minutes do not include a sufficient summary of the discussion of topics. As the minutes provided to our office are 
still in draft form and are not the final minutes approved by the Board, we do not find a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law. However, we expect that the minutes will be amended to include a full summary of the Board's 
discussion before they are fmalized and approved. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
Sincerely, 
discussions with petitioners and audience members that are related to Board business during the 
open session portion of the meeting. 
IV. 	 The Notice for the Board's December 15, 2011 Meeting Failed to Include 
Specific Information About the Executive Session.  
The complaint alleges that the notice for the Board's December 15, 2011 meeting failed 
to sufficiently identify the purpose for the executive session. The notice contained the topic 
"Executive Session (if needed)." A meeting notice must list each topic that the chair reasonably 
anticipates the public body will discuss, listed with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). 
Here, the Board should have stated the specific statutory purpose for its anticipated executive 
session, and the name or names of the litigation it anticipated discussing. Providing this level of 
detail would not have compromised the purpose for entering into executive session, but would 
have given the public sufficient notice as to the topics the Board planned to discuss in executive 
session. The Board acknowledged this failure in its February 1, 2012 letter and has pledged that 
"in the future, the Board's meeting notice and vote will contain the additional detail 
recommended by the Attorney General." 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when the Secretary 
distributed agendas at the beginning of its December 15, 2011 meeting, and that the Board did, in 
fact, take a public vote to enter into executive session at the same meeting. Furthermore, we find 
that the Board did not engage in an unlawful deliberation when two members spoke privately 
with a petitioner during a break in the December 15, 2011 meeting. However, we find that the 
Board's meeting notice and the Chair's statement prior entering into executive session on 
December 15, 2011 were not sufficiently specific. We order the Board's immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution the board that similar future violations may 
be considered an intentional violation of the law. 
We now consider this matter closed. Please contact me if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
J athan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Carver Zoning Board of Appeals 
Robert Belbin 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
5 