===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
May 10, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 92 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
David Gerwatowski, Esq. 
Gerwatowski Law Office 
56 Agawam St. 
New Bedford, MA 02745 
 
davidgerwatowski@comcast.net 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Gerwatowski:  
 
On  January 19, 2024, this office received a complaint from Craig Ptaszenski, alleging 
that the New Bedford City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Council on December 8, 2023.  You 
responded on behalf of the Council by letter dated December 18, 2023.  The complainant alleges 
that the Council deliberated outside a posted meeting on or about November 30, 2023, thereby 
violating the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged by the complainant.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint, the 
response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We viewed a 
recording of the meeting held on November 30, 2023, as well as a holiday greeting recorded by 
the Council.
1  We also viewed video recordings provided by the complainant.    
 
  
 
1 Recordings of the meeting and greeting can be accessed at https://newbedford-
ma.granicus.com/player/clip/92?view_id=16&redirect=true and https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qraZ_TqafEY, 
respectively. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
  
We find the facts as follows.2  The Council held a meeting on November 30.3  Following 
the meeting, the Council chambers were locked and Council members remained to record a 
holiday greeting, including a song sung by a quorum of Council members.4  A comparison of the 
video recording of the meeting to the video recording of the holiday greeting reveals that Council 
members are wearing the same clothes in each video, strongly suggesting that the two videos 
were created on the same day.  The complainant also has provided a recording which appears to 
be filmed from the balcony of the chambers.  In the recording, he notes that the doors are locked 
and that there is a quorum within the chambers.  As he narrates the video, members down in the 
gallery look up at him.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law is designed to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. Of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public unless an executive session is 
convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The Law defines a “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction,” but explicitly excludes “attendance by a quorum of a public 
body at a public or private gathering, including a conference or training program or a media, 
social or other event, so long as the members do not deliberate.”  Id; OML 2021-161; OML 2016 
- 134.5  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the 
members of a public body.  Id. 
 
Based on the available evidence in this case, including video recordings and the 
Council’s representations, we do not find that deliberation took place when Council members 
recorded a holiday greeting following adjournment of the November 30 meeting.  As we have 
noted previously, absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s account of 
the facts.  See OML 2023-121; OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141; see also LaPointe v. License 
Board of Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) (“There is every presumption in favor of the honesty 
and sufficiency of the motives actuating public officers in actions ostensibly taken for the general 
welfare.”)  There is no evidence that members of the Council deliberated following the meeting 
of November 30.  Indeed, the evidence supports the Council’s assertion that it remained in 
chambers following adjournment to record a holiday greeting.  Therefore, we find no violation.      
  
 
2 This is one of two complaints Craig Ptaszenski filed against the Council as a result of holiday-related activity in 
2023.  See OML 2024-85. 
3 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2023. 
4 As shown on a recording provided by the complainant, at some point, Council president Linda Morad unlocked the 
chamber doors to admit a Council member, who had to step over a velvet rope to enter.  The chamber doors were re-
locked immediately after his entry.   
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website,  https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as al
leged in the complaint.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this 
determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may 
be pending with our office or the Council.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-
2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
  
  
Matt
hew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
 
cc: Craig Ptaszenski (via email: ) 
New Bedford Council President (via email: Naomi.Carney@newbedford-ma.gov) 
 Mayor of the City of New Bedford (via email: Mayor.Mitchell@newbedford-ma.gov) 
 New Bedford City Clerk (via email: dennis.farias@newbedford-ma.gov) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
 
