===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 24, 2015 
OML 2015-175 
Susan Rufo, Chair 
Wayland Board of Assessors 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Rufo: 
This office received a complaint from George Harris, dated August 25, alleging that the 
Wayland Board of Assessors (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the notice for the Board's June 1 meeting failed to 
include specific detail for an executive topic and that the Board failed to follow proper procedure 
for entering into executive session during the June 1 meeting. The complaint was originally filed 
with the Board on June 23. The Board responded by letter dated July 30, following an extension 
of time granted by our office. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Board, the Board's 
response, and the complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed the notice for, and 
the open and executive session minutes of, the Board's June 1 meeting. Finally, we spoke with 
Wayland Town Counsel Mark Lanza by telephone on October 15. 
The notice for the Board's June 1 meeting listed a topic as, "Enter into Executive Session 
pursuant to MGL Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(3) for Director to provide status update and discuss 
strategy with respect to Pending Appellate Tax Board Case." During the June 1 meeting, the 
Board voted to entering to executive session, "for the Director to provide the Board with a status 
1 All dates refer to the year 2015. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
update and to discuss strategy with respect to Pending Appellate Tax Board Cases." In speaking 
with the Board's Attorney, we understand that the Board did not identify the specific Appellate 
Tax Board case because it was concerned that doing so would affect related litigation and 
negotiation with the same party. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. 
c. 3OA, § 21(a). Before entering into executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the 
executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose 
for which the executive session was called. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). One purpose for executive 
session is for public bodies to discuss, "strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation 
if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the 
public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). A public body's 
discussions with its counsel do not automatically fall under this or any other purpose for holding 
an executive session. Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Guide, March 18, 2015, at page 
10. This purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with respect to litigation that 
is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. See Perryman 
v. School Committee of Boston. 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2013-108; OML 
2012-43; OML2012-5.2 
Here, the Board entered into executive session to discuss strategy with respect to 
litigation, specifically a pending Appellate Tax Board case. Generally, public bodies must 
identify the specific litigation matter they intend to discuss before entering into executive session 
under Purpose 3. See OML 2012-118. A public body may withhold the identity of the litigation 
matter if publicly disclosing it would compromise the purpose for which the executive session 
was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). While we generally defer to a public body's assessment 
of whether the inclusion of such details would compromise the purpose for an executive session, 
a public body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for that claim if challenged. See 
OML 2012-118. The Board contends that, here, disclosing the identity of the Appellate Tax 
Board case prior to this executive session would have been detrimental to its litigating position 
and compromised the purpose for which the executive session was called because it was 
concerned that doing so would affect related litigation and negotiation with the same party. 
Having discussed the full context of the litigation with Town Counsel, we accept the Board's 
explanation that, given the complex nature of its negotiations and litigation, identifying the 
specific Appellate Tax Board case here would have been detrimental to the Board's litigating 
position. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/opemneeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve any 
other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Board. Please feel free to 
contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: George Harris 
Mark Lanza, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action fded in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 