===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 9, 2018 
OML 2018-3 
Katherine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan on October 20, alleging that 
the Ashland Conservation Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on or about 
August 16, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Commission, by letter dated 
October 18.2 In his complaint, Mr. Morgan alleges that the Commission's July 24 meeting 
minutes failed to include a list of documents used during the meeting.3 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance 
with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law. 
In its response, the Commission concedes that its July 24 meeting minutes lacked the 
requisite list of documents and, during its October 16 meeting, it amended the minutes to 
include the missing detail. The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to "create and 
maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, 
time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, 
a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise specified. 
2 We remind the Commission that a public body must respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 
business days, unless the public body is granted an extension of time from our office. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 
CMR 29.05(5). 
3 Mr. Morgan also alleges that, since January 1, each of the Commission's prior minutes also failed to include 
this list. Mr. Morgan acknowledges, however, that this allegation would be considered untimely by our office. 
Because the Commission approved the prior minutes within one or two subsequent meetings, we agree that this 
allegation is untimely. We therefore limit our review to the Commission's July 24 meeting minutes. Regardless, 
we encourage the Commission to amend its prior meeting minutes to include the list of documents used at each 
of its meetings. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
taken at each meeting, including a record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Where a 
document is physically present, verbally identified, and the contents are discussed by the 
members of a public body during a meeting, it has been "used" for purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law. See OML 2017-92; OML 2014-12; OML 2012-42.4 As the Commission 
acknowledged, because it had used certain documents during its meeting, failure to include a 
list of those documents in the minutes is a violation of the Open Meeting Law. Accordingly, 
we order the Commission's immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, 
and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate 
the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Stephen Morgan 
Ashland Conservation Commission 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 