===PAGE 1===
E COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www. mass. go v/ ago 
May 31,2018 
OML 2018-74 
Janelle Austin, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street, \2 th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Austin; 
This office received two complaints from George Harris on October 26 and November 
13, alleging that the Wayland School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaints were originally filed with the 
Committee on or about August 22 and August 31, respectively. Chair Ellen Grieco responded 
to both complaints, on behalf of the Committee, by email on September 21.2 In his complaint, 
Mr. Hams alleges that the Committee's March 27 and March 31 executive session minutes 
regarding the superintendent's contract negotiation lack sufficient detail. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Committee's 
responses to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed the relevant portions of the original and revised executive session 
minutes from the Committee's March 27 and March 31 meetings. Finally, we spoke by 
telephone with Ms. Grieco on April 5. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On March 27, the Committee met in executive session to 
discuss, in part, negotiation strategy with respect to the hiring of a new school superintendent. 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise specified. 
2 Our office granted the Committee an extension of time to respond to the August 22 complaint until September 
20. Chair Grieco concedes that the response was submitted after the deadline "due to the press of other 
business." We remind the Committee that, within 14 business days after receiving the complaint, unless an 
extension has been granted by the Attorney General, the public body must send its response to the complainant 
and to our office. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
1 HI 
MAURA HE ALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
o 
===PAGE 2===
This negotiation discussion lasted only several minutes and was part of a two-hour executive 
session during which the Committee focused on other topics. According to the minutes, 
which were publicly released on August 7, Chair Grieco provided the Committee with an 
update "regarding her recent discussion with Arthur Unobskey regarding negotiation of his 
contract. A brief discussion followed in this regard." In response to the complaint, the 
Committee revised its March 27 executive session minutes on January 22, 2018 by adding 
that Chair Grieco's negotiation discussion with Mr. Unobskey included "compensation, 
notice, benefits, and termination terms." 
The Committee again convened in executive session for approximately one hour on 
March 31 to receive a further update regarding contract negotiations with Mr. Unobskey. 
Chair Grieco provided the Committee with an update following an email conversation she'd 
had with Mr. Unobskey. According to the minutes, which were publicly released on July 24, 
the Committee "discussed the terms of the contract, particularly the starting salary." Then, 
the assistant superintendent provided the Committee with comparable information on other 
superintendents' contracts "in terms of experience, salaries, annuities, travel allowances, and 
student enrollment. Other negotiable terms include bonuses, benefits, sick leave, vacation 
buy back, subscriptions to educational materials, and notice of termination." Following this 
discussion, the minutes state that Chair Grieco will contact Mr. Unobskey again "regarding 
revisions to the contact." In response to the complaint, the Committee revised the March 31 
executive session meeting minutes on May 7, 2018 by adding that Mr. Unobskey expressed 
"his excitement to be working with the Wayland schools and its students[.]" 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, 
the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing 
minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with 
the accuracy requirement. See OML 2013-64.3 By substantial compliance, we mean that the 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did 
not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what 
occurred. See OML 2012-106. While minutes must include a summary of the discussion on 
each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or 
opinion presented. See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. 
The complaints allege that the Committee's March 27 and March 31 executive session 
minutes regarding contract negotiations with the new superintendent lacked sufficient detail. 
The Committee revised both sets of minutes in response to the complaints. For its March 27 
executive session minutes, the Committee added detail about the particular subjects of Chair 
Grieco's conversation with the superintendent (e.g., compensation and benefits). According 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
http;//www .mass .gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
to Chair Grieco, the Committee did not actually discuss those subjects during the meeting, but 
rather identified them as topics she had previously discussed with Mr. Unobskey. The 
purpose of the update was to inform the Committee that the negotiation discussion was 
moving forward. We find that both the original and revised minutes accurately reflect the 
Committee's brief update from Chair Grieco concerning a conversation she'd had with Mr. 
Unobskey. The revised minutes provide additional context about this conversation that is 
helpful to the public, but not necessary under the Open Meeting Law. 
Likewise, both the original and revised executive session minutes of the Committee's 
March 31 executive session provide a sufficient level of detail. The Committee's revisions 
did not add anything substantive to the minutes. Although more detail about the deputy 
superintendent's review of contracts in other towns would have been useful, as written, the 
minutes provide an accurate summary of this review, offering the public an understanding of 
the topics discussed (e.g., salaries, annuities, travel allowances). Accordingly, we find that 
these minutes are sufficiently detailed, and thus the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: George Harris, Esq. 
Way land School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 