===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
October 30, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 139 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Lauren Goldberg, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston MA 02110 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Goldberg: 
This office received a complaint from Owen Murphy on May 26, 2020, alleging that the 
Weston Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 24, and the Board discussed the 
complaint at an April 21 meeting. You responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated June 8.1 
In his complaint, Mr. Murphy alleges that a quorum of the Board deliberated outside of a posted 
meeting via social media. 
 We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
and find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. The Open Meeting 
Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and open to members of the 
public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” 
is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within 
the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a 
“quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id.  
 The Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.” Id. The expression of an opinion by one 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
public body member on matters within the body’s jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a 
deliberation, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 2016-104; OML 2015-
33; OML 2012-73.  
 The Open Meeting Law does not restrict an individual’s right to make comments to the 
general public, including through social media. See OML 2017-111.2 However, if a member of a 
public body were to communicate directly with a quorum of the public body on a matter within 
the public body’s jurisdiction through social media, such communication may violate the Open 
Meeting Law. See OML 2017-192. Posting in a Facebook group that includes a quorum of 
members of a public body is not in and of itself a violation of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 
2018-145, OML 2017-111. However, public body members should use particular care to avoid 
deliberation when writing a post that may be visible to other members of the public body, 
especially in a “closed” Facebook group and in particular if the closed group is relatively small. 
See OML 2018-153. In order to differentiate between social media posts that are directed to the 
public and those that are directed to other members of the public body, we must examine the 
communicator’s intent. See OML 2017-111; OML 2015-15. 
 Here, on February 22, a member of the public started a conversation in a large Weston-
themed Facebook group by posting a newspaper article about a prior Open Meeting Law 
determination. The Facebook group had 2,742 members and many members of the public 
responded to the original post. In response to a constituent’s comment, Selectman Boshart made 
a comment regarding a Weston development project’s effect on abutters. Several members of the 
public raised other concerns about the development project and Selectman Boshart explained his 
views on the matter. Other members of the public raised issues with another development project 
and concerns about the recent Open Meeting Law determination. Selectman Boshart replied to 
these comments regarding prior actions taken by the Board and the content of the Open Meeting 
Law determination. Although these posts by Selectman Boshart related to Board business, the 
posts were clearly directed to members of the public within the large Facebook group, and as no 
other members of the Board responded, we find that these posts did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
 Starting a separate comment thread, and not in response to Selectman Boshart, Selectman 
Houston expressed his enthusiasm for discussing the Open Meeting Law determination as the 
first topic on the Board’s agenda for its next meeting. A member of the public responded that 
sometimes Board meetings run very late. Selectmen Boshart joked in reply that “9:45 is way past 
my bedtime” and Selectman Houston responded “I wish much more than you do (and my family 
wishes even more than I do) that we weren’t having to schedule agenda items so late and that we 
were also able to stay right on schedule.” Even though two Selectmen, a quorum of the Board,  
responded to each other in this exchange, the topic had to do with scheduling of a meeting. We 
find that these comments fall within the Open Meeting Law’s exemption to the definition of 
deliberation for “scheduling information.” See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. We therefore find no violation 
of the Open Meeting Law.  
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah (Chase) Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Owen Murphy (via e-mail:  ) 
 Weston Select Board (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
