===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 16, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 48  
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Gary Howayeck, Esq. 
Assistant Corporation Counsel for the City of Fall River 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Attorney Howayeck: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on October 9, 2020,1 alleging that 
the Fall River Board of Park Commissioners (the “Board”), and specifically Commissioners 
Helen Rego, Jeffrey Silvia, and Victor Farias, violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 9. After receiving an 
extension of time from this office, you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated October 
8. The complaint alleges that 1) Commissioner Rego failed to comply with the certification 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law when appointed to the Board in 2018 and again when 
reappointed in 2020; and 2) Commissioners Silvia and Farias also failed to comply with the 
certification requirements of the Open Meeting Law when reappointed to the Board in 2020.       
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
comply with the certification requirements of the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, and the 
request for further review.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “within 2 weeks of qualification for office, all 
persons serving on a public body shall certify, on a form prescribed by the attorney general, the 
receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, regulations promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a 
 
1 All dates in this determination are in 2020, unless otherwise stated.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
copy of the educational materials prepared by the attorney general explaining the open meeting 
law and its application pursuant to section 19. . . . The certification shall be evidence that the 
member of a public body has read and understands the requirements of the open meeting law and 
the consequences of violating it.” G.L. c. 30A § 20(h). The Open Meeting Law regulations 
further define the educational materials that must be provided, including a copy of each Open 
Meeting Law determination issued to the public body within the last five years in which our 
office found a violation. 940 CMR 29.04(1). Finally, the regulations clarify that “[a]n individual 
serving on multiple public bodies must sign a certification for each public body on which he or 
she serves[,]” and that public body members “must sign a new certification upon reelection or 
reappointment to the public body.” 940 CMR 29.04(4)&(5). 
 
The Board acknowledges that Commissioner Rego failed to comply with the certification 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law when appointed to the Board in 2018. The Board 
explains that although Commissioner Rego did not complete a certification form when appointed 
to the Board in 2018, she had on file with the Clerk a certification form she completed when 
appointed to another public body, the Fall River Traffic Board, in 2016.2 As explained above, 
public body members must sign a certification for each public body on which they serve, and 
must sign a certification upon appointment or reappointment. Therefore, the fact that 
Commissioner Rego had a two-year-old certification on file relating to her appointment to a 
different public body does not absolve her of the obligation to sign a certification in her capacity 
as a member of this Board. 
 
With respect to the 2020 reappointment of Commissioners Rego, Silvia, and Farias, we 
find that all three commissioners violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to complete the 
required certifications within two weeks of reappointment. In response to the complaint, 
Commissioners Rego and Silvia completed the required certification form. We order the 
Commission’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and note that 
future similar violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the law. Where 
Commissioners Rego and Silvia took appropriate remedial action in response to the complaint to 
ensure that the required certificates were completed, we do not order any additional relief. In its 
October 8 response, the Board explained that it was unaware whether Commissioner Farias had 
completed the certification form, but that it would supplement its response once it received 
notice that Commissioner Farias had completed the form. To date, the Board has not informed 
our office that Commissioner Farias has completed the certification form and so it is our 
understanding that Commissioner Farias has not yet completed the certification form. Therefore, 
we order Commissioner Farias to complete the certification form and file it with the City Clerk 
within 30 days of the date of this letter. Finally, we reject the Complainant’s request that we 
impose a $1,000 civil penalty.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
2 The complaint raises allegations regarding the timeliness of Commissioner Rego’s certification with respect to her 
appointment to the Traffic Board. This complaint was filed with the Board of Park Commissioners only and we 
therefore decline to review any allegations pertaining to a separate public body.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Joseph DaSilva, Chair (via email:   
Patrick Higgins (via e-mail:  
  
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
