===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200
(617) 727-4765 TTY
www.mass.gov/ago
April 30, 2021
OML 2021 – 61 
Michael Dennis, Chair 
Wachusett Regional School District 
Committee 1745 Main Street 
Jefferson, MA 01522 
By email only:  
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Weeks: 
This office received a complaint from Matthew Lavoie on October 23, 2020, alleging that 
the Wachusett Regional School District Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 1  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee 
on August 12, and the Committee responded by letter dated August 25.  In his complaint, Mr. 
Lavoie alleges that Committee member Krista Bennett violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating by email outside of a posted meeting on August 11.   
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged.  In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s 
response, and the request for further review.  We also reviewed the minutes of the Committee’s 
August 10 meeting as well as the August 11 email chain that is the subject of the complaint. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows.  The complainant, Matthew Lavoie, is a member of the 
Committee.  The Committee met in open session on August 10.  At that meeting, Superintendent 
Darryll McCall presented a proposed 2020-2021 school reopening plan, which resulted in 
1 Unless otherwise stated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 

===PAGE 2===
extensive discussion among the Committee.  At one point a Committee member asked 
Superintendent McCall whether the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education 
(“DESE”) had provided feedback on the preliminary reopening plan.  Superintendent McCall 
responded that a representative from DESE called that day and that he would return the call and 
report back to the Committee. 
The following day, August 11, Superintendent McCall spoke with a representative of 
DESE.  Thereafter, he emailed the Committee with a brief report of his discussion, and conveyed 
that he had highlighted information from the updated reopening plan that the Committee had 
approved the night before, and the DESE representative stated the plan was satisfactory.  In 
response, Committee member Krista Bennett replied to the Superintendent and the Committee, 
“[t]his is great, thank you!”  Mr. Lavoie then filed the instant Open Meeting Law complaint, 
asserting that Ms. Bennett’s email constituted unlawful deliberation outside of an open meeting.   
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Commission 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.  
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  The law defines a “meeting” as “a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  A 
“deliberation” is defined as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of other 
procedural meeting (sic) or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a 
meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  Communication on matters 
within a public body's jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is deliberation, even if no other 
public body member responds.  See OML 2016-18.2 
The complaint alleges that Committee member Bennett improperly deliberated by email 
when she replied to the Superintendent’s August 11 email, and included the full Committee, 
stating “[T]his is great, thank you!”  The Committee responds that Member Bennett was a newly 
elected Committee member, the violation was de minimis, and that Member Bennett would be 
trained on the requirements of the Open Meeting Law.  We find that because the email response 
reached a quorum of the Committee on a matter within the Committee’s jurisdiction, the email 
constituted deliberation outside of a posted meeting, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  We 
recognize that this particular, and very brief, email communication may have been construed as 
merely an acknowledgment that DESE found satisfactory a plan the Committee had already 
approved, or could have been construed as conveying the member’s own view on the matter.  
See, e.g., OML 2018-118 (finding a violation of the Open Meeting Law when public body 
members responded to a group text message initiated by a constituent but that included a quorum 
of the public body with a “thumbs up” emoji and the statement “I Agree”).  Nonetheless, the 
Open Meeting Law’s definition of “deliberation” is very broad, and therefore public body 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
members should use email to communicate among a quorum only for the limited purposes that 
are excluded from the Law’s definition of “deliberation,” such as distribution of a meeting 
agenda, scheduling information, or distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at 
a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.  We also note that a response to 
the Superintendent only, and not to a quorum of the Committee, would have been permissible. 3 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by deliberating by email outside of a posted meeting.  We order the Committee’s immediate and 
future compliance, and we caution the Committee that future similar violations may be 
considered evidence of an intentional violation of the law.  In addition, we order the public 
release of the email communication addressed in this letter.4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Matthew Lavoie (by email:  
 Wachusett Regional School District Committee (by email:  
 
 
 
 
 
3 In his request for review of this Open Meeting Law complaint, Mr. Lavoie asserts that the Committee failed to 
review his complaint in a fair and unbiased manner, and that multiple Committee members slandered him in the 
course of the discussion.  Although our office encourages civility among public body members, these assertions are 
outside the scope of the Open Meeting Law.   
4 The Committee may publicly release the e-mail by reading its content during a meeting and listing the e-mail in 
the meeting minutes, or by referencing the email during a meeting and posting the e-mail along with the minutes on 
the Committee’s website. 

===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 