===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
February 10, 2014 
OML 2014-12 
Joslin Murphy, Esq. 
Associate Town Counsel 
333 Washington Street 
Brookline, MA 02445 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Murphy: 
This office received a complaint from Scott Murphy, dated June 6, 2013, alleging that the 
Runkle School Council (the "Council") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 18-25. 
Mr. Murphy's complaint alleges that at its March 7, 2013 meeting, the Council (1) did not hold a 
meeting that was open to the public; (2) failed to inform attendees that the meeting was being 
recorded; (3) failed to maintain adequate, accurate meeting minutes; (4) failed to include in its 
minutes a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting; and (5) failed to post its 
minutes online within ten days of the meeting. The complaint was filed with the Council on or 
about April 5, 2013. The Council responded by letter dated May 3, 2013, following an April 12, 
2013 request to the Complainant for further information related to his complaint. 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
during its March 7, 2013 meeting because (1) the meeting was open to the public; (2) there is 
insufficient evidence to prove that the Council failed to inform attendees that the meeting was 
being recorded; (3) the Council maintained adequate, accurate meeting minutes; (4) the Council 
included the documents and exhibits used at the meeting in its minutes; and (5) the Council is not 
required to post its minutes online within ten days of the meeting. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Council on April 5, 2013; the Council's 
May 3, 2013 response; the June 6, 2013 complaint filed with our office; and the minutes from the 
Council's March 7, 2013 meeting. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
On February 15, 2013, a No Trespass Order was issued by the John D. Runkle School 
(the School) against the Complainant prohibiting him from entering School premises. On March 
7, 2013, the Council met in open session at the School while the No Trespass Order was in 
effect. 
The Complainant's son attended the meeting and informed the Council that he was video 
recording. The Council contends that the Co-Chair announced that the Complainant's son was 
recording at the outset of the meeting. This announcement is not recorded in the meeting 
minutes. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Council's March 7, 2013 Meeting was Open to the Public. 
The Complainant alleges that the Council's March 7, 2013 meeting was not open to the 
public because he was prohibited from attending. The Open Meeting Law requires that, except 
when meeting in executive session, all meetings of public bodies must be open to the public. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). The Council's March 7, 2013 meeting was conducted in open session. 
That the Complainant personally could not attend the meeting because a No Trespass Order 
prohibited him from attending does not mean that the meeting was closed to the public. The 
Council met its obligation of noticing its meeting and convening in a location that was open and 
accessible to members of the public. Therefore, the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
2. We are Unable to Resolve the Allegation that the Council Failed to Inform 
Attendees that its March 7. 2013 Meeting was being Recorded. 
The Complainant alleges that the Council failed to inform attendees that the March 7, 
2013 meeting was being recorded. The Open Meeting Law requires that "[a]fter notifying the 
chair of the public body, any person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a 
meeting... subject to reasonable requirements of the chair as to the number, placement and 
operation of equipment used so as not to interfere with the conduct of the meeting." G.L. c. 3 OA, 
§ 20(e). If a public body chair is aware that an audio or video recording is being made, he or she 
must inform other attendees of that fact at the start of each meeting that is being recorded. Id 
The Council contends that the Co-Chair informed the public in attendance at the March 7, 
2013 meeting that the Complainant's son was recording the meeting, but no such statement is 
recorded in the minutes. The Complainant alleges that the Council failed to make this 
announcement, but has not been able to provide our office with a copy of an audio recording that 
could confirm this.1 Because we have not been presented with evidence to support either version 
of the events that occurred, we are unable to resolve this allegation. We remind the Council that 
the chair must inform meeting attendees at the beginning of the meeting of any recordings of 
which he is aware. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(e). 
1 We requested the audio recording from the Complainant on January 2, 2014 and followed up on January 9, 2014. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
3. The Councirs March 7. 2013 Meeting Minutes are Sufficiently Detailed. 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to "create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). While minutes must include a summary of the 
discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include 
every remark or opinion presented. See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55.2 When reviewing 
minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the 
accuracy requirement. For substantial compliance, the minutes should contain enough detail and 
accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes 
and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See id. 
The minutes of the Council's March 7, 2013 meeting provide enough detail of the 
proceeding such that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the 
minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. The Complainant does not identify 
any specific deficiency in the minutes. Therefore, we find that the Council maintained adequate 
minutes for its March 7, 2013 meeting. 
4. The Council Listed in its Minutes the Documents or Exhibits Used at its March 7. 
2013 Meeting. 
All documents and exhibits used during a meeting of a public body must be listed in the 
minutes.3 G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The Open Meeting Law does not define what it means for a 
document to be used at a meeting but, at a minimum, it is clear that where a document is 
physically present, verbally identified, and the contents are discussed by the members of a public 
body during an open session meeting, it has been "used" for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. 
See OML 2012-42. 
There is no indication in the minutes from the Council's March 7, 2013 meeting that any 
documents or exhibits were used that were not listed in the minutes. The Complainant does not 
identify any documents or exhibits that he alleges were used but not listed in the meeting 
minutes, and has not been able to provide our office with a recording of the meeting that could 
potentially substantiate his allegation. We therefore find that the Council complied with the 
law's requirements in this regard. 
5. The Council is not Required to Post Minutes Online within Ten Days of a Meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that the "[mjinutes of all open sessions shall be created 
and approved in a timely manner." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). Furthermore, the law requires that 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 For purposes of clarity, we recommend that public bodies include in their minutes a distinct list of the documents 
or exhibits used during the meeting, rather than rely on listings of or references to documents throughout the body of 
the minutes. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
meeting minutes be provided within certain time frames following a request. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
22(c), 22(g)(2). There is no requirement that meeting minutes be posted online at all, let alone 
within ten days of the meeting. The Council therefore did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
not doing so. Additionally, we note that, although not required by law, the Council did post 
minutes from its March 7, 2013 meeting online on March 18, 2013, eleven days after the 
meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this 
determination, please contact our office at (617) 963-2540. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Runkle School Council 
Scott Murphy 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 