===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
July 30, 2012 
OML 2012 — 71 
John J. Clifford, Esq. 
76 North Bedford Street 
East Bridgewater, MA 02333 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Clifford: 
This office received a complaint from Susan Munford dated March 15, 2012, alleging 
that the Kingston Board of Selectmen (the "Board") and Town Administrator James Thomas 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with 
the Board on or about February 29, 2012, and you responded on behalf of the Board to the 
original complaint by letter dated March 9, 2012. In her complaint, Ms. Munford alleges that the 
Board failed to disclose in the notice of its February 24, 2012 meeting ("the meeting") that it 
would be discussing taking disciplinary action against her. Specifically, Ms. Munford alleges 
that during the executive session of the meeting, Town Administrator Thomas "brought [her] 
name up and wanted to have [her] disciplined." 1  Ms. Munford further alleges that the Board 
improperly denied her request for the minutes of that meeting. 
We reviewed the February 29, 2012 complaint filed with the Board; your March 9, 2012 
response to the complaint on behalf of the Board; the March 15, 2012 complaint filed with our 
office which included, among other things, a copy of the revised meeting agenda and a February 
29, 2012 email from Nancy Howlett, Assistant to the Board, to Ms. Munford. We also reviewed 
a copy of the Board's draft minutes from the meeting and a February 24, 2012 letter that the 
Board sent to union representatives following the meeting. Finally, we reviewed, in camera, a 
draft of the executive session minutes from the meeting and a draft of the same minutes 
reflecting Selectwoman Sandra MacFarlane's revisions. We note that during a conversation with 
you on June 27, 2012, you stated that the Board had not yet voted on whether to approve either 
draft of the minutes, and that the executive session minutes have not been publicly released. 2  
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing a topic in executive session that did not fall within any of the ten permissible purposes 
Town Administrator Thomas is an individual public employee who is not a member of a public body, thus he was 
not required to comply with the Open Meeting Law and could not have violated it. We therefore decline to review 
the allegations against him and only consider his actions to the extent they relate to the complaint against the Board. 
2  For the sake of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
0 
===PAGE 2===
for executive session. We note that the Board attempted to cure the violation by promptly 
ceasing its discussion of the improper topic. In order to entirely cure the violation, however, the 
Board should have reconvened in open session and disclosed the details of the improper 
discussion. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. On February 
22, 2012, the Board filed with the Kingston Town Clerk a revised agenda for a meeting 
scheduled to be held on February 24, 2012. The agenda was revised to reflect that there would 
be a discussion held in open session about "Other Business," although specific discussion topics 
were not outlined on the agenda. The agenda also stated that the Board would hold an executive 
session "to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining" with five unions, which were 
identified by name, and that the chair declared that an open meeting "may have a detrimental 
effect on the bargaining position of the body." 
On February 24, 2012, the Board convened a meeting in open session. The Chair of the 
Board then announced they were going into executive session "to discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining" with the five unions, which he again identified by name, and that an open 
meeting "may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the body and would only 
return to open session to adjourn the meeting." The Board properly entered into executive 
session and, at the end of the discussion concerning collective bargaining, Town Administrator 
Thomas requested that the Board provide clarification on whether an employee may attend a 
Board meeting in uniform for one and a half hours. Town Administrator Thomas stated that he 
had discussed with Selectwoman MacFarlane the night before how this issue would be handled 
in the Town of Hanover, where she is a Town employee. Selectwoman MacFarlane then stated 
to the Board that, in Hanover, the matter would be "handled by the Chief." According to 
Selectwoman MacFarlane's revised draft of the executive session minutes, she then asked 
Attorney John Clifford, who is Labor Counsel for Kingston, whether "such a discussion wasn't 
crossing the line at this point." Attorney Clifford advised the Board that the topic was 
inappropriate for executive session. The executive session promptly ended and the Board 
reconvened in open session, but did not resume or summarize its discussion of this topic during 
the open session. 
On February 29, 2012, the complainant sent an email to Ms. Nancy Howlett, Assistant to 
the Town Administrator and the Board, requesting a copy of the minutes from the executive 
session meeting during which the Board discussed the February 15, 2012 letter from the five 
unions concerning the collective bargaining process. 3  Ms. Howlett responded to the email, with 
a copy to the Board, advising Ms. Munford that the minutes from the meeting were not prepared 
yet, but that only the open session minutes would be released until collective bargaining 
negotiations were concluded. The Board had not conducted its own review of the minutes at that 
time, however Attorney Clifford's response to this complaint on behalf of the Board stated that 
the executive session minutes were being withheld from disclosure at that time because the 
purpose for entering into executive session remained open, therefore their disclosure would 
defeat the legal purpose for the meeting. Once the executive session purpose expired, he stated, 
3  Ms. Munford misstated in her email the date of the meeting at issue; she requested minutes from a February 17, 
2012 meeting but was, in fact, referring to the February 24, 2012 meeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
the Board would release the minutes. As of July 13, 2012, the Board had not yet conducted a 
review of the minutes to determine whether they should be released. 
On July 5, 2012, during a conversation with our office, Attorney Clifford stated that he 
and Town Counsel Jay Talerman plan to conduct a training "soon" for the Board on its 
obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20-21. Public bodies may enter a closed, 
executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, provided that 
the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for the executive session, 
"stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the 
executive session was called." Id. at § 21(b)(3). 
One permissible reason for executive session is Purpose 1, "[t]o discuss the reputation, 
character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an 
individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, 
a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." Id. at § 21(a)(1). If a public body enters 
executive session under Purpose 1, the individual discussed in the session must be notified in 
writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session and afforded 
certain other rights. Id. The complainant alleges that the Board met in executive session to 
discuss disciplining her without providing prior notice. The Board did not cite Purpose 1 as the 
reason for its executive session on February 24, 2012, however, and the meeting minutes show 
that the Board did not discuss the discipline of an individual, or even identify any specific 
individual, during that meeting. We therefore find that the Board was not required to afford the 
complainant the rights guaranteed under Purpose 1. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). 
Another permissible reason for executive session, and the one that was cited by the Board 
prior to entering executive session on February 24, 2012, is Purpose 3, "R]o discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." Id. at § 
21(a)(3). During the February 24, 2012 meeting, the Chair properly announced in open session 
that the Board would convene in executive session under Purpose 3. The Board followed the 
Open Meeting Law requirements for entering into executive session, including approving the 
executive session by roll call vote and announcing whether the Board would reconvene in open 
session following the executive session. Furthermore, based on our review of the draft executive 
session minutes, it appears that, with the exception of the matter raised by Town Administrator 
Thomas at the end of the meeting, the Board's discussion generally fit within the parameters of 
executive session Purpose 3. The discussion about whether an employee may attend a meeting 
in uniform did not fall within any of the ten enumerated purposes for executive session, however, 
and was not appropriate for discussion behind closed doors. Selectwoman MacFarlane acted 
appropriately by halting the conversation and asking Attorney Clifford whether the topic was 
appropriate for discussion, and the Board acted appropriately by promptly ending the discussion 
and reconvening in open session. The Board did not disclose the details of the improper 
discussion in open session, however, thus we find that it did not fully cure this violation of the 
Open Meeting Law. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
We next address the complainant's allegation that the Board improperly failed to produce 
the minutes from this meeting following her request. In response to the complainant's request, 
the Board's assistant stated that the minutes would not be released until the collective bargaining 
negotiations had concluded. The Board's response to the complaint also stated that the executive 
session purpose justified continued confidentiality of those minutes as of that date (March 9, 
2012). We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law allows a public body to withhold 
executive session meeting minutes only as long as disclosure of such minutes would defeat the 
lawful purpose for the executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). Once the purpose for the 
executive session has been served, the public body is required to release those minutes. Id. 
Public bodies must therefore review their executive session minutes periodically to determine 
whether or not continued non-disclosure is warranted. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). Such 
determination must be announced at the Board's next open meeting following the review, and 
must be included in the meeting minutes. Id. The burden of justifying continued nondisclosure 
of executive session minutes lies with the public body. Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham Regional  
School Committee,  402 Mass. 179, 184 (1988). As of July 13, 2012, although Attorney Clifford 
asserted that the executive session purpose justified nondisclosure, the Board had not yet 
conducted a review of the executive session minutes to determine whether they should be 
released. We therefore order the Board, within thirty (30) days of receipt of this letter, to 
conduct a review of the February 24, 2012 executive session minutes to determine whether all or 
part of those minutes can be released, and to publicly announce its determination during an open 
session meeting. 
Finally, although not raised by the complainant, we note that a topic on the agenda, listed 
as "Other Business," appears to have contained insufficient detail for a meeting notice under the 
Open Meeting Law. A public body must post notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting and 
include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." 
G.L. c. 20, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 
CMR 29.03. We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable 
member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public 
body's discussion. See OML 2011-44. During its discussion of "Other Business," according to 
the draft meeting minutes, the Board took action on three topics, including the installment of a 
Verizon utility pole to service a wind turbine, Selectman Mark Beaton's request to send a letter 
of support on the Board's letterhead, and approval to appoint special counsel for a bankruptcy 
proceeding involving the Town. To the extent that any of these topics were anticipated before 
the meeting, the meeting notice should have stated that they would be discussed. 4  Boilerplate 
topics such as "Other Business" should be avoided, because they do not give the public sufficient 
notice of the specific topics that will be discussed at that particular meeting. 
4  A public body may consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice if it is a topic that the 
chair did not reasonably anticipate at least 48 hours before the meeting. See OML 2011-13. However, public 
bodies are encouraged not to discuss or vote on items that arise after notice is posted for a meeting, particularly 
when the topic is controversial in nature, if the discussion can be postponed until a later date and added to a properly 
posted meeting notice. Id. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing a topic in executive session that did not fall within any of the ten permissible purposes 
for executive session. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, 
and caution that future similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
Law. In addition, we order the Board to review the minutes from the executive session and: (1) 
release all portions that were not appropriate for discussion under executive session Purpose 3, 
unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies; (2) 
determine whether continued non-disclosure of the portions of the discussion that were 
appropriate under Purpose 3 is warranted, and publicly announce that determination during an 
open session meeting. Both aspects of this review must occur within thirty (30) days of 
receiving this determination. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this 
letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Susan Munford 
Kingston Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
5 