===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
November 16, 2021 
 
OML 2021 - 163 
 
 
Francesse Canty, Esq. 
Director of Human Resources 
Everett School Committee 
337 Broadway 
Everett, MA 02149 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Canty: 
 
This determination addresses seven complaints from Steven Fitzgerald alleging that the 
Everett School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  In total, Mr. Fitzgerald has filed approximately 80 separate Open Meeting Law 
complaints with public bodies in Everett over the past year.  All of the complaints addressed 
herein are dated July 21
1, and allege that the Committee failed to timely respond to prior Open 
Meeting Law complaints that Mr. Fitzgerald had filed with the Committee. 2 3   
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaints, the Committee’s responses to the complaints, and the 
complaints filed with our office requesting further review.  We find that the Committee violated 
the Open Meeting Law.   
 
The Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law Regulations 
require that, within 14 business days after receiving a complaint, a public body must meet to 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 
2 Because of the volume of complaints that Mr. Fitzgerald has filed with the Everett School Committee and other 
public bodies in Everett, many on the same date and/or raising similar allegations, we have numbered the complaints 
for tracking purposes.  This determination addresses complaints 61, 62, 64, 65, 66, 67, and 69. 
3 One member of the Committee is an employee of the Attorney General’s Office.  The complaints contain no 
allegations that are specific to the actions of that individual, and that individual played no role in this office’s 
consideration of the complaints. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the 
complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23; 940 
CMR 29.05(5).  The public body shall simultaneously provide the Attorney General with a copy 
of the complaint, the response, and a description of any remedial action taken. 940 CMR 
29.05(5).  However, “[t]he attorney general may authorize an extension of time to the public 
body for the purpose of taking remedial action upon the written request of the public body and a 
showing of good cause to grant the extension.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). 
 
Each of the seven complaints addressed herein was filed with the Committee on July 21, 
and alleges that the Committee failed to timely respond to a previous complaint that Mr. 
Fitzgerald had filed with the Committee.  The seven underlying complaints were filed with the 
Committee on or around April 27, 28, and 30, and May 7 (four complaints).     
 
The Committee had requested and been granted multiple extensions of time to respond to 
the seven prior complaints, in accordance with the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney 
General’s regulations.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(b).  The final extension 
established a deadline of July 20 for the Committee to respond to the seven prior complaints; the 
Committee did not request or receive any further extension of time.  Although the Committee 
reviewed and discussed the seven prior complaints during a meeting on July 19, the Committee 
did not send its response to the complaints to Mr. Fitzgerald or to this office until July 24.  
Therefore, the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to respond to the seven 
prior complaints within 14 business days, or within the time allotted pursuant to an extension 
granted by this office. 
 
Although we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law, we are cognizant 
that Mr. Fitzgerald’s numerous Open Meeting Law complaints, many of which allege the same 
or similar issues and many of which are meritless, have imposed a significant burden on the 
Committee and staff members at a time when the Committee was focused on the education of 
thousands of schoolchildren during a pandemic and justifiably prioritized other matters.  We also 
note that the Committee did respond to the complaints, albeit a few days late.  Filing seven 
additional complaints that further consume the Committee’s and our office’s resources does not 
advance the transparency goals of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to timely respond to Open Meeting Law complaints.  We order the Committee’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaints 
addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address any other 
complaints that may be pending with the Committee or with our office.  Please feel free to 
contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Steven Fitzgerald (via e-mail:  
 F
rank Parker, Chair, Everett School Committee (via e -mail:  
 Priya Tahiliani, Superintendent, Everett Public Schools (via e- mail: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
T
his determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
