===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
November 29, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 169 
 
 
Mallory Aronstein 
Town Administrator  
Swansea Town Hall 
81 Main Street 
Swansea, MA 02777 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Aronstein: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on September 10, 2021, alleging 
that the Swansea Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 25, and you 
responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated September 10.  The complaint 
alleges that several topics listed on the notice for the Board meeting held on August 24 were 
insufficiently detailed and that the Board failed to timely approve executive session minutes of a 
meeting held on May 25.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to include sufficient detail with respect to one open session topic listed on the August 24 meeting 
notice and by failing to timely approve the executive session minutes of the May 25 meeting.  
We find that the Board’s failure to timely approve the executive session minutes was an 
intentional violation of the Open Meeting Law.  We find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law in the other ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review.  In addition, we reviewed the notice and minutes of the Board meeting 
held on August 10, the notice and open and executive session minutes of the Board meeting held 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
on August 24, as well as a video recording of that meeting.2  Finally, we communicated with the 
complainant on October 29, and with you on November 5. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On August 20, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be 
held on August 24.  The notice listed 12 topics, including a Discussion/Update from the 
Highway Department, Special Town Meeting – Review Proposed Warrant Articles, and an 
executive session to consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property under 
Purpose 6, as well as to review and approve the executive session minutes of the Board’s May 25 
meeting.3  Specifically, the executive session topics were listed as follows: “M.G.L.c30A, 
§21(6): to consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares 
that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiation position of the public 
body: Map 60, Lot 77, South Street” and “M.G.L.c30a, §22(f): For the purpose of Review and 
Approval of Executive Session Minutes: May 26, 2021.”  In addition, the topic heading for the 
Discussion/Update from the Highway Department listed four subheadings that further advised 
the public of the topics to be discussed, which included Private Ways, High Hill Subdivision/ 
Nike Site Road, Access to Waterways, and Cummings Road.   
 
The August 24 meeting was held as planned.  During the meeting, the Board recognized 
two Boy Scouts for their work at the Swansea Animal Shelter, accepted the retirement of a 
Police Officer and approved the promotion of another Police Officer, and agreed to apply for 
state reimbursement for street paving.  The Board then received updates from the Highway 
Director who discussed private ways that are being maintained by the Town, the baseball field at 
the old Nike Site Facility and the unsafe condition of a building on that site, access to waterways, 
and repairs to Cummings Road.  The Board then reviewed the proposed warrant for the Special 
Town Meeting in November and briefly discussed certain of the articles, including those for 
police body cameras, Marijuana overlay, and the Town Hall project.  The majority of the 
discussion focused on the warrant article relating to the expansion of the Library and the Board 
heard from the Library Director and the Chair of the Library Building Committee, who were 
present at the meeting. 
 
Finally, after discussing the remaining open session topics, the Chair announced that the 
Board would convene in executive session and read the two topics as they were listed on the 
notice.  The Board unanimously voted by roll call to enter into executive session pursuant to 
Purpose 6 and to approve one set of executive session meeting minutes.  During the executive 
session, the Board discussed purchasing a particular piece of property and approved but did not 
release the executive session minutes of the meeting held on May 25.  
 
 
 
2 A video recording of the Board meeting held on August 24 is available at: 
https://vimeo.com/channels/1046679/page:2. 
3 The notice indicated that the Board would review the executive session minutes of a meeting held on May 26.  In 
fact, the Board did not meet on May 26; rather, it held a meeting on May 25 in which it convened in executive 
session.  We caution the Board to review the notice before posting to ensure that the listed topics accurately reflect 
the anticipated discussions. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, and 
include the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a “a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The list of topics 
shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35.4 
 
I. The August 24 Meeting Notice Did Not Lack Sufficient Detail with 
Respect to the Executive Session Topics but Did Lack Sufficient Detail 
with Respect to One Open Session Topic.  
 
A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that 
a majority of members have voted by roll call to go into executive session, and the chair has 
publicly announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive 
session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.  Executive session topics must be 
described, both in the meeting notice and in an announcement during open session, in as much 
detail as possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.  
See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of 
Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in 
executive session is necessary ... because that is the only notification given the public that a 
[public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the 
reason for doing so was proper or improper”). 
 
The complaint alleges that the notice of the August 24 meeting was insufficiently detailed 
with respect to the anticipated executive session topics because the notice failed to accurately 
identify the two specific executive session purposes that the Board would be convening under.   
We agree that the Board incorrectly referenced the Open Meeting Law statute both on the notice 
and in the verbal statement prior to entering executive session under Purpose 6 by referring to the 
relevant section as G.L. c. 30A, §21(6), instead of G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(6).  However, we find that 
the additional detail included on the notice accurately identified the executive session purpose 
where it precisely tracked the language of Purpose 6, which was to consider the purchase, 
exchange, lease or value of real property, and the Board’s discussions related to the purchase of a 
particular piece of property.  A public body need not specifically identify the statutory purpose 
for the executive session, as long as the topic makes clear which of the ten executive session 
purposes the public body is invoking.  See OML 2019-163; OML 2017-7. 
 
With respect to the Board’s review of one set of executive session minutes during the 
August 24 meeting, we find that this topic was sufficiently detailed.  Although the notice did not 
identify a specific executive session purpose, the notice listed the topic with sufficient 
information to advise the public of the discussions to occur, which was the review and approval 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
of the executive session minutes of the Board meeting held on May 25.  We have stated that 
public bodies may enter into executive session under Purpose 7 to review executive session 
minutes and that the governing law for that purpose is the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2019-
81; OML 2013-199.  Although the Board did not specifically identify Purpose 7 as the specific 
executive session purpose that it would convene under, it did identify the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §22(f), as the statute that allowed it to review such minutes.5  We recommend that 
the Board utilize Purpose 7 in the future if it plans to review and approve executive session 
meeting minutes in executive session. 
 
We next consider whether two open session topics were, as the complaint alleges, 
insufficiently detailed.  First, the complaint alleges that the topic listed as “High Hill 
Subdivision/Nike Site Road” was insufficient because the Board did not discuss the High Hill 
Subdivision.  The Board admits that the notice “features an error” with respect to this topic and 
the topic should have been listed as “Nike Site Road Building.”  We agree and find that this open 
session topic was insufficient as it failed to provide the public with a sufficient understanding of 
the anticipated discussion.  See OML 2018-60.   
 
Second, the complaint alleges that the topic listed as “Special Town Meeting – Review 
Proposed Warrant Articles” did not include the specific proposed articles that the Board planned 
to discuss.  The Board states that it planned to continue its discussion of all proposed warrant 
articles that it initially discussed during its August 10 meeting.  Where a public body anticipates 
discussing specific budget items or Town Meeting warrant articles, it must specifically list them 
in its meeting notice.  See OML 2011-7.  However, where a public body is reviewing all articles 
for a Town Meeting warrant, it is not required to identify all warrant articles on its meeting 
notice.  See OML 2012-83.  Although the Board spent a majority of time discussing the article 
related to the Library, we find that this discussion was in fact one of several warrant articles that 
the Board discussed during the August 24 meeting and that the totality of the discussions during 
the meeting focused on the town warrant as a whole.  As such, we find that the notice for this 
meeting was sufficiently specific because it informed the public that the Board would be 
generally reviewing the special town meeting warrant and reflected the actual discussions held 
during the meeting.  See OML 2021-154; OML 2013-8.   
 
II. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Timely Approve 
the Executive Session Minutes of its May 25 Meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to create and approve meeting minutes, 
whether for open or executive session, in a timely manner.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  “Timely 
manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is 
later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.”  940 CMR 29.11; see OML 
2018-48.  Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next 
meeting.  See OML 2018-67; OML 2017-133.  
 
5 G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f) states, in relevant part, that the minutes of any executive session, the notes, recordings or other 
materials used in the preparation of such minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety as 
long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.  When the purpose for 
which a valid executive session was held has been served, the minutes, preparatory materials and documents of the 
session shall be disclosed. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Approval of executive session minutes is a separate and unrelated obligation from the 
requirement that executive session minutes be periodically reviewed to determine whether they 
should be released to the public.  See OML 2019-115.  This initial approval of executive session 
minutes is to approve the minutes as an accurate record of what occurred at a particular executive 
session and does not mean that the minutes are approved for release to the public.   
 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to timely approve the executive session 
minutes of the Board’s May 25 meeting.  The Board held six meetings between May 25 and 
when it approved the executive session minutes on August 24.  The Board maintains that it 
approved the May 25 executive session minutes in a timely manner because those minutes were 
approved within the next three executive session meetings and suggests that because the Open 
Meeting Law allows a public body to withhold executive session minutes until the purpose for 
confidentiality has passed, executive session minutes can only be approved during an executive 
session.  The Open Meeting Law regulations refer to timely approval as being within the next 
three “public body meetings,” not within the next three meetings at which a public body chooses 
to enter executive session.  940 CMR 29.11(2); see also OML 2020-135.  Moreover, the Open 
Meeting Law and regulations do not distinguish between “regular” meetings and other types of 
meetings such as workshops or public hearings, for purposes of timely approval of minutes.  See 
OML 2017-103 (public body should have created complete minutes for its “workshop” meetings 
because topics discussed were matters within the public body's jurisdiction); OML 2019-115 (no 
exception for “single topic” meetings or meetings not “normally scheduled”).  As such, because 
the Board did not approve its May 25 executive session minutes until August 24, its seventh 
meeting and more than 30 days thereafter, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to approve the minutes in a timely manner.   
 
We note that the Open Meeting Law does not specify how meeting minutes must be 
approved.  This means that public bodies may approve meeting minutes in a variety of ways.  
For example, a public body may delegate authority to a single person, such as the chair, to 
approve the minutes; approve the minutes through a consent agenda; or distribute the minutes in 
advance by email and state that they will be deemed approved as of the date of the next meeting 
unless someone advises the chair they wish to discuss them at the next meeting.  See AGO FAQ 
on Meeting Minutes.6  Further, we have stated that a public body did not waive the right to 
withhold executive session minutes merely because the body reviewed and edited the minutes in 
an open session.  See OML 2018-73. 
 
We must now determine whether this violation was, as the complainant urges, an 
intentional one.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a 
public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 
29.02.  An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate 
ignorance of the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates 
the Open Meeting Law.  Id.  The Board was previously found in violation of the Open Meeting 
Law for failure to approve executive session meeting minutes in a timely manner.  See OML 
2019-115.  In that determination, we recognized that the Board was confused about its obligation 
to approve executive session minutes in a timely manner, mistakenly believing that its only 
 
6 Available at https://www.mass.gov/info-details/frequently-asked-questions-about-the-open-meeting-
law#frequently-asked-questions-about-meeting-minutes-. 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
obligation with regard to executive session minutes was to review such minutes at reasonable 
intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure was warranted.  We are concerned that the 
Board still appears to misunderstand its obligations with respect to timely approving executive 
session minutes even though we specifically advised the Board in 2019 that public bodies have 
an obligation to approve executive session minutes in a timely manner just as they do for open 
session minutes.  See OML 2019-115.  Because the Board had previously been advised that the 
failure to approve executive session minutes within the next 3 meetings or 30 days, whichever is 
longer, violates the Open Meeting Law, we find that this violation is intentional.  See G.L. c. 
30A, § 18; 940 CMR 29.02; OML 2013-63.  Although we decline to recommend the imposition 
of a fine in this instance, we caution the Board that a future finding of an intentional violation of 
the Open Meeting Law may result in a civil penalty of up to $1,000 per intentional violation. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to provide the public with a sufficient understanding of the Nike Site Road Building open 
session topic.  Further, we find that the Board did not approve the executive session minutes of 
its May 25 meeting in a timely manner.  We find that the Board’s failure to timely approve the 
executive session minutes was an intentional violation of the law.  We order the Board’s 
immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements and caution the Board that a future 
finding of an intentional violation of the Open Meeting Law may result in a civil penalty of up to 
$1,000 per violation.  In addition, we order all members of the Board to attend a webinar training 
on the Open Meeting Law conducted by our office within the next 90 days. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins – By email only:  
Swansea Board of Selectmen c/o Chair Derek Heim – By email only: 
  
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
