===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 21, 2017 
OML 2017-44 
Blair Bailey, Esq. 
Rochester Town Counsel 
1 Constitution Way 
Rochester, MA 02770 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Bailey: 
This office received two complaints from Cathy Mendoza on October 11, alleging 
that the Rochester Zoning Board of Appeals (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaints were originally filed with the Board on or about 
September 14 and 15, respectively, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter 
dated October 4.2 In her September 14 complaint, Ms. Mendoza alleges that the Board 
deliberated during an unnoticed site inspection. In her September 15 complaint, Ms. 
Mendoza alleges that Town Counsel suppressed public discussion of a particular item 
during the Board's August 15 meeting.3 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating during an on-site inspection. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint, the Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our 
office requesting further review. We also reviewed portions of the video-recordings of the 
Board meetings held on August 25; September 8; and September 22. Finally, we 
interviewed the following Board members: David Arancio on January 11, 2017; Chair 
Richard Cutler on January 10, 2017; Kirby Gilmore on January 18, 2017; and Davis 
Sullivan on January 10, 2017. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will respond to you in the third person hereafter. 
3 Even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The law provides, "No person shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, 
and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). We therefore decline to 
review this complaint. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum. During the summer of 2016, the Board held several 
hearings regarding the Wellspring Farm Learning Center, a therapeutic facility located in a 
residential zone in Rochester, following the Town Zoning Enforcement Officer's 
complaint to the Board about Wellspring Farm's lack of a zoning variance. Abutters had 
also expressed concerns about Wellspring Farm to the Zoning Enforcement Officer and to 
the Board. The Board held a hearing on August 25 concerning those complaints. 
The next day, Chair Cutler and Board Members Arancio, Gilmore and Sullivan 
together visited Wellspring Farm to inspect the property. The Board did not post notice of 
the visit. The purpose of the visit was to understand the layout of the property, determine 
the boundaries and view certain areas of the property that had caused contention with the 
abutters. The property owners led the four Board members around the property for 
approximately 45 minutes. Board members asked questions of the property owners, such 
as the locations of the swimming pool and certain property boundaries. Apart from the 
questions and comments directed to the property owners, the Board did not discuss any 
matters among themselves during the visit. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School 
Commission of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive 
session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." 
G.L, c. 30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public 
body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' 
shall not include the distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports 
or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed." Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple 
majority of the member of the public body. IcL 
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board deliberated during an on-site 
inspection of Wellspring Farm on August 26. Indeed, a quorum of the Board attended the 
on-site inspection without posting notice of a meeting, relying on the exception to the 
definition of "meeting" for on-site inspections. Under that exception, it shall not be 
considered a "meeting" of a public body where a quorum attends "an on-site inspection of 
a project or program, so long as the members do not deliberate.'"'' G.L. c. 30A, § 18 
(emphasis added). The Board members attended this on-site inspection believing, in good 
faith, that they were complying with this section of the law. However, we find that, by 
2 
===PAGE 3===
asking questions of the property owners during the inspection, the Board improperly 
deliberated outside of a meeting. See Gerstein v. Superintendent Search Screening 
Committee. 405 Mass. 465, 470 (1989) (questions posed by a quorum of a public body 
constitute deliberation "as it is the means by which [the public body] gathered information 
to aid it in arriving at a decision"); see also OML 2016-104 (even the expression of an 
opinion of one public body member on matters within a public body's jurisdiction to a 
quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no other public body member 
responds.).4 In response to this complaint, the Board remedied the violation, in part, by 
disclosing some of the details from their inspection during its September 22 meeting. To 
sufficiently remedy the violation, however, the Board should recount to the public the 
specific questions posed and comments made to the property owners and create minutes of 
the August 26 on-site inspection. 
In order to conduct an on-site inspection in compliance with the law, the Board had 
three options: (1) post notice of the inspection as a "meeting," provided only if the 
property was accessible to everyone, including members of the public; (2) visit the 
property as individuals or in groups that constitute less than a quorum so as to avoid 
deliberation among a quorum; or (3) visit the property as a quorum, but refrain from asking 
any questions of the property owner or otherwise discussing any matters within the 
Board's jurisdiction until the Board convenes in a properly noticed meeting. We 
understand that this third option may be difficult or impractical to follow. However, 
because the on-site inspection exception to the definition of "meeting" found in G.L. c. 
3 OA, § 18 requires that there be no deliberation, these are the only options available to 
public bodies wishing to conduct such inspections. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by deliberating outside of a noticed meeting. We order the Board's immediate and 
future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar future 
violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Additionally, we 
order the Board to create minutes of the August 26 on-site inspection within 30 days of 
receipt of this determination. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
http://www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
3 
===PAGE 4===
any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Cathy Mendoza 
Rochester Zoning Board of Appeals 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 