===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY (617) 727-2200 
A TTORNEY G ENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
December 8, 2017 
OML 2017-186 
D. M. Moschos, Esq. 
Mirick O'Connell 
100 Front Street 
Worcester, MA 01608-1477 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Moschos: 
This office received a complaint from Kurt Nordquist on October 3, alleging that the 
Spencer-East Brookfield Regional School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee 
on September 6, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated September 26. 
The complaint alleges that the notice for the Committee's August 22 meeting failed to indicate 
that the Committee anticipated voting and making an appointment on a particular topic. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response to 
the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the open session minutes from the Committee's August 8 meeting; and the original and 
revised notices of, and open session minutes from, the Committee's August 22 meeting. Finally, 
we spoke with the complainant on December 1. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. During an August 4 open session meeting, the Committee 
discussed advertising internally for the position of interim superintendent. Committee Chair 
Jason Monette stated that interviews would be conducted during the week of August 22 "with a 
selection made the same night subject to a personnel file review by the Chairman." The 
Committee then unanimously voted to advertise internally for the position of interim 
superintendant and voted to appoint an interim superintendent upon the conclusion of the 
interviews. 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
On August 18, the Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on Tuesday, August 
22 at 6:00 P.M. The notice listed, among other topics. New Business. One specific topic listed 
under New Business was "Interview internal applicants for the Interim Superintendent position." 
The notice included the names of the three candidates the Committee planned to interview. On 
August 20, the Committee posted a revised notice which included one additional topic under 
New Business: "Motion and vote to appoint Interim Superintendent." 
The August 22 meeting was held as planned. During the meeting, the Committee 
interviewed the three named candidates, and unanimously voted to appoint one of those 
candidates. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c, 30A, § 20(b). Notices must include 
the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a "a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." Id. The list of topics shall have sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member 
of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's 
discussion. See OML 2015-35.2 
The complaint alleges that the Committee's August 22 revised meeting notice "does not 
meet the 48 hour requirement" and should have indicated that it planned to appoint an interim 
superintendent following the interviews. Here, the Committee timely posted notice for its 
August 22 meeting, then posted a revised notice on a Sunday two days before the meeting. 
While we commend the Committee for amending the agenda and including that it would vote to 
appoint an interim superintendent, the Committee knew on August 18, when the notice was 
originally posted, that it would be voting for a specific candidate during the meeting. See OML 
2017-147; OML 2011-11. A public body may not add anticipated topics to a notice within 48 
hours of a meeting, but may only add topics that were not anticipated 48 hours before the 
meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
However, the Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to anticipate the course 
of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion, only that it identify the discussion topic with 
sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38. 
We have previously found that it is reasonably foreseeable that a public body may take action 
and hold a vote following discussion of a topic listed on a meeting notice, even where the notice 
topic does not indicate the possibility of a vote. See OML 2015-66; OML 2012-75. 
Accordingly, where the vote flowed naturally from the Committee's consideration of the posted 
agenda item, we find that the notice was sufficient to inform the public of the discussion that 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www. mass. go v/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
occurred, and the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2016-150; OML 
2014-132; OML 2013-145. 
We note that there may be a context in which a public body has repeatedly discussed a 
posted topic over the course of several meetings without ever taking action on the topic. In such 
circumstances, the public may not reasonably foresee a vote by the public body on the posted 
topic without additional detail. In that context, it may be necessary for a public body to 
specifically indicate on its notice that it plans to take action and vote on a particular topic, 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Aline Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Kurt Nordquist 
Spencer-East Brookfield School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 