===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
   
 
July 21, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 137 
 
Brian W. Riley, Esq.  
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By email only: briley@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE:  Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Riley:  
 
This office received a complaint from Gary Sagar on October 30, 2021, alleging that the 
Seekonk Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 9, and the Board 
responded by letter dated September 30.  The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board 
deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting.
2 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we resolved this matter.  We resolve this 
matter
 by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), after reviewing the 
original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review, and the notices, open session minutes, and video recordings of the 
Board’s June 23, July 21, and August 18 meetings.
3  We also communicated with you on June 7, 
2022.  We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged.  
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 The complaint further alleges that, prior to his reappointment, the Board unlawfully extended Mr. Sagar’s 
appointment to the Seekonk Zoning Boards of Appeals for 30 days.  The Division of Open Government's statutory 
authority concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  Even if true, this allegation 
would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law. As such, we decline to review it. 
3 Video recordings of the June 23, July 21, and August 18 meetings are available at 
https://www.facebook.com/TV9Seekonk/videos. 
===PAGE 2===
   
 
2 
 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.  
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by 
a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The 
Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting 
agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the 
distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided than no 
opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a 
simple majority of the members of a public body.  G.L. c. 30A, § 18, see also OML 2017-
17; OML 2016-172.4  A public body may not engage in serial communication whereby a quorum 
communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a subject within the 
public body's jurisdiction.  See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008).  
 
Here, the Board is a five-member public body; therefore, three members constitute a 
quorum.  During a June 23 meeting, the Board considered the reappointments of specific 
individuals to several public bodies in the Town of Seekonk, including the Zoning Board of 
Appeals (the “ZBA”).  Specifically, the Board endorsed two of the three members eligible for 
reappointment to the ZBA.  When Selectman Michael Healy questioned why a third member was 
not listed for reappointment to the ZBA, Town Administrator Shawn Cadime reported that he 
needed to meet with the “Department Heads” to discuss outstanding appointments but would 
prepare his recommendation regarding the third member, Mr. Sagar, for the Board’s next 
meeting.   
 
During a July 21 meeting, the Board considered the reappointment of Mr. Sagar to the 
ZBA.  Mr. Sagar was present and questioned why he was not considered for reappointment at the 
Board’s June 23 meeting despite his years of service on the ZBA.  Chair Sullivan replied that he 
had asked Town Administrator Cadime to reconsider Mr. Sagar’s reappointment, causing the 
delay.  Specifically, Chair Sullivan stated that he had received complaints from the public that 
Mr. Sagar was actively developing land in Seekonk, thus creating a conflict of interest.  Mr. 
Sagar asserted that he recuses himself when necessary.  During this discussion, Selectman David 
Andrade mentioned that he had previously discussed Mr. Sagar’s reappointment with Chair 
Sullivan.  The Board voted unanimously to approve Mr. Sagar’s reappointment to the ZBA for a 
three-year term. 
 
The complaint alleges that in the days before the June 23 meeting, the Board deliberated 
outside of a properly posted meeting when Chair Justin Sullivan “contacted each member of the 
Board of Selectman” to discuss Mr. Sagar’s reappointment.  Chair Sullivan and Selectman Healy 
acknowledged that they spoke to each other prior to the June 23 meeting but state that their 
conversation was limited to a general explanation of the reappointment process, not individual 
positions.  Regardless, because this communication was between two members of the Board, 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: www mass.gov/the -open-
meeting-law.  
===PAGE 3===
   
 
3 
 
which is not a quorum, it did not constitute deliberation outside of a posted meeting and did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2018-132; OML 2017-199; OML 2017-69.  
 
Further, even though Chair Sullivan and Selectman Andrade
  discussed Mr. Sagar’s 
reappointment prior to the July 21 meeting, because this conversation was also between only two 
Board members, which is not a quorum, it did not constitute deliberation outside of a posted 
meeting and did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2021-113.  The Board denies that 
Chair Sullivan discussed Mr. Sagar’s reappointment with any other members on or around June 
23 or July 21.  Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit the public body’s account of 
the facts.  See OML 2019-113; OML 2015-8; OML 2014-122.  Accordingly, we find that the 
Board did not deliberate outside of a noticed meeting. 
 
Finally, even though Chair Sullivan spoke with two Board members, and thus appeared 
to
 reach a quorum of members, we do not find that the Board engaged in serial communication.  
A public body may not engage in a serial communication whereby a quorum communicates in a 
non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a particular subject matter within the 
public body’s jurisdiction.  See OML 2015-3; OML 2012-84; OML 2011-27; McCrea v. 
Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that private serial communications violate the 
spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to circumvent the intent of the Law).  Here, 
the conversations that Chair Sullivan had with both Selectmen Healy and Selectmen Andrade 
were on two separate topics and the content of these individual conversations were not shared or 
otherwise discussed with a quorum of the Board.  See 2014-84.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by: Caitlyn Galvin, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government  
 
 
cc: Gary Sagar – By email only:  
Seekonk Board of Selectman c/o Chairman Justin Sullivan – By email only: 
 

===PAGE 4===
   
 
4 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 