===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 2, 2013 
OML 2013-179 
Michelle A. Hassler 
Chair 
Arlington Cemetery Commission 
70 Medford Street 
Arlington, MA 02474 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Hassler; 
Our office received a complaint filed by Mr. Stephen Harrington (the complainant), dated 
September 20, 2013, alleging the Arlington Cemetery Commission (the Commission) violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that a quorum 
of the Commission met without properly posting notice to the public on an unspecified date 
between August 8, 2011 and August 14, 2013. The complaint further alleges the complainant 
was not allowed to record the Commission's August 14, 2013 meeting. The complaint was filed 
with the Commission on August 15, 2013. The Commission responded by letter dated August 
22, 2013. 
We reviewed the August 15, 2013 complaint filed with the Commission; the 
Commission's August 22, 2013 response; and a request to this office for further review dated 
September 20, 2013. In addition, we reviewed a recording of the August 14, 2013 meeting, 
provided by the complainant, as well as the Commission's regulations and the Town of 
Arlington Traffic Rules and Regulations. We also spoke by telephone with the complainant; the 
Chair of the Commission; and William F. McCarthy, a member of the Commission, in October 
and November 2013.1 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law because 1) we find no evidence it engaged in deliberation outside of a properly noticed 
meeting; and 2) the complainant was ultimately allowed to record the August 14, 2013 meeting. 
FACTS 
1 For purposes of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person. 
1 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
o 
===PAGE 2===
Based upon our review of the material listed above, we find the following facts. The 
Commission consists of three members, thus two members constitute a quorum. The 
complainant attended the Commission's August 14, 2013 meeting to discuss his concerns about 
parking within the Mount Pleasant cemetery. At the beginning of the meeting, he informed the 
Chair of his intention to record the meeting. The Chair initially refused his request to record the 
meeting. The complainant defended his right to record the meeting. The Chair resolved the 
disagreement by then allowing the complainant to record the meeting. 
The complainant had requested the Commission include an item on the agenda for the 
August 14, 2013 meeting because of his concern about the parking situation in Mount Pleasant 
Cemetery. During discussion of the agenda item requested by the complainant, the Chair and 
another member of the Commission indicated that each had spoken individually with other Town 
officers regarding the parking situation. The views of other members of the Commission were 
not shared during these individual conversations. This complaint followed. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law therefore requires that "all 
meetings of a public body shall be open to the public." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). Meeting is defined, 
in part, as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's 
jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Deliberation is defined as "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction . . . ." Id. A public body may not engage in a serial 
communication, whereby a quorum communicates in a noncontemporaneous manner outside of a 
meeting, on a matter within the public body's jurisdiction. See McCrea v. Flaherty.. 71 Mass. App. Ct. 
637 (2008). 
The complaint alleges that two members of the Commission improperly deliberated on a 
matter of public business within their jurisdiction without properly posting notice of the meeting 
because the statements that the Commission gave during the August 14, 2013 support the 
inference that a quorum of the Commission engaged in serial deliberation at a minimum. We 
find no evidence of serial deliberation. The conversations mentioned at the August 14, 2013 
meeting occurred separately. More importantly, those conversations were not used as a vehicle 
to serially deliberate among a quorum of the public body because the opinion of one member of 
the Commission was not expressed to the other. Both the Chair and Mr. McCarthy stated that 
the conversations with various town officials regarding the parking situation in the cemetery 
occurred without the knowledge of or orchestration by another member of the Commission. 
Finding no evidence to the contrary, the conversations were thus not deliberations because they 
did not occur among a quorum. Without deliberation, a meeting cannot occur under the Open 
Meeting Law. Consequently, we find no violation. 
The complaint also alleges that the complainant was not allowed to record the August 14, 
2013 meeting. The public has an absolute right to record meetings, subject to reasonable 
restrictions. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(e). While the Chair did initially refuse to allow the 
2 
===PAGE 3===
complainant to record, she ultimately granted him permission. We therefore find no violation of 
* 2 
the Open Meeting Law because the complainant was allowed to record the meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. Lhis 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
cc: Stephen Harrington 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or 
any member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through 
an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
2 Additionally, we note that we have said in prior decisions that "because the Law unequivocally states that 'any 
person may make a video or audio recording of an open session meeting of a public body,' it is improper for a public 
body to discourage an individual who wishes to record a meeting from doing so. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(e)." OML 
2013-81. Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
Sincerely, 
Mark M. Higgins / 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 