===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 2, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 88 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Dighton Board of Selectmen 
Chair Kenneth Pacheco  
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Pacheco: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on March 14, 2021, alleging that 
the Dighton Board of Selectmen (“the Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 12 and the Board 
responded by letter dated February 25.1 In his complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that the Board 
convened in executive session without a proper statutory purpose. 
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 
29.07(2)(a), and find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by meeting in executive 
session without a proper statutory purpose. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for 
further review. We also reviewed the video recordings of the Board of Selectmen’s public 
meetings from January 25 and February 12.  
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten 
purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open 
session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the 
vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has 
publicly announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive 
session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b). 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
One permissible reason to convene in executive session is “[t]o conduct strategy sessions 
in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 
2”). However, a public body may not discuss an individual’s professional competence in 
executive session. See District Attorney for the North District v. School Comm. of Wayland, 455 
Mass. 561, 568 (2009) (although it is clear that professional competence must first be discussed 
in an open session, how that evaluation will factor into a contract or salary negotiation strategy 
may be a suitable discussion for an executive session); OML 2019-57.2 
During a January 25 meeting, the Board entered executive session for two purposes, the 
first of which was the subject of this complaint. On the meeting notice, the Board cited the Open 
Meeting Law’s executive session Purpose 2 and further specified that the Board would discuss 
an “Update on Performance Evaluations.” Performance evaluations and discussions of an 
employee’s professional competence must occur in open session as they do not fit within any of 
the ten permissible purposes to enter executive session. See OML 2021-45; OML 2018-38. 
Therefore, if the Board had discussed the performance evaluation or professional competence of 
an individual employee in executive session, this would have been a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law. 
In response to the complaint, the Board asserts that the Board did not enter executive 
session to discuss the performance evaluation or professional competence of any one individual. 
Rather, the Board states that it discussed a more general topic - the performance evaluation 
process for non-union personnel. This purpose also does not fit within any of the ten permissible 
purposes for convening in executive session and was therefore not a permissible topic for the 
January 25 executive session. See OML 2019-57.  
For these reasons, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by meeting in 
executive session without a lawful purpose. We order the Board’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a determination by our office 
of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  
We also order the Board, if it has not already done so, to release to the public within 30 
days of receipt of this letter the portion of the January 25 executive session meeting minutes 
which relate to the impermissible “performance evaluations” discussion. However, this order 
does not extend to any portions of the January 25 executive session minutes that were convened 
under a separate executive session purpose, as we make no ruling on the permissibility of the 
Board continuing to withhold minutes on other topics.  
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
  
 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
Assisted by: Alexis Kenney, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via e-mail:  
 Dighton Board of Selectmen Executive Assistant Karin Brady (via e-mail: 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
