===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 29, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 103 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Nancy Campany, Esq. 
Murphy, Lamere & Murphy, P.C. 
50 Braintree Hill Office Park, Suite 202 
Braintree, MA 02184-8807 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Campany: 
This office received a complaint from Tracy Firth on January 15, 2021, alleging that the 
Norfolk County Commission (the “Commission”) and the Norfolk County Agricultural High 
School Board of Trustees (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25 
We also received a complaint from Natasha Hatalsky on March 1, 2021, alleging that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law. The complaints were originally filed on December 9 and 
December 2, respectively.1 The Board responded to both complaints by letter dated December 10 
and the Commission responded by letter dated December 18. As the complaints contain similar 
allegations, we address them together in this determination. In their complaints, Ms. Firth and 
Ms. Hatalsky allege that the Commission and Board met in executive session without a proper 
statutory purpose.  
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
and find that the Commission and Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Commission’s and Board’s responses to 
the complaint, and the complainants’ requests for further review. We reviewed the meeting 
notice and open session minutes of the Board and Commission’s joint December 9 meeting. We 
also reviewed, in camera, meeting minutes of the joint executive session held by the Board and 
Commission on December 9, which were provided to us by the Board and Commission’s 
attorney in April 2021. Finally, we reviewed the meeting notice and open session minutes of the 
Board’s December 2 meeting.  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
DISCUSSION 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). All meetings of a public body must be conducted in an 
open session, unless a closed-door executive session is convened for one of ten permissible 
purposes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). When meeting in executive session, a public body may 
only address subjects related to the narrow executive session purpose the public body cited when 
entering executive session. See District Attorney for the Northwestern District v. Selectmen of 
Sunderland, 11 Mass. App. Ct. 663, 666 (1981) (executive session may not be used as a blanket 
reason to deliberate on matters other than those pertaining to the specific purpose for which 
executive session was called). 
 One such statutory purpose for executive session is to “consider the purchase, exchange, 
lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the negotiating position of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) (“Purpose 6”). 
Purpose 6 is intended to preserve confidentiality in negotiating the value of the property to be 
purchased, exchanged or leased to avoid putting the public body at a disadvantage in its 
negotiations for the property. See District Attv. for the Plymouth Dist. v. Selectmen of 
Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 631 (1985); OML 2020-63; OML 2019-10.2 We construe 
Purpose 6 narrowly to permit a public body to meet in executive session to protect its negotiating 
position when seeking to purchase, exchange, or lease real estate, or to discuss the value of real 
estate, where it has a negotiating position relative to that property. See Allen v. Board of 
Selectmen of Belmont, 58 Mass. App. Ct. 715, 719-721 (2003); OML 2018-49. General 
discussions regarding real property or the use of real property, where there is no negotiating 
position to protect, do not fall within this executive session purpose. See OML 2016-93, OML 
2015-167.  
 At the time of the meetings at issue, it was publicly known that the Board and the 
Commission were negotiating with an energy company to build solar panels at the Norfolk 
County Agricultural High School, and on county-owned land nearby. Ms. Hatalsky alleges that 
the Board improperly met in executive session on December 2, and Ms. Firth alleges that the 
Board and the Commission improperly met in a joint executive session on December 9 to discuss 
the solar project. Since the Board postponed its December 2 executive session until it could meet 
jointly with the Commission, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law regarding the 
December 2 executive session, as the Board did not enter executive session. See OML 2013-85 
(finding no violation of the Open Meeting Law where a public body did not end up entering 
executive session, though the notice indicated that the public body would enter executive session 
for an improper purpose.)  
 On December 9, the Board and Commission convened a joint executive session to discuss 
property related to the solar project. The joint notice for the December 9 meeting included a 
topic for an executive session, “Pursuant to Purpose 6 (MGL Ch.30A, Section 21(a)(6)) to 
consider the lease of real property, specifically property on the premises of the Norfolk County 
Agricultural High School, 400 Main Street, Walpole, MA and 1377 North Street Walpole, MA, 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating 
position of the public body.” We reviewed the Board and Commission’s December 9 joint 
executive session minutes in camera. As these executive session minutes have not been released 
to the public, we do not recount their contents in detail. We are satisfied that the Board and 
Commission’s discussion regarding the solar project was proper under Purpose 6 as the 
discussion related to the “purchase, exchange, lease or value” of property and the Board had a 
negotiating position to protect in its ongoing negotiations with the energy company. We are also 
persuaded that having these discussions in open session may have had a detrimental impact on 
the negotiating position of the Board and Commission. For these reasons, we find that the 
December 9 executive session met the requirements for a Purpose 6 executive session. 
Therefore, we find that the Board and Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 Finally, we take this opportunity to remind the Board and Commission of the Open 
Meeting Law’s requirements regarding disclosure of executive session minutes. Executive 
session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as publication may 
defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(1). When 
the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents or 
exhibits used at the session must be disclosed, unless the attorney-client privilege or an 
exemption to the Public Records Law applies. Id. A public body or its chair or designee must, at 
reasonable intervals, review the minutes of executive sessions to determine if continued 
nondisclosure of those minutes is warranted. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). Although “reasonable 
interval” is not defined by the Law, our office has found a quarterly review or a review every six 
months to be appropriate. See OML 2019-45; OML 2017-104. At the meeting following each 
periodic review, the public body must announce which executive session minutes will be 
released and which will continue to be withheld at the next meeting following its review, and 
such announcement shall be included in the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1); OML 2019-3. If a 
public body reviews executive session minutes and determines that the purpose for the executive 
session remains such that the minutes should continue to be withheld from the public, it must 
continue to review those same executive session minutes at reasonable intervals until it 
determines that the reason for secrecy has expired. See OML 2020-23; OML 2019-133. 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission and the Board did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office, the Commission or the Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 
if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
cc: Tracy Firth (via email:  
 Natasha Hatalsky (via email:  
 
 Norfolk County Commission, c/o Assistant County Director William Buckley (via 
 email:  
 
 Norfolk County Agricultural High School Board of Trustees c/o Chair Edwin Little 
 (via email:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
