===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
March 7,2019 
OML 2019-17
Michele E. Randazzo, Esq.
KP Law, P.C.
101 Arch Street, 12th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Randazzo:
This office received a complaint from Peter Hanlon on September 7 alleging that the 
Sandwich Historic District Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on August 6 and you 
responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated August 24. The complaint alleges that 
the Committee discussed a matter during its July 11 meeting that was not listed on the notice.
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to 
the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notices and minutes of Committee meetings held on May 9, July 11, and October 
10. We also spoke with the complainant by telephone on October 16 and February 20, 2019.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. Old King’s Highway Regional Historic District Act (the 
“Act”) establishes the Old King’s Highway Regional Historic Commission, a multi-town 
regional historic district which consists of nine member towns, including the Town of Sandwich. 
Each member town also has a local historic district committee. See Chapter 470 of the Acts of 
1973. The Act requires Certificates of Appropriateness for exterior changes to buildings, signs, 
and other construction to promote congruity, compatibility, and appropriateness with the historic 
character of the member towns. Certain activities or features do not require a Certificate of 
Appropriateness but simply the approval of the local historic district committee. See 972 CMR
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.

===PAGE 2===
3.01. One such exemption is the erection of a wooden fence, as long as it is not within view 
from a way or public place. See 972 CMR 3.04.
On May 3, the complainant emailed the Committee advising that Peter Wild wished to 
erect a fence on the boundary line separating Mr. Wild’s property from the complainant’s 
property. The complainant specifically requested that the Committee notify him “if and when 
any ‘exception’ is applied for and request to be notified of hearing.” On June 29, Mr. Wild 
submitted an application to the Committee for a Certificate of Exemption to install a six-foot 
fence.
On July 6 at 10:30 A.M., the Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
Wednesday, July 11 at 6:30 P.M. The notice listed seven topics, including the approval of nine 
Certificates of Appropriateness, approval of one continued Certificate of Appropriateness, 
approval of one extension of a Certificate of Appropriateness, Approval of Minutes, and Other 
Business.
The July 11 meeting was held as planned. The Committed approved nine Certificates of 
Appropriateness, approved one Certificate of Appropriateness that had been previously 
continued, and granted a one-year extension for another Certificate of Appropriateness. During 
“Other Business,” Administrative Assistant Michelle Raymond brought to the Committee’s 
attention Mr. Wild’s application for a Certificate of Exemption and requested guidance with 
respect to whether it could be approved. Committee Chair William Collins advised that he had 
conducted a site visit to determine whether the installation of a fence at the requested location 
was visible from a way and thus qualified as an exemption. Chair Collins indicated that it was 
not visible and told Ms. Raymond to “process the application.” On July 12, Mr. Wild’s 
Certificate of Exemption was filed with the Sandwich Town Clerk indicating that it had been 
approved by the Committee on July 11.
During an October 10 meeting, the Committee reviewed the Certificate of Exemption that 
had been granted on July 11 and determined that it had been approved in error because the 
Committee misconstrued the definition of a “way.” The Committee then revoked the Certificate 
of Exemption and informed Mr. Wild that he would have to file an application for a Certificate 
of Appropriateness. To date, it does not appear that the Committee has reviewed any Certificate 
of Appropriateness filed by Mr. Wild.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law further requires that public bodies post 
notice of each meeting “at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays” and that every notice include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b). Public bodies must list topics for discussion with “sufficient specificity to
2
i iiiiiiil tiuifliuii

===PAGE 3===
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the 
public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. 
See OML 2015-35; OML 2012-71; OML 2011-44.2
The complaint alleges that the Committee discussed a topic, the Certificate of Exemption, 
during its July 11 meeting that was not listed on the meeting notice. We agree that this topic was 
not listed on the notice. However, we do not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law because 
a public body may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not anticipated 
by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting. See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87. Here, Ms. 
Raymond raised this topic by requesting guidance from the Committee with respect to Mr.
Wild’s application for a Certificate of Exemption. Chair Collins did not plan to raise the issue 
himself during the July 11 meeting, and Ms. Raymond did not indicate that she would request 
advice from the Committee with respect to this application. As such, the chair did not 
reasonably anticipate that the Committee would discuss the Certificate of Exemption during the 
July 11 meeting, and therefore he was not required to list it in the meeting notice. See OML 
2015-195; OML 2015-4. While a public body may consider a topic at a meeting that was not 
listed in the notice if it was not reasonably anticipated at least 48 hours before the meeting, we 
encourage public bodies to postpone discussion of topics that were not listed in the meeting 
notice until the topic may be included in a meeting notice, unless the circumstances demand 
immediate action by the public body. See OML 2013-197; OML 2011-23.
The complaint also alleges that the Committee failed to provide notice to him as an 
abutter or the opportunity for public comment before considering the application. The Open 
Meeting Law does not require public bodies to provide additional notice of meetings to specific 
individuals or groups of individuals for topics discussed during a meeting.3 See OML 2013-41; 
OML 2011-41. It is not a violation of the Open Meeting Law for a public body to vote on a topic 
without first taking comments from the public. See OML 2013-64; OML 2012-59; OML 2012— 
23. Moreover, the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting by limiting public participation 
during the meeting, as it is within the Chair’s discretion to do so. See G.L. c. 30A § 20(f) (“[n]o 
person shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons 
shall, at the request of the chair, be silent”); OML 2017-181.
CONCLUSION
Lor the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3 The Division of Open Government is charged specifically with reviewing complaints to determine compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, thus we decline to review, and offer no opinion on, whether any 
actions taken by the Committee could be a violation of any public hearing law or regulation, or any potential 
violation of the Old King’s Highway Regional Historic District Act, its Rules and Regulations, or its Guidelines.
See OML 2014-31; OML Declination 6-25-18 (Rowley Planning Commission).
3
i iilll lilH ftillhli

===PAGE 4===
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Peter Hanlon
Sandwich Historic District Committee
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
