===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
 
 
August 16, 2021 
 
OML 2021 - 114 
 
 
Bryan Bertram, Esq. 
Miyares Harrington 
40 Grove Street, Suite 190 
Wellesley, MA 02482 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Bertram: 
 
This office received a complaint from Lucia Lopez on May 30, 2021, alleging that the 
Hopkinton Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 31, and you responded, on behalf of 
the Board, by letter dated April 7.  The complaint alleges that a topic listed on the notice for the 
Board’s March 2 meeting was insufficiently detailed. 
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed 
with our office requesting further review, and the notice and minutes of the Board meeting held 
on March 2.  We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged.   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Id.  The list of topics 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35.2   
 
Here, the Board’s March 2 meeting notice listed eight topics, including “Town Manager 
Report.”  This topic heading included a subheading of “Main Street Corridor Project Update” 
that further advised the public of the topic to be discussed.  During the March 2 meeting, the 
Town Manager stated that the Town Engineer received a request from the contractor of the Main 
Street Corridor Project to use portions of Marathon Way as a staging area to store equipment and 
materials.  The Board discussed the benefits and drawbacks to allowing such use and then 
unanimously voted by roll call to “approve the use of Marathon Way as a laydown area 
intermittently throughout the project until such time as the work” has been completed.  The 
complaint alleges that the notice failed to indicate that the Board would specifically be 
discussing, as part of the Main Street Corridor Project, the use of particular streets for the storage 
of construction materials and equipment.  The Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies 
to list all tangential topics related to a discussion nor does the law require a public body to 
anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion, only that it identify the 
discussion topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2015-73; OML 
2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38.  We find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law with respect to the sufficiency of the Main Street Corridor Project topic listed on 
the March 2 meeting notice.   
 
In addition, we note that, in the past, when a meeting notice has included as a topic a 
report or presentation by somebody who is not a member of the public body, such as 
“Superintendent’s Report” or “Administrator’s Report” or “Report from Department Heads,” we 
have declined to find a violation of the Open Meeting Law for lack of specificity where the 
public body chair did not anticipate the specific nature of the deliberations to be had.  
Nonetheless, we have encouraged public body chairs as a best practice to solicit from the Town 
Manager and include on the meeting notice more detail regarding the precise matters to be 
discussed.  See OML 2019-94; OML 2018-33; OML 2012-19.  The Board did that here as the 
notice listed one specific topic under “Town Manager’s Report.”   
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: https://www.msss.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Lucia Lopez – By email only:  
Hopkinton Select Board – By email only:   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
 
