===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 17, 2021 
 
OML 2021-115 
 
Nicholas G. DiZoglio 
Chair, IT Subcommittee 
Methuen City Council 
41 Pleasant Street 
Methuen, MA 01844 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. DiZoglio: 
 
This office received a complaint from James McCarty, a member of the Methuen City 
Council, on February 16, 2021, alleging that the Methuen City Council IT Subcommittee (the 
“IT Subcommittee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was 
originally filed with the IT Subcommittee on December 28, 2020, and you responded, on behalf 
of the IT Subcommittee, by letter dated January 12, 2021.  The complaint alleges that the IT 
Subcommittee deliberated outside of a posted meeting when a quorum of the IT Subcommittee 
met with the City of Methuen’s Chief Administrative Finance Officer (“CAFO”) on December 1, 
2020, to discuss the status of a multi-million-dollar technology procurement for the City.
 1 
 
Following our review, we find that although the IT Subcommittee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a posted meeting on December 1, the IT Subcommittee 
adequately remedied the violation during its meeting on December 9, before this complaint was 
filed.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the IT Subcommittee’s 
response to the complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the 
minutes of the IT Subcommittee’s December 1 and December 9 meetings.
2  We also spoke by 
phone with the Chair of the IT Subcommittee on December 3, after the Chair contacted our 
 
1 Except where indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 
2 We note that the minutes of both the December 1 and December 9 meetings are quite detailed.  We commend the 
IT Subcommittee and its staff for the thoroughness of the minutes, which aided our review in this case.  

===PAGE 2===
office to discuss the Open Meeting Law compliance concerns arising from the December 1 
meeting.3   
 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows.  On December 1, the Chair of the IT Subcommittee, the 
Mayor, the CAFO, and the two remaining members of the IT Subcommittee met via Zoom to 
discuss the status of and concerns regarding delays to a major and long-awaited technology 
procurement for the City.  Notice was not posted of the meeting, and access to the meeting was 
not made available to the public.  At the beginning of the meeting, one of the IT Subcommittee 
members raised a concern that the presence of all three IT Subcommittee members at the 
meeting violated the Open Meeting Law.  The Chair responded that the meeting would be a 
general discussion, and that no votes would be taken.  Unsatisfied, the member who raised the 
concern left the meeting.  However, a quorum of two members of the three-member IT 
Subcommittee remained in the meeting.  During the December 1 meeting, the remaining IT 
Subcommittee members, the Mayor, and the CAFO discussed concerns about the status and 
delays with the contract for the procurement of the new “Munis” software system.  The Chair 
expressed concerns regarding the delays, noting that the procurement had been approved years 
prior.  The IT Subcommittee members, along with the Mayor and the CAFO, discussed a 
timeline and a plan for moving forward with the contract.  The Chair concluded by stating that 
the matter would be discussed further at a City Council meeting scheduled for December 6 and 
an IT Subcommittee meeting scheduled for December 9. 
 
On December 2, the IT Subcommittee posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
December 9 at 5:00 PM.  The notice included the topic “City IT Update,” and below that the 
subtopics “Munis” and “CIO Timeline.”  The IT Subcommittee convened as scheduled on 
December 9 via Zoom in a meeting that was open to the public.  The CAFO also attended and 
participated in the meeting.  During the meeting, the Chair disclosed that a quorum of the IT 
Subcommittee had met on December 1 without posting notice.  The Chair stated that, after 
consulting with the Attorney General’s Office, the IT Subcommittee would seek to remedy any 
Open Meeting Law violation by creating minutes of the December 1 meeting and disclosing the 
discussion that had taken place.  The Chair and the CAFO then discussed the status of the 
contract, the reason for the delays, and a plan for moving forward, which were all matters that 
had been discussed on December 1.  The IT Subcommittee subsequently created and approved 
detailed minutes for both the December 1 and December 9 meetings.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Law states, in relevant part, that “a public body shall 
post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, 
Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Except when convened in executive session, 
“all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A “meeting” is 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
 
3 For clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 3===
body's jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Law defines “deliberation” broadly as any “oral or 
written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a 
quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  The Open Meeting 
Law does not carve out an exception to the definition of “deliberation” for discussions that do 
not result in a decision or vote.  See OML 2020-93. 
 
We find that the IT Subcommittee deliberated outside of a posted meeting on December 
1, in violation of the Open Meeting Law, when a quorum of the IT Subcommittee discussed the 
status of, and concerns regarding, the Munis contract, a matter that was clearly within the IT 
Subcommittee’s jurisdiction.  We next consider whether the IT Subcommittee adequately 
remedied the violation.  Violations of the Open Meeting Law may be cured by independent, 
deliberative action that is not merely a ceremonial acceptance and perfunctory ratification of 
action taken in violation of the law.  See Pearson v. Bd. of Selectmen of Longmeadow, 49 Mass. 
App. Ct. 119, 125 (2000); OML 2020-7; OML 2016-49.  Generally, that means conducting 
deliberations anew at a subsequent meeting that is accessible to the public and for which proper 
notice is provided.  See OML 2020-67.  That is precisely what the IT Subcommittee did at its 
December 9 meeting, when the Chair did not merely report that a discussion had occurred on 
December 1 but rather the IT Subcommittee members along with the CAFO publicly engaged in 
discussion about the specific matters that had been discussed on December 1. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the IT Subcommittee violated the Open 
Meeting Law when it deliberated outside of a posted meeting on December 1, but that it cured 
the violation during its meeting on December 9.  Therefore, we order no further remedial action.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.   
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Methuen City Council - By email only:  
 James McCarty – By email only:  

===PAGE 4===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 