===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 12, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 152 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Noemi Kawamoto, Esq. 
Brooks & DeRensis, P.C. 
nkawamoto@bdboston.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Kawamoto: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on January 31, 2024, alleging that 
the Canton Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or around January 11, 2024, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated January 31, 2024.  The complaint pertains to a 
December 27, 2023, meeting of the Board and alleges that 1) the meeting notice did not list the 
names of candidates for license renewals; 2) the minutes of the December 27 meeting did not 
include a list of documents used during the meeting; 3) the Board discussed a matter that was not 
listed on the meeting notice; and 4) the Board did not announce that the meeting was being 
recorded.    
 
After review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to list the 
names of candidates for license renewals on the notice for the December 27 meeting and by 
failing to include in the meeting minutes a list of documents used during the December 27 
meeting.  We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed 
the notice and minutes of the Board’s December 27, 2023, meeting. 
 
Sufficiency of Meeting Notice 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  
The notice must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, 
time and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed.  Id.  The list of topics shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally 
consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read 
the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-
35.1   
 
The notice for the Board’s December 27 meeting included the topic “Annual License 
Renewals: Liquor Licenses, Common Victuallers” without further detail on the specific licenses 
to be considered for renewal.  To be sufficiently specific, a meeting notice must identify the 
specific applicants or license holders that will be considered during the meeting, if known 48 
hours in advance of the meeting.  See OML 2020-112; OML 2020-20; OML 2017-33.  We find 
that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently specific notice where 
it failed to list the applicants or licensees.  We commend the Board for committing to including 
the additional specificity on meeting notices going forward. 
 
Sufficiency of Meeting Minutes 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  Meeting minutes 
must include “the date, time and place [of the meeting], the members present or absent, a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
votes.”  Id.  The Open Meeting Law does not define what it means for a document to be used at a 
meeting but, at a minimum, it is clear that where a document is physically present, verbally 
identified, and the contents are discussed by the members of a public body during an open 
meeting, it has been “used” for purposes of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2024-115; OML 
2014-12; OML 2012-42.  
 
The minutes of the Board’s December 27 meeting reference documents that were used at 
various points during the meeting, but do not contain a list of such documents.  It is not sufficient 
to merely reference documents used at the meeting in the body of the minutes; the minutes must 
include a list of the documents used.  See OML 2023-238; OML 2022-189; OML 2012-91.  The 
Board does not dispute that documents were “used” during the meeting, and we find that the 
minutes are insufficient where they fail to include a list of the documents used.  Again, we 
commend the Board for committing to include a list of documents and exhibits used during each 
meeting in its meeting minutes going forward.   
 
Discussion of a Topic Not Included on Meeting Notice 
 
Next, the complaint alleges that during the Board’s December 27 meeting the Board 
discussed a bathroom installation bid for the Paul Revere Heritage Site despite the topic not 
appearing on the meeting notice.  The Open Meeting Law requires that notice of each meeting be 
posted at least 48 hours in advance, not including weekends and holidays, and must include a 
listing of all topics that the chair “reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(b).  The Open Meeting Law regulations contemplate that a meeting notice may be 
 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found on the Attorney General's website at https://www.mass. gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
amended, even within 48 hours of a meeting.  See 940 CMR 29.03(1)(d).  Specifically, a public 
body may amend a meeting notice within 48 hours of a meeting to include an unanticipated topic 
and then discuss that topic during the meeting.  See OML 2023-173; OML 2019-131.  Indeed, a 
public body may discuss and even take action on a truly unanticipated topic during a meeting 
despite the topic not appearing on the meeting notice at all.  See OML 2024-57; OML 2020-172; 
OML 2019-131. 
 
Here, the Board has explained, and the complainant has identified no evidence to the 
contrary, that the discussion of the Paul Revere Heritage Site bathroom installation was 
unanticipated.  Specifically, the Board explained that a proponent of the project requested to be 
heard by the Board less than 48 hours before the meeting in order to obtain funding approval 
because insufficient funds had been budgeted for the project and the failure to approve adequate 
funding could result in termination of the contract.  Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, 
we credit a public body’s account of the facts.  See OML 2023-121; OML 2017-93; OML 2016-
141; see also LaPointe v. License Board of Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) (“There is every 
presumption in favor of the honesty and sufficiency of the motives actuating public officers in 
actions ostensibly taken for the general welfare.”).   Here, although the Board could have 
discussed the unanticipated topic without adding it to the meeting notice at all, the Board 
followed our recommended practice of amending the meeting notice the morning of the meeting 
to add the topic “Vote to Approve: use of mitigation funds to supplement the CPA funds for the 
bathroom project at the Paul Revere Heritage Site.” Therefore, we find the Board did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law.   
 
Announcement of Meeting Recording 
 
The Open Meeting Law provides that, subject to certain reasonable requirements set out 
in the Law, any person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a 
public body or may transmit the meeting through any medium.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f).  At the 
beginning of the meeting, the chair shall inform other attendees of any recordings.  See id.  The 
requirement that the chair inform attendees of any recording includes any recording made by the 
public body itself, including recordings made for public broadcasting or administrative purposes, 
such as assisting in the drafting of meeting minutes.  See OML 2023-154; OML 2020-159; OML 
2013-136. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to announce that the December 27 meeting 
was being recorded.  The Board explains that its practice had been that meeting attendees were 
notified of the recording before the recording began, and therefore the meeting recording 
available online through the Canton Government Channel did not capture the announcement of 
recording.  As explained above, absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit the Board’s 
assertion that the announcement of recording was made at the start of the meeting but not 
captured in the recording that the complainant presumably viewed, and we find no violation of 
the Open Meeting Law.  We remind the complainant that the Open Meeting Law does not 
require public bodies to record their meetings or to post recordings of their meetings online, nor 
does it require—if a meeting is recorded—that the recording capture every aspect of the 
meeting.  See, e.g., OML 2020-96.  
  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to list the names of candidates for license renewals on the notice for the December 27 
meeting and by failing to include in the meeting minutes a list of documents used during the 
December 27 meeting.  We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the 
other ways alleged.  We order the Board to amend the minutes of the December 27 meeting to 
include a list of documents used during the meeting, if it has not already done so, within 30 days 
of the date of this letter.  We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law and caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar violation in 
the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via e- mail: ) 
 Canton Select Board (via e-mail:
 bos@town.canton.ma.us) 
 Canton Town Administrator (via e- mail: townadmin@town.canton.ma.us) 
Canton Town Clerk (via e-mail: tkenney@town.canton.ma.us) 
 Paul DeRensis, Esq (via e- mail: pderensis@bdboston.com) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
