===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 11,2018 
Notice: 
This determination was issued by the Attorney General prior to the April 5, 2018, decision of the 
Supreme Judicial Court in the matter of Boelter v. Board of Selectmen of Wayland, No. SJC-
12353, which may supersede this determination to the extent that the two are inconsistent. In 
Boelter, the Court concluded that the Wayland Board of Selectmen violated the Open Meeting 
Law by distributing to its members employee performance evaluations that included opinions of 
individual Board members. Communication of these opinions by email constituted 
"deliberation" by the Board members that may occur only during a properly noticed meeting. 
This decision establishes that public body members may not send opinions to each other, 
including individual employee performance evaluations for aggregation, outside of a noticed 
meeting. After April 5, 2018, the Division of Open Government will adhere to the Court's 
holding in Boelter in its enforcement of the Open Meeting Law. 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Director, Division of Open Government 
O 
===PAGE 2===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON,  MAS SACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
January 17, 2013 
OML 2013 — 4 
John Bladon 
Chairman 
Board of Selectmen 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
Dear Mr. Bladon: 
Our office received a complaint by Mr. George Harris, dated January 30, 2012, alleging a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§18-25, by the Wayland Board of Selectmen 
(the "Board"). Specifically, the complaint alleges that a member of the Board emailed a draft of 
an opinion piece to be published in the local newspaper to a quorum of the Board on November 
28, 2011, in advance of a meeting to review the draft. The complaint was initially filed with the 
Board on or about December 12, 2011. We received the Board's response to the initial 
complaint dated January 4, 2012. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching our determination, we reviewed the December 12, 2011 complaint; the Board's January 
4, 2012 response; and the January 30, 2012 complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we 
reviewed the minutes of the Board's October 27, 2011 and November 28, 2011 open meetings. 
Finally, we reviewed an email sent by Selectman Thomas Fay to the four other members of the 
Board, dated November 28, 2011. 
FACTS 
The Wayland Board of Selectmen is a five-member public body. At the Board's October 
27, 2011 meeting, the Board voted unanimously to "authorize Selectmen [Thomas] Fay and 
[John] Bladon to prepare and submit guest columns to the Town Crier and other media on behalf 
of the Board regarding Town Center and Special Town Meeting, said columns to be consistent 
with positions taken by the Board of Selectmen." Selectmen Fay and Bladon drafted a guest 
column outside of the Board's meetings. Selectman Fay emailed the draft guest column to the 
other four Board members on November 28, 2011. In his email, Selectman Fay wrote: 
"Attached please find a draft Crier article for your consideration. We will review this at our 
===PAGE 3===
meeting tonight. The goal is to submit it to the Crier after our meeting. Please do not respond to 
this email, before tonight's meeting." No Board members responded to the email. 
At the Board's meeting the evening of November 28, 2011, the Board reviewed the draft 
and made minor changes. The Board then approved the draft, though no formal vote was taken. 
The minutes state that the Board "made edits and approved the press release, 'New Tax Relief 
for Wayland.'" 
The opinion piece, titled "Board of Selectmen: Tax relief for Wayland" was published in 
the Wayland Town Crier on December 1, 2011. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law seeks to balance the public's interest in witnessing the 
deliberations of public officials with the government's need to manage its operations efficiently. 
To that end, the law defines deliberation as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided 
that no opinion of a member is expressed." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. All deliberations must occur 
during a meeting. Id. 
Here, the Board authorized two members to "prepare and submit guest columns to the 
Town Crier and other media on behalf of the Board." Selectman Fay emailed the draft guest 
column to a quorum of the Board on November 28, 2011, to be considered and discussed at that 
night's meeting. By performing this administrative task by email, Selectman Fay did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law. 
Generally, the Open Meeting Law restricts communications between and among a 
quorum of a public body with respect to "any public business within its jurisdiction." Given this 
restriction, our advice has always been that public bodies should refrain from virtually all email 
communication between a quorum of members to avoid even the appearance that members are 
deliberating outside an open meeting. That is still our advice. Nonetheless, we recognize that 
the law excludes from the definition of "deliberation" certain administrative tasks such as "the 
distribution of a meeting agenda" and "the distribution of reports or documents that may be 
discussed at a meeting." That exception includes a strong caveat, however: such administrative 
communications are permissible "provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. 
Here, Selectman Fay's email did no more than distribute a document to be discussed at 
the Board's meeting that night. The email did not contain any advocacy by Selectman Fay, and 
it did not invite comment from other Board members, nor was any comment provided. 
Moreover, the fact that Selectmen Fay and Bladon were going to be drafting the guest column —
reflecting the views of the entire Board — had been discussed in a prior open session, and the 
draft itself was considered and discussed in open session. We, therefore, determine that 
Selectman Fay's email distribution of the draft guest column constituted an administrative task 
2 
===PAGE 4===
permitted by the Open Meeting Law.' 
We note, however, that determining which tasks are merely "administrative" can be 
challenging, and that email communications between a quorum of public body members —
however innocent — creates at least the appearance of a potential Open Meeting Law violation. 
Therefore, our best advice continues to be that public bodies not communicate over email at all 
except for distributing meeting agendas, scheduling meetings and distributing documents created 
by non-members to be discussed at meetings, which are administrative tasks specifically 
sanctioned under the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider this complaint resolved and this matter closed. This letter does not 
resolve any other complaints which may have been filed with our office or the Board. Please 
contact me if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
./2 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: George Harris 
Mark Lanza, Wayland Town Counsel 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
Our determination would be different, however, if Selectman Fay's email contained his own opinion concerning a 
matter within the Board's jurisdiction. That is, the administrative exception does not permit public body members to 
draft memoranda on a topic before the body and distribute it because it "may be discussed at a meeting." 
3 