===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
October 25, 2013 
OML 2013-156 
Mark Andrews 
Town Administrator 
Town Hall 
138 Main St. 
Wenham, MA 01984 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Andrews: 
This office received an Open Meeting Law complaint from Michelle Bailey, dated March 
8, 2013, alleging that the Wenham Board of Selectmen (the "Select Board") and the Wenham 
Planning Board violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the 
complaint alleges that the Select Board met on January 3, 2012 in executive session for an 
improper purpose and that the Planning Board failed to post notice of its meeting with the Select 
Board. Additionally, the complaint alleges that the Select Board has failed to periodically review 
its executive session meeting minutes to determine whether there is a continued purpose for non-
disclosure. The complaint was originally filed with the Boards on or about February 4, 2013. 
The Boards responded by letter dated February 21, 2013. 
Following our review, we find that the Select Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing a topic in executive session that was not appropriate for executive session, and by 
failing to periodically review and publicly release its executive session minutes. The Select 
Board took appropriate remedial action to address the latter violation. We find that the Planning 
Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by attending the Select Board's January 3, 2012 
executive session because the Planning Board members did not deliberate. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the February 4, 2013 complaint filed with the Boards; the Boards' 
February 21, 2013 response; and the March 8, 2013 complaint filed with our office. 
Additionally, we reviewed the notice and the open and executive session minutes of the Board's 
January 3, 2012 meeting. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
On January 3, 2012, the Select Board convened a meeting. Among the topics for 
discussion listed in the meeting notice was "Executive Session - Real Estate Negotiations." 
During the meeting, the Select Board voted to enter into executive session to discuss real estate 
negotiations. During the executive session, the Select Board noted in the minutes that, "although 
the Planning Board had a quorum [present], the ES meeting was called by the BOS, and the PB 
did not call a meeting to order citing [that] the PB would not be deliberating or voting."1 The 
Select Board then discussed a specific property, and the recent actions of the property owner and 
a developer. The Select Board discussed the potential impact of the proposed development on 
the Town and services, and discussed creating a mitigation request list that would become part of 
a development agreement between the Town and the developer and property owner. The Select 
Board discussed the role of the Project Review Committee which would consider the impact of 
the development on town services and generate a new mitigation list. The Select Board also 
announced its intention to put an article in the May 2012 Town Meeting Warrant to change the 
zoning of the property. 
On January 7, 2013, Ms. Bailey requested copies of the Select Board's executive session 
minutes from 2011 and 2012. At that time, the Board discovered that it had not conducted a 
periodic review of its executive session minutes to determine whether release would defeat the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. During its January 22, 2013 meeting, the 
Select Board reviewed its 2012 executive session minutes and announced the results of its 
review. On February 7, 2013, the Select Board reviewed and publicly released its minutes from 
two 2011 executive sessions, including the January 3, 2012 executive session. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Taw requires public bodies to post a notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting." G.T. c. 3OA, § 20(b). Meeting is defined, in part, as "a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Deliberation 
is defined, in relevant part, as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id 
Additionally, public bodies may enter a closed, or executive, session for any of ten 
purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, and the public body may only address a narrow 
range of subjects related to the cited purpose(s) when in executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21; 
see District Attorney for the Northwestern District v. Selectmen of Sunderland. 11 Mass. App. 
Ct. 663, 666 (1981). Purpose 6 allows a public body to enter into executive session "[t]o 
consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body." G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(6). 
1 The executive session minutes of the Select Board's January 3, 2012 meeting were publicly released on January 
22, 2013. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The complaint alleges that the Select Board met on January 3, 2012 in executive session 
for an improper purpose. The Select Board entered into executive session to discuss "Real Estate 
Negotiations." However, it does not appear that the Select Board was negotiating the "purchase, 
exchange, lease or value of real property." See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6). The Select Board 
discussed the impact that a proposed development would have on the Town and the role of the 
Project Review Committee to generate a new mitigation list. The Select Board did not consider 
the purchase or sale of land, or its value for the purpose of a transaction, but rather discussed the 
process for investigating the impact on town services and the development of a mitigation list. 
The Select Board discussed the role of the Project Review Committee in generating the 
mitigation list, the process for generating the mitigation list, and putting an article on the Town 
Meeting Warrant to change the zoning of the property. Because the Select Board did not discuss 
the value, lease, purchase or sale of real property, the discussion was not appropriate for 
executive session under Purpose 6. Therefore, the Select Board should have conducted the 
discussion in open session. See OML 2012-98.2 In its February 21, 2013 response to this 
complaint, the Select Board argues that "[djisclosing aspects of the development, while still 
under negotiation, would have disadvantaged the Town in its negotiations over the terms of this 
agreement." While we acknowledge the Select Board's concerns, the discussion that occurred 
did not fit within any of the ten purposes for executive session, and should have been held in 
open session. However, we note that the Board acted appropriately by releasing these executive 
session minutes in January 2013. 
The complaint also alleges that the Planning Board failed to post notice when it met with 
the Select Board during its January 3, 2012 executive session. Although a quorum of the 
Planning Board was present, it does not appear that the Planning Board deliberated. The Boards 
state in their February 21, 2013 response to the complaint that the members of the Planning 
Board merely listened as the Select Board discussed a development agreement to which the 
Planning Board was not a party. We have not been presented with any evidence to the contrary, 
thus we find that the Planning Board did not deliberate during the Select Board's January 3, 2012 
executive session, and therefore did not hold a "meeting" requiring notice under the Open 
Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(b). 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the Select Board has failed to periodically review its 
executive session meeting minutes to determine whether there is a continued purpose for non-
disclosure. Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public "as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer." G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(f). When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and 
any documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client 
privilege or an exemption to the public records law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, 
from disclosure. See id. Public bodies have an obligation to review the minutes of executive 
sessions at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of minutes is warranted, 
and to announce that determination at the next meeting following its review. G.L. c. 3OA, § 
22(g)(1). In response to the complaint, the Select Board acknowledges that it "has not conducted 
a periodic review of executive session minutes to determine whether release would defeat the 
purpose for which the executive session was called.. .the Board of Selectmen has since 
conducted a review of the executive session minutes for 2011 and 2012 and released those 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www .mass.gov/ago/o penmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
minutes for which release would not defeat the purpose for which the executive session was 
called." Furthermore, the Select Board states that in the future, the Select Board "will 
periodically review executive session minutes to determine whether continued non-disclosure is 
warranted and include its determination in the minutes of the Board's next meeting." We 
therefore find that, while the Select Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
periodically review its executive session minutes, it took appropriate remedial action in response 
to the complaints. 
We find that the Select Board violated the Open Meeting Law by meeting in executive 
session on January 3, 2012 for an improper purpose, and by failing to periodically review and 
publicly release its executive session minutes. The Select Board took appropriate remedial 
action to address the latter violation. We find that the Planning Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We order the Select Board's immediate and future compliance with the Law, and 
caution the Select Board that a future similar violation may be evidence of an intentional 
violation of the Law. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during this investigation, and 
now consider this matter closed. Please contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Michelle Bailey 
Kenneth Whittaker, Chair, Wenham Board of Selectmen 
David E. Geikie, Chair, Wenham Planning Board 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Jonaman sciarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
4 