===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
November 16, 2021 
 
OML 2021 - 162 
 
 
Francesse Canty, Esq. 
Director of Human Resources 
Everett School Committee 
337 Broadway 
Everett, MA 02149 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Canty: 
 
This determination addresses eight complaints from Steven Fitzgerald alleging that the 
Everett School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.
1  In total, Mr. Fitzgerald has filed approximately 80 separate Open Meeting Law 
complaints with public bodies in Everett over the past year.  The complaints addressed herein are 
dated May 24, June 21, June 26 (five complaints), and June 29.2 All eight complaints allege that 
the Committee failed to timely respond to prior Open Meeting Law complaints that Mr. 
Fitzgerald had filed with the Committee.
 3   
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaints, the Committee’s responses to the complaints, and the 
complaints filed with our office requesting further review.  We find that the Committee did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law.   
 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 
2 Because of the volume of complaints that Mr. Fitzgerald has filed with the Everett School Committee and other 
public bodies in Everett, many on the same date and/or raising similar allegations, we have numbered the complaints 
for tracking purposes.  This determination addresses complaints 46, 48, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, and 57. 
3 One member of the Committee is an employee of the Attorney General’s Office.  The complaints contain no 
allegations that are specific to the actions of that individual, and that individual played no role in this office’s 
consideration of the complaints. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law Regulations 
require that, within 14 business days after receiving a complaint, a public body must meet to 
review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the 
complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23; 940 
CMR 29.05(5).  The public body shall simultaneously provide the Attorney General with a copy 
of the complaint, the response, and a description of any remedial action taken. 940 CMR 
29.05(5).  However, “[t]he attorney general may authorize an extension of time to the public 
body for the purpose of taking remedial action upon the written request of the public body and a 
showing of good cause to grant the extension.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). 
 
Seven of the complaints addressed herein allege that the Committee failed to timely 
respond to previous complaints filed with the Committee on or around April 16, 27, 28, and 30, 
and May 7.  The eighth complaint alleges that the Committee failed to timely respond to a May 
24 complaint, which itself alleged that the Committee had failed to timely respond to the April 
27 complaint.  We find that when Mr. Fitzgerald filed the complaints addressed herein, the 
Committee was not in violation of the Law with regard to the timeliness of its responses to these 
complaints, as the Committee requested and was granted extensions of time to respond to the 
underlying complaints.   
 
We acknowledge that Mr. Fitzgerald filed the additional Open Meeting Law complaints 
addressed herein with the Committee immediately following what he believed to be missed 
response deadlines, and was not aware that the Committee had properly requested, and would 
receive, an extension of time.  For example, the Committee’s responses to several Open Meeting 
Law complaints were due on June 25.  In the afternoon on Friday, June 25, the Committee 
requested an extension of time to respond to those complaints; the extension was granted on 
Monday morning, June 28, and Mr. Fitzgerald was informed accordingly.  However, in the 
meantime, on Saturday, June 26, Mr. Fitzgerald had already sent to the Committee five of the 
Open Meeting Law complaints addressed herein, alleging a failure to timely respond to prior 
complaints.  We note that upon learning that the Committee had been granted an extension of 
time to respond to the prior complaints, Mr. Fitzgerald did not withdraw his new complaints; 
rather, he pursued them with the Committee and eventually filed them with this office for further 
review, which required both the Committee and this office to devote time and resources to 
addressing the meritless complaints.  Likewise, we advise that filing numerous separate Open 
Meeting Law complaints asserting identical or nearly identical violations in each does not further 
advance the goals of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter.   
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Steven Fitzgerald (via e-mail:  
 F
rank Parker, Chair, Everett School Committee (via e -mail:  
 P riya Tahiliani, Superintendent, Everett Public Schools (via e- mail: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
T
his determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
