===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 17,2017 
OML 2017-9 
Robert Fennessy, Town Administrator 
Town of Kingston 
26 Evergreen Street 
Kingston, MA 02364 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Dear Mr. Fennessy: 
This office received two related complaints from Daniel Harlow, both filed on December 
21, 2016, alleging that the Kingston Conservation Commission (the "Commission") violated the 
Open Meeting Law. The first complaint was filed with the Commission on October 20, 2016, 
and the second was filed with the Commission on October 27, 2016. The Commission 
responded to both complaints by letter dated November 22, 2016. In his complaints, Mr. Harlow 
alleges that the Commission deliberated in executive session on two occasions without a proper 
statutory purpose.1 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Commission's 
response, and the requests for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the minutes 
of Commission executive session meetings held on March 4, 2014 and February 16, 2016, and 
we reviewed an audio recording of the Commission's February 16, 2016 executive session. 
Finally, we spoke with the Commission's legal counsel by telephone on January 5, 2017. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. In 2013, the Commission issued two enforcement orders 
against the complainant. The complainant appealed the enforcement orders to the Superior 
Court, which issued an order on January 22, 2016 vacating the enforcement orders and 
remanding the matters back to the Commission. At issue are two executive sessions, held on 
March 4, 2014 and February 16, 2016. The Commission publicly released the minutes of its 
1 The complaints also contend that the Commission acted in violation of certain Town bylaws. Even if true, these 
allegations would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. We therefore decline 
to review them. Sec OML Decimation 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 
O 
===PAGE 2===
February 16, 2016 executive session on September 21, 2016, and its March 4, 2014 executive 
session minutes on October 2, 2016. 
During the March 4, 2014 executive session, the litigation with the complainant was 
ongoing. The Commission discussed an upcoming hearing, as well as a request from the 
complainant to expand the record. Additionally, the Commission discussed work that was being 
done on the complainant's property, and whether this work had any impact on the ongoing 
litigation. 
During the February 16, 2016 executive session, the Town Conservation Agent first 
briefed the Commission on the Superior Court decision remanding the two enforcement orders. 
The chairman read the Superior Court decision and stated that the purpose of the executive 
session was to discuss whether to appeal the Superior Court decision. There was some 
disagreement about whether the Commission could discuss reissuing its enforcement orders in 
executive session, and the Commission members discussed the scope of the executive session. 
The Commission discussed whether, in lieu of appealing the decision, it could reissue amended 
orders of conditions. Ultimately, the Commission voted unanimously not to appeal the Superior 
Court decision. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be open to members 
of the public, unless the public body convenes an executive session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 
21. One such purpose for convening in executive session is, "to discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 3 OA, § 
21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). A discussion of whether to pursue an appeal is the type of strategic 
litigation decision protected by Purpose 3. See OML 2012-116; OML 2012-81.2 
Here, the complaints allege that the discussions that took place during the two executive 
sessions did not fit within any valid executive session purpose. Specifically, the complaints 
contend that the discussion of the complainant's property during the March 4, 2014 executive 
session and the discussion of potentially reissuing amended orders during the February 16, 2016 
executive session strayed beyond the bounds of permissible executive session discussion. 
Because in both instances the conversations were linked to considerations of the Commission's 
litigation strategy, we disagree. With respect to the former meeting, the Commission discussed 
an upcoming hearing, as well as work being done on the complainant's property that may have 
impacted the ongoing litigation. With respect to the latter meeting, the Commission discussed its 
options following the Superior Court decision remanding the two enforcement orders. This 
discussion included consideration of alternatives to appealing the decision, such as whether 
issuing new orders of condition could obviate the need for an appeal. The Commission's 
conversations during both meetings related to its litigation strategy, and we therefore find that 
the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2011-47. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
— — 
Kevin W. Mangafiare 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Daniel Harlow 
Jason R. Talerman, Esq., Town Counsel 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 