===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 30, 2017 
OML 2017-20 
Swansea Board of Selectmen 
c/o John McAuliffe 
Swansea Town Administrator 
81 Main Street 
Swansea, MA 02777 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. McAuliffe: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on December 23, alleging 
that the Swansea Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 3OA, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on December 14, 
and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated December 21. The complaint 
alleges that the notice for the Board's December 13 meeting lacked sufficient detail 
because it did not list the street addresses of the establishments to be considered for license 
renewals. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's 
response to the complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, 
and the notice from the Board's December 13 meeting. 
We find the facts as follows. On December 13, the Board held a meeting to 
approve the annual alcohol and entertainment license renewals submitted by local 
establishments. The meeting notice included an itemized list of the various license 
renewals that the Board planned to discuss and vote on, such as "On-Premise All Alcohol 
License Renewal" and "On-Premise Wine & Malt License Renewals." There were eleven 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
agenda items relating to license renewals. Under each type of license renewal, the specific 
establishments were listed by name. However, the listing did not include the address of the 
establishment. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must 
be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and 
place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will 
be discussed. Id. The list of topics shall have "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise 
the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We 
generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the 
public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's 
discussion. See OML 2015-35.2 
The complaint alleges that the notice concerning the license renewals lacked 
sufficient detail in that it did not provide "the address for each licensee." Although 
including street addresses may oftentimes be useful to the public, such detailed specificity 
was not necessary here where the Board listed the specific names of the establishments 
with the specific types of license renewals thus providing ample description of the topics to 
be discussed. Accordingly, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by omitting 
addresses from the notice. However, we encourage the Board to include addresses in its 
meeting notices, in addition to the names of the establishments it intends to discuss. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending 
with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 