===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 1 2014 
OML 2014-91 
Holly Young 
Senior Legal Administrative Assistant 
Town of Templeton 
Board of Selectmen 
690 Patriots Road, P.O. Box 250 
Templeton, MA 01468 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Young: 
This office received a complaint on June 2, 2014 from Daniel Keeney, alleging that the 
Templeton Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint alleges that, during the executive session portion of the Board's March 3, 
2014 meeting, the Board failed to provide Mr. Keeney with an opportunity to speak on his own 
behalf in opposition to the Town Administrator's decision to terminate his employment. The 
complaint also alleges that after the March 3, 2014 meeting. Board Chair Jeffrey Bennett 
improperly disclosed the substance of the Board's executive session discussion to a reporter for 
The Gardner News. Finally, the complaint alleges that the Chair did not properly open the 
meeting on that same date and therefore the Board did not lawfully enter into executive session. 
The complaint was filed with the Board on March 10, 2014. The Board responded in a letter 
dated March 25, 2014. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the March 10, 2014 complaint filed with the Board; 
your March 25, 2014 response on behalf of the Board; and the June 2, 2014 complaint filed with 
our office. We also reviewed correspondence sent to our office from both the Board and Mr. 
Keeney's counsel. Attorney John Flick. Additionally, we reviewed the letter of termination sent 
to Mr. Keeney by the Interim Town Administrator, Robert Markel, and the formal notice 
informing Mr. Keeney of the March 3, 2014 executive session regarding his termination. We 
also reviewed a March 5, 2014 article concerning Mr. Keeney 's termination that was published 
in The Gardner News. Finally, we reviewed the Town of Templeton's Personnel Policies and 
O 
===PAGE 2===
Procedures; a written description of the Town Administrator's position; and an audio recording, 
provided by the Board, of the March 3, 2014 open and executive session. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On February 27, 2014, Interim Town Administrator Robert 
Markel (the "Town Administrator") informed Mr. Keeney of his termination as Templeton's 
Treasurer, both in person and in writing. The written notice explained that Mr, Keeney would be 
placed on administrative leave until the Board could convene to vote to approve or disapprove 
the Town Administrator's decision. That same day, Mr. Keeney received notice that the Board 
would be holding an executive session on March 3, 2014. On March 3, 2014 the Board held this 
meeting, which Mr. Keeney attended with counsel. The Chair began the meeting by stating, 
"We'll call this meeting to order." The Chair then explained that the purpose for the Board's 
executive session was "to discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, 
rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, 
or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or 
individual." The Chair informed Mr. Keeney that he had the choice to have the discussion and 
vote regarding his termination in either open or executive session. Mr. Keeney requested that the 
discussion be held in executive session. 
At that point, the Board voted to enter into executive session. In executive session, the 
Chair explained that the reason for the meeting was because Mr. Keeney had challenged the 
Town Administrator's authority to terminate his employment. Mr. Keeney then spoke and stated 
that he did not believe the Town Administrator had the authority to terminate his employment 
without the Board's approval. Additionally, he asked that the Town Administrator provide the 
reasons for his termination. In response to this request, the Chair stated that the only purpose for 
the meeting was for the Board to either approve or disapprove the Town Administrator's 
decision. Nevertheless, the Town Administrator responded to Mr. Keeney's request and 
provided the reasons behind his decision to terminate Mr. Keeney. The Board then voted to 
affirm the Town Administrator's decision to terminate Mr. Keeney and exited from executive 
session. Once the Board reconvened in open session, Mr. Keeney publicly addressed the Board 
and responded to the reasons given by the Town Administrator for his termination. 
On March 5, 2014, The Gardner News published an article titled "Templeton Treasurer 
Dismissed." Eryn Dion, Templeton Treasurer Dismissed, THE GARDNER NEWS, March 5, 2014. 
The article described the executive session that was held on March 3, 2014, noting that that the 
Board had affirmed the Town Administrator's authority to dismiss Mr. Keeney. Additionally, 
the article noted that during the executive session the Board voted to approve the Town 
Administrator's dismissal of Mr. Keeney. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION 
1. The Board Properly Convened its March 3, 2014 Meeting. 
A public body may enter into a closed executive session for any of ten enumerated 
purposes, provided that the body has first convened in open session.1 G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(1). 
The complaint alleges that Chair Bennett did not properly open the Board's March 3, 2014 
meeting, thus the Board could not have lawfully entered into executive session on that date. At 
5:30 PM on March 3, 2014, the Chair stated, "We'll call this meeting to order." We find that this 
statement was sufficient to satisfy the Open Meeting Law's requirement that a public body 
convene in open session prior to entering executive session and therefore find no violation. See 
G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(b)(1). 
2. The Board gave Mr. Keeney an Opportunity to Speak on his own Behalf during the 
Board's March 3. 2014 Executive Session. 
The Open Meeting Law provides procedural protections to an individual who is to be 
discussed during an executive session held under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). These 
protections include written notification at least 48 hours before a proposed executive session and 
the rights to be present at such executive session, to have counsel present, and to speak on his or 
her own behalf Id. 
Mr. Keeney received written notification of the March 3, 2014 executive session on 
February 27, 2014. The notice informed him of his rights under Purpose 1, including the right to 
speak on his own behalf Mr. Keeney attended the Board's March 3, 2014 executive session 
meeting with counsel. 
During the executive session, Mr. Keeney was given the opportunity to speak on his own 
behalf. The Chair questioned Mr. Keeney about his challenge to the Town Administrator's 
authority and, at that time, Mr. Keeney responded that he did not believe the Town Administrator 
had the authority to terminate his employment without the Board's approval. Additionally, Mr. 
Keeney addressed the Board, asking it to provide the reasons for his termination. The Town 
Administrator responded, providing such reasons. At no time during the executive session did 
the Board reject a request by Mr. Keeney to speak. Therefore, we find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law. 
3. The Board Chair's Discussion with a Reporter from The Gardner News did not Violate 
the Open Meeting Law. 
The complaint alleges that Chair Bennett improperly disclosed information from the 
March 3, 2014 executive session to a reporter from The Gardner News, resulting in an article 
1 Though not alleged in the complaint, we note that the Chair did not publicly announce whether the open session 
would reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session. We remind the Board that before entering into 
executive session, the chair must announce whether the Board will reconvene in open session at the conclusion of 
the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(4). 
3 
===PAGE 4===
published March 5, 2014 that included a description of the executive session portion of the 
meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law allows public bodies to discuss certain topics behind closed 
doors if the body believes confidentiality is required. G.L. c. 30A, § 21. However, the law does 
not require that public body members keep topics discussed in executive session confidential nor 
does it impose penalties for members' failure to do so. We therefore find that, even if taken as 
true, the complainant's allegations do not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law. We 
express no opinion as to whether other laws, including those enforced by the State Ethics 
Commission, may require public body members to maintain the confidentiality of such sessions. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Attorney John Flick 
Daniel Keeney 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. BOA, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 