===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
February 28, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 30 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Michael Cunningham, Esq. 
Town Counsel 
Town of Arlington  
mcunningham@town.arlington.ma.us  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Cunningham: 
 
This office received a complaint from Christopher Loreti on July 7, 2023,
1 alleging that 
the Arlington Town Manager Screening Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on 
or about April 4, and, after an extension of time granted by our office, former Town Counsel 
Douglas Heim responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated May 1. The complaint 
alleges that the Committee 1) improperly met in executive session on February 23; 2) improperly 
withheld resumes of and communications from three candidates who the Committee had chosen 
as finalists for the Town Manager position; and 3) failed to list in its meeting minutes documents 
used during meetings.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing topics in executive session that were not appropriate for executive session and by 
creating insufficient meeting minutes. We find that the Committee did not otherwise violate the 
Open Meeting Law.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Committee’s response, and the request for further review and additional 
documents provided therewith. We also reviewed several sets of minutes for both open and 
executive session meetings, a public records request made by the Complainant, and 
communications from the Town’s previous legal counsel to our office prior to the filing of this 
complaint. Finally, we also communicated with the Town’s current legal counsel.
2 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The complaint relates to the Town of Arlington’s 
search for a new Town Manager and stems, at least partially, from a public records request the 
Complainant made for various records. As part of the search process, the Town engaged a 
consultancy and formed the Committee to screen applicants and forward three to five finalists to 
the Arlington Select Board (the “Board”). The Town received 20 applications for the position of 
Town Manager. During an executive session held on January 18, the Committee reviewed 
applications and selected six individuals to interview.
3 Thereafter, the Committee interviewed 
the six candidates over the course of two executive sessions held on February 2 and 7. At the 
conclusion of the interviews on February 7, the Committee agreed on three candidates to be 
recommended to the Board for further consideration and a fourth applicant as an alternate to be 
forwarded in the event any of the other candidates withdrew from consideration.  
 
Prior to forwarding the finalists to the Board, the Town’s consultant contacted each 
finalist to inform them that they had been selected to interview with the Board. At that time, 
three of the four finalists withdrew from consideration. On February 23 the Committee convened 
in executive session and was informed that three of the four finalists had withdrawn from 
consideration. During the February 23 executive session, the Committee discussed options for 
how to proceed, considered the pool of candidates that had not been selected, and determined 
that the four candidates it had initially selected were the only candidates worthy of 
recommendation to the Board and therefore it did not have further candidates to recommend. The 
Committee then voted to inform the Board that the Committee had selected four finalists but that 
three had withdrawn, leaving one candidate to recommend to the Board.   
 
On March 27, the Board interviewed the sole remaining candidate recommended by the 
Committee, James Feeney, in open session. During the meeting, the Board voted to appoint 
James Feeney as Town Manager, subject to successful contract negotiations. On April 10, after 
successful contract negotiations in executive session, the Board voted in open session to formally 
appoint James Feeney as Town Manager.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. During Its Fe bruary 23 Executive Session, the Committee Discussed Some Topics 
That Were Not Appropriate for Executive Session.  
  
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the s ecrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  
 
 
3 The Committee has not yet released the minutes for the executive sessions at issue in this matter; therefore, we 
only briefly summarize what occurred during the relevant executive sessions. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated 
in the
 Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). The exceptions to the general rule that meetings 
of a public body shall be open are narrowly construed. See McRea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 
637, 641 (2008). Among the ten purposes for executive session is Purpose 8, which permits a 
preliminary screening committee “[t]o consider or interview applicants for employment or 
appointment . . . if the chair declares that an open meeting will have a detrimental effect in 
obtai
ning qualified applicants; provided, however, that this clause shall not apply to any meeting, 
including meetings of a preliminary screening committee, to consider and interview applicants 
who have passed a prior preliminary screening.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(8). The law defines 
“Preliminary Screening” as “the initial stage of screening applicants conducted by a committee 
or subcommittee of a public body solely for the purpose of providing to the public body a list of 
those applicants qualified for further consideration or interview.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
 
The preliminary screening process may consist of several steps, such as consideration of 
wri
tten applications or resumes, selection of some candidates for further consideration, and 
interviews for the purpose of narrowing the field of candidates to two or more finalists to be 
considered by the full body in open session. See Gerstein v. Superintendent Search Screening 
Comm., 405 Mass. 465, 471-73 (1989); Comm. v. Bd. of Selectmen of the Town of 
Westborough, 2006 WL 3292678 (Mass. Super. 2006). Nothing in the statute suggests that 
“preliminary screening” is limited to a one-time only review of an applicant’s credentials; 
however, once an applicant has passed a preliminary screening and been referred to the full body 
as a finalist, all further consideration of the applicant must occur in open session. See Gerstein, at 
471; OML 2012-11.4 
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee’s February 23 executive session was improper 
because the “Committee had completed its preliminary screening work and voted to name four 
finalists for the Town Manager position.” We disagree that the February 23 executive session 
was improper because the Committee’s work was “complete.” However, we find that a portion 
of the February 23 executive session was improper. 
 
The Open Meeting Law allows public bodies to convene under Purpose 8 in order to 
undertake two activities, to “consider” or to “interview” applicants for employment or 
appointment. See OML 2019-48 (finding that discussions related to the selection process and 
conflict of interest concerns were improper for executive session because they “did not 
specifically involve the consideration or interview of applicants”); OML 2016-105; OML 2019-
7; OML 2021-152. Therefore, the Committee’s discussions regarding the fact that three 
candidates had withdrawn and the discussions regarding how to proceed in the face of this 
development were improper for executive session under Purpose 8.  
 
With respect to the Committee’s reconsideration of the pool of candidates who had not
  
previously been selected as finalists in order to determine if there were additional candidates to 
recommend, we note that this case presents unique circumstances. We emphasize that the Open 
Meeting Law allows a preliminary screening committee to convene in executive session only for 
the purpose of selecting multiple finalists to forward to the parent body, not to make the ultimate 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
selection, and therefore a screening committee meeting in executive session must identify more 
than one finalist for further consideration. See OML 2020-147; OML 2018-142 (finding that a 
screening committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it met in executive session and 
selected only one candidate to recommend to the full board). This requirement serves an 
important function for public transparency; without it, a preliminary screening committee is 
essentially free to make final hiring decisions behind closed doors, subject only to an up or down 
vote by the parent public body. Here, the Committee appropriately selected four finalists during 
an executive session on February 7. After three finalists withdrew from consideration, the 
Committee reconvened in executive session on February 23 to re-open its review of the applicant 
pool, which also was an appropriate task to undertake in executive session. During the February 
23 executive session, the Committee was unable to identify any additional finalists to 
recommend. Although the result of the totality of the circumstances was that only one finalist 
was forwarded to the Board, at no point did the Committee narrow the field to a single candidate. 
Based on the specific facts presented here, we decline to find that the Committee violated the 
Open Meeting Law when it reconsidered the applicant pool in executive session on February 23.  
 
For the above reasons, we find improper that portion of the Committee’s February 23 
executive session where it discussed how to proceed but was not considering candidates. We 
order the Committee to release to the public that portion of the minutes for the February 23 
executive session that records the discussions that were inappropriate for executive session.  
 
II. The Committee Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law When it Declined to Provide 
Records to the Complainant.  
 
The Open Meeting Law provides that “[t]he minutes of any executive session . . . and all 
documents and exhibits used at the session, may be withheld from disclosure to the public in 
their entirety . . . as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, 
but no longer; provided, however, that the executive session was held in compliance with section 
21.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). The law continues, “[w]hen the purpose for which a valid executive 
session was held has been served, the minutes . . . and documents and exhibits of the session 
shall be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or 1 or more of the exemptions under [the 
Public Records Law] apply to withhold these records, or any portion thereof, from disclosure.” 
Id. The Open Meeting Law does not define what it means for a document to be used at a meeting 
but, at a minimum, it is clear that where a document is physically present, verbally identified, 
and the contents are discussed by the members of the public body, it has been “used” for 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-12; OML 2012-42.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee improperly withheld the resumes of the three 
finalists who withdrew from consideration as well as communications from those candidates 
explaining why they had chosen to withdraw. We begin by noting that other than requests for 
meeting minutes made under the Open Meeting Law, requests for records, including documents 
and exhibits used at a meeting, fall under the Public Records Law, not the Open Meeting Law. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 22; G.L. c. 66, § 10; OML Declination 1-31-2022 (Weymouth School 
Committee). A review of whether an executive session purpose remains ongoing such that a 
public body may rely on the Open Meeting Law to withhold records falls under the Division of 
Open Government’s purview; however, a review of whether records may be withheld or redacted 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
under the Public Records Law or the attorney-client privilege falls within the purview of the 
Supervisor of Records in the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s office. See OML 2022-87. 
Therefore, our review is limited to whether there was an ongoing executive session purpose such 
that the Committee could rely on the Open Meeting Law to withhold the requested records. We 
find that there was. 
 
Executive session Purpose 8 allows a preliminary screening committee to consider and 
interview applicants in private where the chair has declared that an open meeting will have a 
detrimental effect in obtaining qualified applicants. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(8). We have 
acknowledged that “in the event that candidates withdraw or the process is flawed at a later 
stage, it is foreseeable that a hiring authority may return to the preliminary screening committee 
for guidance on how to proceed. For this reason, the purpose for which a preliminary screening 
committee enters executive session may outlast the preliminary screening committee itself.” 
OML 2011-29; see also OML 2016-105; OML 2011-29 (finding that, although finalists were 
forwarded to the board of selectmen and the screening committee dissolved, withholding the 
committee’s executive session minutes did not violate the Open Meeting Law because the search 
process had not yet been completed by the board); OML 2012-11. At the time the complaint was 
filed with the Committee, on April 4, the Board had not yet held its final vote to appoint a Town 
Manager; therefore, at that time, the executive session purpose remained ongoing such that the 
Committee could rely on the Open Meeting Law to continue to withhold executive session 
minutes and records. As such, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
by declining to provide such records. 
 
Although we find that the Committee permissibly continued to withhold the requested 
recor
ds at the time the complaint was filed, we note that the Town Manager has now been 
appointed. As such, the executive session purpose has been served and the Open Meeting Law 
can no longer justify continued nondisclosure. See OML 2012-11. Questions regarding whether 
the Committee may withhold or redact records under the Public Records Law concerns the 
Committee’s compliance with that law and should be directed to the Supervisor of Records.  
 
III. The Committee Created Insufficient Meeting Minutes.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). As explained previously, at a minimum, it is clear 
that where a document is physically present, verbally identified, and its contents discussed by 
members of the public body, the document has been “used” for purposes of the Open Meeting 
Law and therefore must be listed in the meeting minutes. See OML 2014-12; OML 2012-42.  
 
When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for 
substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2017-104; OML 2013-64. By 
substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so 
that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2019-145; OML 2012-106. Although a 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
transcript of the discussions is not required, and the minutes need not include every remark or 
opinion presented, minutes must include a substantive summary of the discussion on each topic. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes include more than a statement that a 
public body held a discussion about a specified topic; the law requires that the minutes 
summarize the discussion that was held. See OML 2020-57; OML 2020-18; OML 2019-167. 
Minutes of executive sessions must include the same level of detail as is required for open 
session minutes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2020-53.  
 
We understand the Complainant to allege that the Committee’s meeting minutes—for 
both open and executive sessions—are insufficient because they do not include a list of the 
documents used at the meetings. The Committee explains that resumes were distributed to 
Committee members prior to the meetings and that, other than an interview template, the 
Committee did not generally “use” any documents during its meetings as Committee members 
“generally conferred about candidates based upon their own recollections and notes about each 
[candidate].” The Committee did, however, agree to amend its minutes to list “candidate 
resumes” and “interview template.” 
 
After an in camera review of the minutes for the Committee’s executive sessions held on 
January 18, February 2, February 7, and February 23, we find that the minutes fail to summarize 
the discussions that occurred. As such, it is difficult to determine whether the Committee “used” 
any documents during any of its executive session meetings. Although we cannot make a 
definitive finding with respect to whether the Committee used any documents during its 
executive sessions, we do find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by creating 
insufficient meeting minutes where it failed to summarize the discussions that occurred. See 
OML 2023-198; OML 2015-49 (finding that minutes must summarize the substance of 
interviews); see also OML 2022-189 (finding that even if information discussed during an 
executive session may properly be withheld from the public, the public body is not excused from 
the obligation to create accurate minutes of the meeting). We order the Committee to amend the 
minutes of its executive sessions to include a substantive summary of the discussions and 
interviews that occurred, and to include a list of any documents used during the meetings.  
 
With respect to open session minutes, the Committee did not use any documents during 
the open session portions of its February 2, 7, and 23 meetings; therefore, we find no violation 
with respect to those minutes. With respect to the open session minutes of the January 18 
meeting, the Committee has amended these minutes to list the document used. As such, we do 
not order additional remedial action with respect to this set of minutes.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it discussed topics in executive session that were not appropriate for executive session and 
by creating insufficient meeting minutes. We find that the Committee did not otherwise violate 
the Open Meeting Law.  We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law and caution that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the 
future may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. Additionally, 
we order the Committee, within 30 days of the date of this letter, to amend the minutes for its 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
executive sessions held on January 18, February 2, February 7, and February 23 to include a 
summary of the discussions and interviews that occurred. Furthermore, once the minutes are 
amended, we order the Committee to release to the public that portion of the February 23 
minutes that records the discussions that were not appropriate for executive session. Finally, we 
order the Committee to certify to our office in writing that it has complied with this order.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Lenard Diggins, Chair of the Arlington Town Manager Screening Committee and 
member of the Arlington Select Board (via email: LDiggins@town.arlington.ma.us) 
 Eric Helmuth, Chair of the Arlington Select Board  
(via email: EHelmuth@town.arlington.ma.us) 
Juli Brazile, Arlington Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@town.arlington.ma.us) 
Christopher Loreti (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
