===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 15,2017 
OML 2017 - 94 
James S. Timmins 
City Solicitor 
Quincy City Hall 
1305 Hancock Street 
Quincy, MA 02169 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Timmins: 
This office received an Open Meeting Law complaint from William Zamzow, 
dated January 30, 2017, alleging that the Quincy City Council (the "Council") violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that 
the Council discussed and voted on an item during its December 5, 2016 meeting that 
was not listed in the meeting notice. The complaint was filed with the Council on 
January 2, 2017, and you responded, on behalf of the Council, by letter dated January 27, 
2017, following an extension of time granted by our office. 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint filed with the 
Council, the Council's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review. We also reviewed the notice of and open session minutes from 
the Council's December 5, 2016 meeting, as well as the video recordings of the Council's 
public hearing and subsequent open session meeting held on December 5.1 Finally, we 
spoke by telephone with the complainant on May 26, 2017 and spoke by telephone with 
you on June 7, 2017.2 
1 The video recording of the public hearing is available at: http://www.Quincvtaxpavers.com/?q=node/250 
and the video recording of the Council meeting is available at: 
httpV/www.quincvtaxpavers.com^q^node^Sl 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On November 22, 2016, the Council posted notice 
of a public hearing to be held on Monday, December 5, 2016 at 7:00 P.M. The public 
hearing was to determine the percentages of local tax levy to be borne by each class of 
real property. On December 1, 2016, the Council posted notice for a meeting to be held 
on Monday, December 5, 2016 at 7:30 P.M. The notice listed eleven topics, two of 
which were Order No. 2016-274 "Adopting - Percentages of Local Tax by Each Class of 
Real & Personal Property for FY17" and Order No. 2016-275 "Adopting - Residential 
Factor of .863743 for FY17." 
During the Council's December 5 public hearing. City Assessor Colleen Healy 
advised the Council that it needed to decide whether there would be a single tax rate for 
all properties or a split tax rate between residential and commercial properties, and then 
vote on the minimum residential factor. Several members of the public spoke during the 
public hearing, including the complainant. 
During the Council meeting on December 5, Mark Cavanaugh, Director of the 
Municipal Finance Department, provided the Council with two options for setting the 
proposed tax rates for fiscal year 2017. The first option, which was on the notice as 
Order No. 2016-275, was to set the residential factor at .863743, which would cause an 
8.72% increase in taxes. The second option, which was provided to the Council that 
evening, was to appropriate $3.7 million of free cash to the Snow and Ice Amortization 
Schedule, which would cause an increase in taxes by only 6.87%. 
Councilor Brian Palmucci raised concerns that the second option was not properly 
before the Council where it was not on the agenda and questioned whether the Council 
was in violation of the Open Meeting Law. Solicitor Timmons suggested that the 
Council could discuss and vote on the second option, despite its absence from the notice, 
if it was an emergency matter or if it was not reasonably anticipated by the chair 48 hours 
prior to the meeting. Solicitor Timmons mentioned that it was his understanding that 
Mayor Thomas Koch was approached by several council members over the weekend 
prior to the meeting expressing concern over the proposed .863743 residential factor. As 
a result of these conversations. Mayor Koch formulated a second option which would use 
a specific amount of free cash to reduce the tax burden. 
A motion to accept the second option was made and seconded, and the Council 
approved a unanimous vote to accept this option. 
DISCUSSION 
Except in an emergency, a public body must post notice of every meeting "at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays," and 
must include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
2 
===PAGE 3===
the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting 
notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of issues to be 
discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to 
include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the 
topic and understand what the nature of the public body's discussion will be. See OML 
2015-35; OML 2013-39.3 
The complaint alleges that the Council discussed and voted on a proposed tax rate 
during its December 5, 2016 meeting that was not listed on the meeting notice. Two 
items on the December 5 meeting notice pertained to adopting tax rates. However, the 
notice only advised the public that the Council would be discussing the adoption of a rate 
that would increase taxes by approximately 9%. The public, as well as the Council, was 
unaware that a revised tax rate, which would increase taxes by approximately 7%, would 
be discussed that evening. However, a public body may discuss a topic not listed on a 
meeting notice if the topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the 
meeting. See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87. We find that to be the case here where 
Mayor Koch formulated an alternate tax proposal after being approached by individual 
Council members over the weekend and then presented such proposal to the Council after 
it had convened its December 5 meeting. 
The complaint further alleges that the Council could not, per the City Charter, 
approve the order appropriating $3.7 million where it was not duly noticed. The Division 
of Open Government is charged specifically with reviewing complaints to determine 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting Law allows a public body 
to discuss a topic that was not listed on a meeting notice if that topic was not reasonably 
anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting. Therefore we decline to 
review this allegation.4 
Here the December 5 notice included specific orders detailing the exact tax rate 
that the Council would discuss and approve, and did not simply list a broad discussion 
topic pertaining to the tax rate. As such, we strongly encourage public bodies to 
postpone discussion of topics that were not listed in the meeting notice until the topic 
may be included in a meeting notice, unless the circumstances demand immediate action 
by the public body. See OML 2011-23; OML 2013-87; OML 2013-197. While we do 
not find a violation here, we note our concern that a revised tax proposal, which is a topic 
of significant public interest, was presented to the Council for the first time at the 
December 5 meeting, and was discussed and voted on by the Council that evening. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass. gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 Although we do not review this allegation, we note that neither the complainant nor Solicitor Timmins 
could clarify which section of the City Charter requires that an appropriation be duly noticed, and we have 
been unable to locate such requirement. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
especially in light of the public hearing on the noticed tax rate that preceded the Council 
meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending 
with our office or the Council. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if 
you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: William Zamzow 
Quincy City Council 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt 
of a final order. 
4 