===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 12, 2016 
OML 2016-50 
Patricia Correa, Esq. 
Town of Brookline 
333 Washington Street 
Brookline, MA 02445 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Correa: 
This office received three related complaints from Sarah Sheldon, all dated January 19, 
2016, alleging that the Brookline Board of Selectmen (the "Board") and the Brookline School 
Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c, 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaints were originally filed with the Board and the Committee on November 20, 2015, and 
both public bodies responded in a joint letter dated December 2, 2015. In her complaints, Ms. 
Sheldon alleges that the two public bodies at issue violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) posting 
insufficient meeting notices; and (ii) holding three executive sessions without a proper purpose. 
Following our review, we find that neither the Board nor the Committee violated the 
Open Meeting Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the 
response letter, and the requests for further review filed with our office. We reviewed the notices 
of three joint meetings held by the Board and the Committee on May 12, June 9, and October 13, 
2015. We also reviewed the minutes of executive sessions held on these dates. 
We find the facts as follows. At issue are three joint meetings of the Board and the 
Committee. The first joint meeting was held on May 12, 2015. The meeting notice listed the 
following as the only topic: "Proposed Executive Session to consider the purchase, exchange, 
lease or value of real property." The next meeting was held on June 9, 2015. The notice of the 
second meeting listed the same anticipated topic: "Proposed Executive Session to consider the 
purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property." The third joint meeting was held on 
October 13, 2015. The notice for this meeting listed an anticipated executive session as follows: 
"Joint meeting of the Board of Selectmen and School Committee to discuss strategies relative to 
the purchase, lease or value of real property for potential use as the site of an additional 
elementary school." 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
The minutes of the May 12 and June 9, 2015 executive session minutes were released in 
December 2015. The minutes of the October 13, 2015 executive session have not been released, 
and we therefore do not recount their contents in this letter. We note, however, that all three 
executive session discussions concerned the potential lease of space for use as classrooms, and 
the potential purchase of a building as a new elementary school. The discussions included 
consideration of several potential sites as options for the new school. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). One permissible reason to 
convene in executive session is "[t]o consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real 
property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
negotiating position of the public body." Id. at §21(a)(6) ("Purpose 6"). Purpose 6 is intended to 
preserve confidentiality in negotiating the value of the property to be purchased, exchanged or 
leased to avoid putting the public body at a disadvantage in its negotiations for the property. See 
District Attv. for the Plymouth Dist. v. Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 631 (1985). 
The complaints allege that the meeting notices failed to provide sufficient information 
about what properties the Board and the Committee would discuss. When noticing an executive 
session pursuant to Purpose 6, a public body must identify the property to be discussed if doing 
so would not compromise the purpose for which the executive session was called. See OML 
2016-5; OML 2014-136; OML 2013-97.' Here, the discussions concerned the purchase or lease 
of real property and the public bodies involved were justifiably concerned that disclosing 
specific information regarding the properties would generate public interest in them and 
compromise the Town of Brookline's negotiating position. Accordingly, the Board and the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by omitting identifying information regarding 
the properties under consideration. 
The complaints also allege that the Board and the Committee lacked a valid puipose to 
hold these discussions in executive session. As discussed above, the three executive sessions at 
issue were held so that the Board and the Committee could discuss the lease or purchase of real 
property. This brings the discussions squarely within the scope of Purpose 6. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a)(6). The Board and the Committee therefore did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this 
respect. The complaints argue that the public interest in these matters is significant. We do not 
dispute that members of the public may wish to observe deliberations among public bodies 
involving the purchase of real estate, however the Open Meeting Law permits such discussions 
to take place in executive session. Id. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find no violations of the Open Meeting Law. We now 
consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does 
not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the public bodies at 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.niass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
issue in this letter. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 If you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc; Sarah Sheldon 
Brookline Board of Selectmen 
Brookline School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 