===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
July 16,2019 
OML 2019-84
Frances Parks
Cotuit Prudential Committee Chairwoman 
Cotuit Fire District 
P.O. Box 1475 
Cotuit, MA 02635
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Ms. Parks:
This office received a complaint from Amy Kates, on April 12, 2019, alleging that the 
Cotuit Fire District Prudential Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on March 10 and 
the Committee responded by letter on or about March 15.1 In her complaint, Ms. Kates alleges 
that the Committee did not create adequate minutes of a workshop held on February 6.2
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to create sufficiently detailed minutes. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the 
complaint, the Committee’s response, and the request for further review. We also spoke to Ms. 
Kates by phone on June 6 and Chairwoman Frances on June 27. Finally, we reviewed the 
architects’ memorandum and the Committee’s minutes from the February 6 workshop.
1 Unless otherwise noted, all dates refer to 2019.
2 The complaint also alleges that the Committee met without recording the meeting on February 6. However, the 
Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to record their meetings. The Division only has jurisdiction to 
review allegations of Open Meeting Law violations and therefore we decline to review allegations relating to this 
issue. The Complainant also alleges in the request for further review that the meeting was inaccessible to the public. 
Because this allegation was not raised in the original complaint filed with the Committee, we decline to review it. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); OML 2012-38; OML 2012-92. However, if the meeting was in fact held behind a locked 
door marked “for personnel only,” that would be a significant violation. We remind the Committee that the Open 
Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be open and accessible to the public. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); 
OML 2012-46. Access must include the opportunity to be physically present as well as to see and hear what is being 
discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2013-189, OML 2012-66; OML 2012-48; OML 2014-3.

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a three-person public body; thus any two 
members constitute a quorum. On February 6, two members of the Committee joined the Cotuit 
Fire Chief, Fire Commission Chair and Assistant Treasurer for a presentation by several 
architects about two possible plans the architects had drawn up for improving the Cotuit fire 
station. The two members of the Committee present were Chairwoman Frances Parks and Lisa 
Mycock-Kelly. During the presentation, the architects presented two detailed plans and received 
substantive feedback from the Cotuit representatives. At the end of the presentation, the 
architects were tasked with updating their plans, based on the feedback given, before the next 
meeting of the Committee on February 11. At the next meeting, the Committee planned to decide 
between the two options. The architects produced a detailed memorandum memorializing the 
presentation and feedback given at the workshop.
On March 5, Ms. Kates requested the minutes of the February 11 workshop and was sent 
a copy of the architects’ memorandum. On March 10, Ms. Kates filed her Open Meeting Law 
complaint with Chairwoman Parks, who then sent draft minutes of the workshop to Ms. Kates on 
March 11,3 Chairwoman Parks also responded by letter to the Division of Open Government, 
which was received on March 15.
DISCUSSION
I. The February 6 “workshop” constituted a meeting under the Open Meeting Law.
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbi'idge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Thus, the law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Open Meeting Law defines a “meeting” as “a deliberation 
by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
“Deliberation” is defined, in relevant part, as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.” Id.
Here, although the Committee describes the February 6 presentation by the architects as a 
“workshop,” we find that it was a meeting for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. First, because 
two members of the Committee, Chairwoman Frances Parks and Lisa Mycock-Kelly, attended 
the workshop, there was a quorum of the Committee present. Second, the Committee’s 
discussion of the merits of the two plans was a subject squarely within the Committee’s 
jurisdiction. Finally, because members of the Committee gave feedback about the two plans
3 We are cognizant of the fact that the minutes that the Committee sent to Ms. Kates and to this office were, at the 
time, in draft form. In the past, we have declined to find violations of the Open Meeting Law with regard to 
sufficiency of meeting minutes that are in draft form when the time for approving minutes has not yet passed, 
because the public body could still edit the minutes and address any insufficiencies before finalizing and approving 
the minutes. See OML 2018-73; OML 2018-20. Here, however, we note that the Committee has subsequently 
approved the February 6 meeting minutes, apparently in the same fonn as the draft minutes that were previously 
provided.
2

===PAGE 3===
during the workshop, we find that the Committee deliberated.4 Therefore, for Open Meeting Law 
purposes, the Committee held a meeting on February 6.
II. The Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to create sufficiently detailed
minutes.
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Minutes of all open sessions shall be created and 
approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).5
Here, neither the architects’ memorandum nor the minutes created by Chairwoman Parks 
are sufficiently detailed to satisfy the Open Meeting Law. The architects’ memorandum does not 
contain several types of information required for minutes under the Open Meeting Law, 
including the time and place of the meeting, nor a list of all documents and exhibits used. For 
these reasons, the architects’ memorandum could not serve as minutes for the Committee’s 
meeting. See OML 2015-65.
With respect to the Committee’s minutes, we also find that they were not detailed enough 
in their summary of the discussion that took place. While a transcript is not required, minutes 
must include a summary of the pubic body’s discussions of each subject. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. In a single short paragraph, the minutes describe what was 
written in three full pages in the architects’ memorandum. In the minutes, each of the two new 
designs was described in one sentence and then, “[t]he pros and con of both plans were 
reviewed.” This last sentence was particularly lacking, because it does not make clear whether 
the architects or the town representatives “reviewed” the option. Furthermore, we know from the 
architects’ memorandum that the town representatives provided substantive and detailed 
feedback on each plan, yet none of that feedback is described in the minutes. Therefore, we find 
that the Committee’s minutes were insufficient and the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to create adequate minutes.
III. We decline to find the violation of the Open Meeting Law to be intentional.
The complainant urges us to find an intentional violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
Where a public body has previously violated the Open Meeting Law in a similar way, that may 
be considered evidence of an intentional violation of the law. We have found that the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law on several occasions in the last five years. However, we note 
that those violations related to different requirements of the law. See OML 2014-70 (failure to
4 If, on the other hand, the architects had made a presentation and the Committee had merely received information, 
without engaging in discussions or offering input or feedback, the workshop may not have been a meeting subject to 
the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2017-118; OML 2019-79.
5 Although the complaint does not allege a failure to timely approve minutes, we remind the Committee of its 
obligation to approve minutes in a timely manner under the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, §22(c). A “timely 
manner” is considered to be within the next three public body meetings or 30 days from the date of the meeting, 
whichever is later. 940 CMR 29.11.
3

===PAGE 4===
respond to Open Meeting Law Complaint in a timely manner); OML 2014-90 (improper 
executive session); OML 2016-61 (deliberation by email).
The Committee was twice found in violation of the Open Meeting Law for failure to 
produce detailed minutes and failure to approve minutes in a timely manner, both times over five 
years ago. See OML 2013-158; OML 2014-15; 940 CMR 29.04(l)(b). We also note that, based 
on our cursory review of the Committee’s meeting minutes as posted on its website, the 
Committee routinely creates meeting minutes that are far more detailed than those created for the 
February 6 workshop. We credit Chairwoman Park’s statement that, at the time of the meeting, 
she did not believe minutes were required for a workshop. For these reasons, we decline to find 
the Committee’s violation of the Open Meeting Law to be intentional.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to create sufficiently detailed minutes. We order the Committee to create and approve 
sufficiently detailed minutes for its February 6 meeting within 30 days from the receipt of this 
determination. We also order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law and caution the Committee that a similar future violation may be considered 
evidence of an intentional violation of the law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions.
Sincerely,
Sarah Chase 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Amy Kates
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
4
