===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
February 13, 2020 
OML 2020-20
James P. Lamanna 
Assistant City Solicitor 
Lynn Law Department 
3 City Hall Square, Room 406 
Lynn, MA 01901
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Lamanna:
This office received a complaint from Joanne Lindner on January 8, 2020, alleging that 
the Lynn City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' 
The complaint was originally filed with the Council on December 5, and you responded, on 
behalf of the Council, by letter dated January 27, 2020.1 2 The complaint alleges that the notice 
for the Council’s December 3 meeting was not posted to the City’s website and that the Council 
did not allow public participation during this meeting.3
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Council’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed the notice and open session minutes of the Council’s December 3 
meeting.
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2019.
2 We remind the Council that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, 
the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the 
complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of 
the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).
3 The complainant also raises concerns with the Council’s failure to hold a public hearing on a loan order. The 
Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The Open Meeting Law does not govern the requirements for conducting a public hearing. Therefore, we decline to 
review, and offer no opinion on, whether any actions taken by the Council could be a violation of any public hearing 
law or regulation. See OML 2014-31; OML Declination 1-25-18 (Rowley Planning Board); OML Declination 1-29- 
15 (Holbrook Planning Board).

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The official method of posting notice for the City of Lynn 
is a handicap accessible revolving electronic bulletin board located at the rear entrance of City 
Hall. In addition, notices are posted to a bulletin board located in the City Clerk’s Office in City 
Hall. The Council also posts its notices on the City of Lynn website, which can be found here: 
http://www. lynnma.gov/municipal_meetings. shtml?p7GPc=2_6#gpm2_6.
On November 26, the Council posted notice to the electronic bulletin board and with the 
City Clerk for a meeting to be held on Tuesday, December 3 at 8:00 P.M. Included with the 
Council’s notice were notices for two meetings of Council subcommittees also to be held on 
December 3 - the Ways and Means Committee at 7:15 P.M. and the Licensing Committee at 7:30 
P.M. The Council’s meeting notice listed two appointments, four public hearings, and an 
appropriation for the purchase of heavy equipment for the Fire Department and Department of 
Public Works. Specifically, two of the public hearings listed on this notice included amendments 
to the City’s Zone Ordinance for several waterfront districts. The Council’s notice also listed the 
Ways and Means Committee and the Licensing Committee but did not include any specific 
topics under either of these headers. The separate notice for the Ways and Means Committee 
included three topics - Financial Transfers, Financial Transfers/November 26, 2019, and Other 
Business; the separate notice for the Licensing Committee included five topics pertaining to 
various license renewals.
The Council also listed its December 3 meeting on the City of Lynn’s website. However, 
the notice document that was uploaded to the website next to the posting for the December 3 
meeting was actually the notice for the Council’s November 26 meeting.
The December 3 meeting was held as planned. The Ways and Means Committee met at 
7:15 P.M., the Licensing Committee met at 7:30 P.M., and the Council met at 8:00 P.M. During 
the Council’s meeting, it appointed an individual to the Citizens Advisory Board and appointed 
an individual as the chairman of the Grand Army of the Republic Trustees. The Council then 
held public hearings regarding a nuisance property, a package store liquor license, and zoning 
amendments for several waterfront districts, and received public comment during each hearing. 
With respect to the two amendments to the City’s Zone Ordinance for the waterfront districts, the 
Council tabled further discussion on one zoning amendment but granted the other amendment 
which related to seven waterfront districts. The Council then approved an appropriation for the 
purchase of heavy equipment for the Fire Department and Department of Public Works. Finally, 
the Council heard from the Ways and Means Committee and the Licensing Committee. 
Specifically, the Ways and Means Committee recommended the acceptance of three monetary 
gifts and two grants, as well as the adoption of a stabilization fund for golf course expenses, all 
of which the Council unanimously approved. The Ways and Means Committee also 
recommended the transfer of approximately $271,000 to six police department accounts and the 
transfer of $20,000 to two public safety injured accounts, which the Council unanimously 
approved. The Council then heard from the Licensing Committee regarding the renewal of 
various licenses and unanimously granted those licenses.
2

===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must be 
printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the 
meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The list of topics shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally 
consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read 
the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015- 
35.4
The complaint alleges that the December 3 notice was not properly posted because it was 
not posted to the City’s website. For local public bodies, notice shall be filed with the municipal 
clerk and posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on the 
municipal building in which the clerk’s office is located. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c). Alternatively, a 
municipality may designate a website as its official notice posting location for all public bodies 
within the municipality. 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b). The Council has not adopted the City’s website 
as the official method of posting notice. Rather, notices are posted to a revolving electronic 
bulletin board located at the rear entrance to City Hall. Even though an incorrect notice was 
posted to the website for the Council’s December 3 meeting, an accurate notice for the Council’s 
December 3 meeting was duly posted to the electronic bulletin board, which is the official notice 
posting method. Since the notice posted to the electronic bulletin board for the December 3 
meeting included the correct date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a list of reasonably 
anticipated topics, we find that the Council complied with the Open Meeting Law’s notice 
posting requirements and did not violate the law. See OML 2015-156.
The complaint also alleges that the Council limited public participation to five minutes 
for each resident. The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow public 
participation, but rather provides that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body 
without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.” G.L. 
c. 30A § 20(f). The law permits the Chair of the Council to decide who may speak at a meeting 
and for how long. See OML 2017-189; OML 2014-23; OML 2012-23. Thus, as it is within the 
Chair’s discretion to limit public participation during a meeting, he did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by doing so here. We do, however, encourage public bodies to allow for as much 
public participation as time and circumstances permit. See OML 2015-12; OML 2014-129; 
OML 2012-59.
Finally, the complaint suggests that the Council “ignored the recommended 
requirements” to the city’s waterfront and also questions whether financial transfers need to be 
listed on a notice. The Open Meeting Law requires that a “complainant shall file a written 
complaint with the public body, setting forth the circumstances which constitute the alleged 
violation and giving the body an opportunity to remedy the alleged violation.” G.L. c. 30A,
§ 23(b). As such, complainants must allege violations with a degree of specificity, as our office
4 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations. See OML 
Declination 3-20-12 (Wilmington Board of Assessors). Because the complaint does not provide 
any specific facts of what did or did not occur with respect to these two allegations, we decline to 
review them. See OML Declination 7-5-16 (Swansea School Committee).
Nevertheless, while not specifically raised in the complaint, we note our concern with the 
Council’s December 3 notice where it simply listed the Ways and Means Committee and the 
Licensing Committee as individual topics without any specific topics listed under these headers. 
We recognize that both the Ways and Means and Licensing Committees posted separate notices 
with a list of topics (financial transfers and license renewals, respectively), that those topics were 
presented to the Council during its December 3 meeting, and that the Council essentially 
approved the recommended financial transfers and license renewals as presented by each 
Committee. We have said that with respect to a list of donations, a public body does not need to 
include the specific names of the donors on the notice where such a topic does not require the 
Board’s discussion and/or approval but is listed instead as a perfunctory administrative task. See 
OML 2018-22. However, where a topic requires a public body’s approval or other specific 
decision, such as annual license renewals, the specific applicants should be listed on the notice. 
See OML 2017-33. We remind the Council of its obligations under the law and encourage it to 
further include such specific topics on its notices in the future.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Joanne Lindner
Lynn City Council
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
