===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
March 9, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 31 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Kate R. O’Brien, Esq.  
Town Attorney 
Town of West Springfield 
  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Attorney O’Brien: 
 
This office received a complaint from Antonio Sorcinelli on September 11, 2020,1 
alleging that Mayor William Reichelt, as Chair of the West Springfield School Committee (the 
“Committee”), violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Committee on or about August 12, and you responded on behalf of the 
Committee by letter dated August 26. The complaint alleges that the Committee posted an 
insufficient notice for its August 5 meeting.       
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Committee’s response, the request for further review, the Complainant’s reply to the 
Committee’s response, the notice of the August 5 meeting, a video recording of the August 5 
meeting,2 and an audio recording of the August 5 listening session. We also communicated with 
Town Counsel3 and with the Complainant.  
 
 
 
 
1 All dates in this determination are in 2020, unless otherwise stated.  
22 A recording of the Committee’s August 5 meeting may be found at 
https://livestream.com/accounts/5714082/events/6644563/videos/209488698. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
On July 31 the Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held virtually on August 5. 
The notice provided a Zoom link and dial-in phone number for the public to access the meeting. 
The notice included the following topics: 
 
A. MEETING CALLED TO ORDER / ROLL CALL 
 
B. SUPERINTENDENT REPORT 
1. Equity & Bias Planning (update) 
2. Introduction of West Springfield Board of Health Director and Members 
 
C. NEW BUSINESS 
1. Reopening of Schools ~ Community Listening Session. 
 
D. NEXT SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING – TBD 
 
E. ADJOURN MEETING.  
 
Access to the listening session was provided via a different phone number than the one 
used to access the meeting. The meeting notice did not include the access information for the 
listening session. Instead, that information was shared with the public through other means, 
including by posting on Facebook. 
 
The Committee convened its August 5 meeting with access provided via the information 
included on the meeting notice. The Committee’s meeting lasted approximately 8 minutes. 
Before the Committee voted to adjourn,4 the Chair announced that the listening session would 
begin shortly and where the public could find the access information for the listening session. 
The Chair also explained that the Committee would not be engaging in discussions with the 
public during the listening session, but rather that this was an opportunity for the Committee to 
hear from the public regarding their thoughts and concerns with reopening schools. After the 
Committee voted to adjourn, a slide was presented on the screen that included the dial-in 
information for the listening session.  
 
The superintendent moderated the listening session. Between 150 to 225 people attended 
the listening session, including the Complainant who also spoke during the session. The full 
Committee attended the listening session, but no members spoke.      
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). Every notice must include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics 
that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” Id. On March 12, 
 
4 We remind the Committee that when one or more members participate in a meeting remotely, all votes must be 
taken by roll call. 940 CMR 29.10(7)(c). 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Governor Baker issued an executive order temporarily suspending certain provisions of the Open 
Meeting Law during the state of emergency created by the outbreak of the 2019 novel 
Coronavirus. See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, 
§ 20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”). Relevant here, the Executive Order temporarily 
suspends the requirement that meetings be held in locations that are physically accessible to the 
public provided the public body provides adequate, alternative means of public access. See 
Executive Order at § 1. When access will be provided through “adequate, alternative means,” the 
meeting notice must include clear instructions for how to access the meeting remotely. See OML 
2020-132; OML 2020-102.5  
 
A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction; provided, however, ‘meeting’ shall not include: . . . 
(b) attendance by a quorum of a public body at a public or private gathering, including a 
conference or training program or a media, social or other event, so long as the members do not 
deliberate.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation,” in relevant part, as “an oral or 
written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a 
quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id. The Open Meeting 
Law does not require that a public body allow for public participation in its meetings, but rather 
provides that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the 
chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g). 
 
The Complainant asserts that because the notice for the August 5 meeting included the 
topic “C. NEW BUSINESS 1. Reopening of Schools ~ Community Listening Session,” the  
listening session was necessarily a part of the Committee’s August 5 meeting, and that by 
holding the listening session separately from the Committee’s meeting, the Committee violated 
the Open Meeting Law. We disagree. First, although the Open Meeting Law requires meeting 
notices to include a list of the topics the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed, it does not 
require that a public body discuss or address every topic included on the meeting notice. See 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25; OML 2012-23 (“The law does not prohibit a public body from removing, 
postponing, or declining to discuss a topic listed on a meeting notice or agenda.”). Furthermore, 
the Committee was not required to provide for public participation. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g); 
OML 2017-83. Therefore, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
when it included the listening session on its meeting notice but did not in fact hold a listening 
session as part of its meeting. Nor do we find that the Committee violated the Law when the 
Committee voted to adjourn its August 5 meeting and thereafter attended a listening session at 
which no members of the Committee deliberated. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2020-19.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with 
our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions. 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Antonio Sorcinelli (via email: )  
William Reichelt, Chair of the West Springfield School Committee (via e-mail: 
 
West Springfield School Committee (via e-mail:  
  
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
