===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
wvvw.mass.gov/ago 
July 18,2017 
OML 2017-117 
Katherine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
30 Green Street 
Newburyport, MA 01950 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan on April 20, alleging that 
the Ashland Board of Health (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about March 27, and 
you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated April 6. In his complaint, Mr. 
Morgan alleges that, during its March 21 meeting, the Board discussed topics that were not 
listed on the meeting notice posted more than 48 hours before the meeting. Mr. Morgan 
also alleges that the Board has not timely approved its meeting minutes since December 6, 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to list an anticipated topic on its meeting notice and by failing to approve minutes in 
a timely manner. We find that the Board's failure to approve minutes in a timely manner 
to be an intentional violation. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review. We also reviewed the notice, minutes and video-recording2 of 
the Board's March 21 meeting. Finally, we reviewed the minutes from all of the Board 
meetings held between December 6, 2016 and March 27, 2017. 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise indicated. 
2 Available at https://livestream.com/WACA-TVAshland/events/4739881/videos/152329538. 
2016. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On Monday, March 13, the Board received an Open 
Meeting Law complaint (the "March 13 complaint"). On Friday, March 17, counsel for 
the Board and Board member Jon Fetherston, who was chair of the Board at the time, 
discussed the complaint. The two decided to add the complaint as a topic on the notice for 
the Board's next meeting scheduled for Tuesday, March 21 at 7 PM. That same day, our 
office scheduled a telephone interview with counsel and Mr. Fetherston for March 22 
concerning a separate complaint pending with our office (the "December 1, 2016 
complaint"). The town clerk's office was closed on Friday, therefore the Board added the 
March 13 complaint as a discussion topic on Monday, March 20, as follows: "Open 
Meeting Law Complaint filed by S. Morgan (*this subject was not anticipated and has 
been added to the agenda)." Neither the original nor the revised notice listed Mr. 
Fetherston's interview as a topic. However, the original and revised notices did list the 
following meeting minutes for approval; December 6, 2016; December 9, 2016; February 
1, 2017; February 21, 2017; and March 7, 2017. 
During the meeting, the Board briefly discussed the March 13 complaint, but did 
not approve a response because counsel needed additional time for its review.3 Mr. 
Fetherston also advised the Board about the interview scheduled with our office for the 
following day concerning another complaint. A Board member asked Mr. Fetherston 
which complaint would be discussed during the interview and whether he could also 
attend, to which Mr. Fetherston clarified that it was a telephone interview about the 
December 1, 2016 complaint. 
Although listed as topics for discussion on the March 21 meeting notice, the Board 
did not review any of the draft minutes. Mr. Fetherston advised the Board that "minutes 
are not being approved in a timely fashion." However, a vote to extend the meeting to 
review the minutes failed and the meeting adjourned. Despite the backlog being listed as a 
topic on the notice for each meeting before and after this complaint was filed, the Board 
postponed its review of the minutes during most of those meetings. The Board finally 
approved the five sets of minutes on June 20. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to List an 
Anticipated Topic on its March 21 Meeting Notice. 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice of a meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, including a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will 
be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list 
topics on a notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues 
3 On March 17, our office granted the Board an extension of time to respond to the complaint. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2014-47.4 We generally 
consider a topic sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read 
the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 
2015-35. 
The complaint alleges that the Board discussed the March 13 Open Meeting Law 
complaint during its March 21 meeting that was added as a topic on the notice just one day 
before the meeting. The Board had received the complaint on or about March 13. Mr. 
Fetherston discussed the complaint with the Board's counsel on March 17, at which time 
counsel advised him to add it as a topic to the notice of a meeting already posted for 
Tuesday, March 21. We find that Mr. Fetherston anticipated raising the topic following his 
conversation with counsel on Friday afternoon, March 17, at the latest, which was more 
than 48 hours before the Tuesday evening meeting, excluding the weekend. We appreciate 
that the town clerk's office was closed on Friday. Nevertheless, because the topic was 
indeed anticipated at least 48 hours before the meeting, the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by proceeding with a discussion about the topic because it was not listed on 
the notice at least 48 hours before the meeting. See OML 2016-101; OML 2015-12. 
On March 17, our office scheduled a telephone interview with Mr. Fetherston and 
the Board's counsel regarding the pending December 1, 2016 complaint. The complaint 
alleges that the Board improperly discussed this complaint during its March 21 meeting 
because it was not listed on the meeting notice. The law requires that the notice include a 
"listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b) (emphasis added). Where, as was the case here, a topic is raised for 
the sole purpose of providing an update to the public body and no further discussion 
ensues, it is not a topic that is anticipated for discussion and therefore does need to be 
listed on the notice.5 See OML 2017-90 (finding that a Town Administrator's status 
update to the Board about various pending projects did not need to be listed on the notice); 
cf. OML 2016-13 (concluding that an anticipated report to the public body is a topic that 
"will be discussed" at a meeting, particularly where it concerns a topic that is likely to 
invoke questions or comments, either by public body members or members of the public). 
Although not defined in the Open Meeting Law, "discuss" is defined as, "to 
investigate (as a question) by reasoning or argument; argue by presenting the various sides 
of; debate[.]" Webster's Third New International Dictionary of the English Language, 648 
(unabridged ed. 1964). Here, Mr, Fetherston notified the Board about the scheduled 
interview with our office and no discussion followed this notification, other than a request 
for him to clarify which complaint would be discussed during the interview. Mr. 
Fetherston also clarified that it was a telephone, rather than in-person, interview. This 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 We note that updates provided by public body members are still deemed "deliberation," as they constitute 
communication between or among a quorum of the public body, and thus may be presented only during a 
properly posted meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
brief exchange does not constitute a "discussion" because, other than a few clarifying 
questions about the interview, no one expressed an opinion or otherwise engaged in a 
debate on the topic. The Board moved on to another topic after being informed about the 
interview. Because the Board did not engage in a discussion on this topic, we find that it 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law by allowing the information to be presented 
notwithstanding the absence of the topic from the notice. 
II. The Board Intentionally Violated the Open Meeting Law bv Failing to 
Timely Approve Meeting Minutes. 
The Open Meeting Law also requires that minutes be approved in a timely manner. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). Although the Open Meeting Law does not define "timely 
manner," we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting, 
whenever possible. See OML 2014-15; OML 2012-91. For bodies that meet regularly— 
that is, either weekly or bimonthly—we have concluded that a delay of two to three 
months in approving minutes violates the law. See OML 2016-118. 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to approve minutes from meetings held 
since December 6, 2016. We find that the Board failed to timely approve its December 6, 
2016 and December 9, 2016 meeting minutes.6 The Board's failure to approve the other 
meeting minutes at issue—the February 1; February 21; and March 7 meeting minutes— 
were not yet untimely at the time this complaint was filed because the meetings had 
recently occurred only a month or two before. Although the Board made some attempts to 
approve the backlog of minutes before and after the filing of this complaint, it repeatedly 
postponed its discussion of the topic, running afoul of the law's timeliness requirement. 
As a result, the backlog grew larger. The Board was advised by the Attorney General in 
OML 2016-155 that the Open Meeting Law requires that minutes be approved in a timely 
manner. In that decision, we found a violation because, despite its attempts, the Board had 
stalled on approving minutes for months. The Board again failed to comply with this 
requirement after a clear warning to do so, thus we find that this violation was intentional. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; 940 CMR 29.02; OML 2017-45. However, our office 
acknowledges that the Board attempted to approve the minutes, but its delay was partly 
caused by a lack of consensus among its members, rather than disregard for the law's 
requirements. Additionally, the Board finally took the necessary remedial steps to approve 
the backlog on June 20. Accordingly, we decline to recommend the imposition of a civil 
penalty in this instance. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c); OML 2015-122. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to list an anticipated topic on its meeting notice and by failing to approve 
minutes in a timely manner, We find that the Board's failure to timely approve minutes 
6 However, we note that the Board did not approve them until June 20, ultimately rendering that approval 
untimely as well. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
was intentional. We order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the law's 
requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law. Future intentional violations for failure to timely approve meeting 
minutes may result in a recommendation of a civil penalty. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerejy, 
Ml 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Stephen Morgan 
Ashland Board of Health 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
5 