===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY TEL; (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
March 14,2018 
OML 2018-33 
Bruce Cullett, Chair 
Peru Board of Selectmen 
7 East Main Road 
Peru, MA 01235 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Cullett: 
This office received a complaint from Kimberly Wetherell on December 29, alleging 
that the Peru Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about November 22, and 
you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated December 11. In her 
complaint, Ms. Wetherell alleges that, during its October 23 meeting, the Board discussed a 
topic that was not listed on its meeting notice.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notice and minutes from the Board's October 23 meeting. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board held a meeting on October 23, in part, to 
listen to status reports from various town departments. The meeting notice, posted on 
October 19, listed this topic as "Report from Departments." According to Board Chair Bruce 
Cullett, this portion of the meeting is reserved for department heads, members of boards and 
commissions and appointed or elected officials to provide the Board with "information, ask 
questions, and conduct town business." The individuals addressing the Board during any 
given meeting "fluctuate," and the Board does not know who will be present until the meeting 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise specified. 
2 In her request for further review, Ms. Wetherell alleges that the Board's October 27 meeting minutes are 
inaccurate. We decline to review this additional allegation because it is beyond the scope of the original 
complaint filed with the public body. See OML 2015-56. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
begins. Occasionally, however, a department head informs Chair Cullett about a topic in 
advance of the meeting when it is necessary for the Board to discuss and vote on that topic. 
In those instances, the topic is specifically listed on the meeting notice. 
During this particular meeting, the town administrator presented a status report to the 
Board, which included an issue he raised regarding an attempt to schedule a site visit with the 
Conservation Commission. Later in the meeting, the Board directed the town administrator to 
send a memorandum to all town boards, committees and employees "to remind people that the 
Town Administrator works as an extension of the Select Board." 
DISCUSSION 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must be 
printed in a legible, easily understandable fonnat and must contain the date, time and place of 
the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed. Id, The list of topics shall have "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03 (l)(b). We generally 
consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read 
the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 
2015-35.3 
The complaint alleges that the Board discussed a topic during its October 23 meeting 
that was not listed on the meeting notice. The topic—the town administrator's attempt to 
schedule a site visit with the Conservation Commission—arose during the town 
administrator's report to the Board, listed on the notice as, "Report from Departments." 
According to Chair Cullett, the topic was not specifically listed on the notice because he did 
not anticipate that the town administrator would raise it during the meeting. See G.L. c. 3OA, 
§ 20(b). Because the topic was unanticipated, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by proceeding with a discussion of it. Although we find no violation, we encourage 
Chair Cullett to solicit a more detailed set of topics from the town administrator for the 
meeting notice when the Chair anticipates that the town administrator (and other department 
heads) will provide such a report. See OML 2017-90; OML 2011-23. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law, We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Kimberly Wetherell 
This determination was issued pursuant to G,L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 