===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 2, 2026 
  
OML 2026 – 38 
 
VIA EMAIL  
  
Ian Barber, Esq. 
Assistant Corporation Counsel 
City of Boston Law Department 
 
Ian.Barber@Boston.gov 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Attorney Barber:  
 
This office received a complaint from Johanna Hynes on October 14, 2025, alleging that 
the Study Committee of the Monument Square Landmark District Under Study (the 
“Committee”)1 violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.2  The complaint 
originally was filed with the Committee on August 12 and you responded on behalf of the 
Committee on September 11.  Ms. Hynes attended a meeting held by the Committee on July 16 
remotely.  Ms. Hynes alleges that: (1) the July 16 meeting was inaudible to remote participants 
for extended periods of time; (2) remote participants were denied the access to the July 16 
meeting enjoyed by members of the public who attended in person; (3) her microphone was 
muted arbitrarily during the meeting; and (4) the Committee failed to provide reasonable 
accommodation and effective access. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee vio
 lated the Open Meeting Law by 
holding a hybrid meeting that was largely inaudible to those who attended remotely.  We find 
that the Committee did not fail to provide a reasonable accommodation.  We decline to review 
the remaining allegations of the complaint as they do not allege a violation of the Open Meeting 
Law.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s 
response to the complaint, and Ms. Hynes’s request for further review.  We reviewed a recording 
 
1 Notice of the meeting that is the subject of the complaint references both the Committee and the City of Boston 
Landmarks Commission (the “Commission”).  The complaint was directed to the Commission and the Office of 
Historic Preservation.  As it appears that the meeting was held by the Committee, and not the Commission, we read 
the allegations to be directed to the Committee.   
2 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2025 unless otherwise indicated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
of the July 16 meeting.3  We also reviewed the notice and minutes of the July 16 meeting and 
email communications between Ms. Hynes and the Committee.  Finally, we communicated with 
you and with Ms. Hynes via email. 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  On July 3, the Committee posted notice for a hybrid 
meeting (i.e. a meeting that could be attended by the public in person or remotely) to be held on 
July 16.  The notice was available directly on the Boston.gov page.  That notice included the date 
and time of the meeting, and the list of topics to be discussed.  At the top of the notice was the 
following language: 
 
ATTENTION: This hearing will be held virtually and in-person. You can participate in this 
hearing by going to our online meeting (https://zoom.us/j/96256372272) or calling 
1-929-436-2866 (tel:1-929-436-2866) and entering meeting id # 962 5637 2272. You can also 
submit written comments or questions to BLC@boston.gov (mailto:SouthEndLDC@boston.gov). 
You can attend this meeting in-person at the Bunker Hill Museum at 43 Monument Square, 
Charlestown. 
 
In red all caps font, the notice stated “THE PUBLIC CAN OFFER TESTIMONY.”   
 
The notice also contained a link to the “official filed posting.”  The “official filed 
posting,” a .pdf file, also contained the date and time of the meeting and the list of topics.  It 
included a zoom link and directions on how to enter the physical meeting space.  It did not 
include language concerning submitting written comments or questions or language that the 
public could offer testimony. 
 
 On July 14, Ms. Hynes emailed the Committee , asking that members of the public be able 
to use the Zoom chat function and that their microphones not be muted during the July 16 
meeting.  The next day, Gabriela Amore, the Commission’s Project Lead, responded that it is the 
policy of the Office of Historic Preservation not to make the chat function available during 
meetings.  She stated that, as indicated in the notice, members of the public may submit written 
comments or questions to BLC@Boston.gov.   
 
 The July 16 meeting went forward as scheduled.  Ms. Hynes attended the meeting 
remotely.  At the beginning of the meeting, it was announced that the chat was disabled and that 
microphones were muted.  Those attending the meeting remotely were told that they should use 
the “raise hand” function to be unmuted.  The speaker also announced: “If anyone on the call 
can’t hear at any point, send an email or raise your hand.”  Committee staff monitored the Zoom 
screen for raised hands.  For extended periods of time during the meeting, the audio was faint, 
muffled and choppy to those who attended remotely.  The Committee had experienced similar 
audio issues during its previous meeting, held on June 18.  Prior to the start of the July 16 
meeting, the Committee attempted to improve the audio for remote attendees by adjusting the 
location of the speaker and microphone.    
 
3 The recording was accessed at https://www.boston.gov/sites/default/files/file/2025/07/GMT20250716-
223332_Recording.m4a.  The recording is audio only. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
One remote attendee (not Ms. Hynes) emailed the Committee during the July 16 meeting, 
complaining about the audio.  In response to the email, the Committee repositioned equipment 
but based on our review of the recording, it does not appear that the repositioning improved the 
audio.  Additionally, the Committee invited the attendee to email any comments or questions and 
offered to schedule a telephone call with staff.  The attendee was encouraged to remain on the 
Zoom to view the slide deck. 
 
Approximately one hour into the July 16 meeting, the Committee reached public 
comment.  Ms. Hynes used the “raise hand” function and was unmuted.  (She did not use the 
“raise hand” function prior to public comment.)  Once unmuted, Ms. Hynes expressed her 
frustration with the audio, stating that she could not hear anything during the meeting.  She then 
asked about the boundaries of the proposed district, a question fielded by “Elizabeth” 
(presumably Executive Director of Boston Landmarks Commission Elizabeth Sherva).  
 
The following exchange ensued: 
 
Ms. Hynes: Will Bunker Hill monument be included in this district? 
Elizabeth: No. 
Ms. Hynes: Oh.  You need to repeat that: The Bunker Hill monument will not be 
included? 
Elizabeth: We’re going to move on. 
 
The two speakers briefly talked over one another until the Committee or staff muted Ms. 
Hynes.  After Ms. Hynes was muted, Elizabeth then stated that they had already discussed this 
issue “so we’re going to move on unless you have any other comments.”  Knowing that she was 
muted, Ms. Hynes used the raise hand function in an attempt to share further comments but she 
was not unmuted.  There was a brief pause and then the Committee turned to other comments.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Committee violated the law when it held a hybrid meeting that was largely 
inaudible to those who attended remotely. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement 
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except 
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”).  
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present as well as to 
see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2020-100; 
OML 2018-75; OML 2016-54.4  To satisfy the Open Meeting Law’s requirement that meetings 
be open and accessible to the public, a meeting notice must inform the public of the “place” 
where it can access the meeting.  See OML 2021-28.  See also OML 2021-73 (finding that public 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
body “failed to provide real-time access to the meeting . . . as the notice failed to include 
sufficient information regarding the location of the remote meeting”); OML 2020-102. 
 
We have consistently stated that a public body is not required to provide remote access to 
its
 meetings, so long as the meetings are held in-person at a location that is open and physically 
accessible to the public.  See OML 2023-225; OML 2022-158; OML 2021-79.5  However, where 
a notice provides for both in-person and remote access, the offer to attend remotely must be 
genuine.  See OML 2025-184 (finding violation where notice advised those wishing to attend 
remotely to request link and link was not provided in response to request); OML 2021-147 
(noting that a public body that “uses a Zoom waiting room in order to manually admit members 
of the public to the meeting, . . . must ensure that attendees are promptly admitted to the meeting 
at the start of and throughout the duration of the meeting”).  Inclusion of a remote option on the 
notice creates an expectation on the part of the public that they will be provided with remote 
access.   
 
Notice of the July 16 meeting offered in person or remote attendance at the pleasure of 
the attendee, without signaling to the public that one of the methods of access may not be 
reliable.  Cf. OML 2023-52 (no violation where notice included language “Please note that the 
in-person meeting will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the 
remote connection”); OML 2023-225 (notice stated that phone line was offered “as a courtesy”).  
We listened to the recording of the meeting at full volume and could not follow the discussion 
during most of the meeting due to the poor audio.  There was a vote at the beginning of the 
meeting but we could not hear what the motion voted on was.  Occasionally, a word, phrase or 
brief explanation was clear.  Without context, though, it was not possible to follow the discussion 
even where brief passages could be understood.  Nicholas Armata’s narration of boundaries was 
at times audible.  However, contributions by another member of the Committee, and questions 
by the public, could not be understood.  Similarly, some of the discussion of standards and 
criteria could be heard but that discussion could not be followed as a whole.   
 
Members of the public who otherwise would have appeared in person may have decided 
to attend remotely on the reasonable assumption that they would be able to follow the public 
body’s discussion remotely.  See OML 2025-184.  It is true that remote attendees were told to 
alert the Committee if there were audio issues and that one person did so.  However, this 
announcement was not sufficient where the audio issues persisted.  For those who attended 
remotely and could not follow the Committee’s deliberations, the meeting was not truly open to 
the public.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  Additionally, the Committee was on notice of the potential 
for audio problems after its experience during the June 18 meeting.  Where the notice identified 
the “location” of the meeting as being equally in-person or remote, it was incumbent on the 
Committee to ensure the viability of remote access for all attendees.  Because it failed to do so, it 
violated the Open Meeting Law.  We appreciate the Committee’s efforts to address one 
 
5 Only when all public body members participate in a meeting remotely or when a public body meets in person 
without providing the public physical access to the meeting location must a public body provide the public with 
adequate, alternative access to the meeting.  See OML 2025- 68; 2020-111; OML 2020-100; Chapter 2 of the Acts 
of 2025, An Act Extending Certain COVID-19 Measures Adopted During the State of Emergency.  Such alternative 
access must be adequate; meaning, the public must be able to clearly follow the proceedings of the public body in 
real-time. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
attendee’s complaint by offering an opportunity to email questions and to schedule a later 
telephone call with staff.  However, this attempted resolution does not satisfy the Committee’s 
obligation to provide access to a meeting in real time, nor the obligation that such access be 
provided to all members of the public wishing to attend the meeting.  See OML 2022-180; OML 
2021-17. 
 
While the Committee denies any violation of the Open Meeting Law, it acknowledges in 
its response that speakers were not always audible to virtual attendees during the meeting.  The 
Committee therefore has decided that it will no longer offer remote access to meetings held at the 
Bunker Hill Museum, the location of the July 16 meeting.  The Committee, of course, is free to 
discontinue remote access, so long as it provides in person access in compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law.  We note, however, that in the past we have found no violation where the language 
of a meeting notice clearly cautions the public that the remote access may not function and the 
in-person meeting went forward regardless of technical difficulties.  See OML 2023-225 (music 
on phone line did not violate Open Meeting Law even if it made it difficult to hear meeting, 
where notice provided phone line “as a courtesy” to the public, stated that “the meeting will not 
be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual broadcast” and urged 
in-person attendance for those with a “particular interest” in a topic to be discussed); OML 2023-
52 (notice included language “Please note that the in-person meeting will not be suspended or 
terminated if technological problems interrupt the remote connection”).  Although public bodies 
are not required to provide multiple means of access to a meeting, we encourage public bodies to 
do so where this provides the greatest means of access to the public and furthers the Open 
Meeting Law’s transparency goals.  See OML 2026-15; OML 2025-125.   
 
II. The Committee did not fail to provide a reasonable accommodation. 
 
For a meeting to be “open to the public,” as required by the Open Meeting Law, it must 
be hel
d in a location that is compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”).  See 
OML 2024-130; OML 2020-47; OML 2012-49.  At a minimum, meetings of public bodies that 
are held in person must be held in ADA-compliant locations, even in the absence of any 
particular request or known accessibility need.  See, e.g., OML 2024-130 (explaining that public 
body violated Open Meeting Law when meeting was held in non-ADA compliant location, even 
without evidence that any person was unable to attend as a result); OML 2023-43 (same).  Title 
II of the ADA requires that municipal services, including public meetings, be made accessible to 
people with disabilities, and therefore additional reasonable accommodations must be provided 
to people with disabilities upon request.  See 42 U.S.C. §§ 12131-12165 (1990); OML 2025-197; 
OML 2014-109; OML 2012-49.   
 
Prior to the July 16 meeting, Ms. Hynes asked that members of the public be able to use 
the Zoom chat function and that their microphones and cameras be on during the July 16 
meeting.  The request was denied.  In her complaint, Ms. Hynes has labeled the denial of her 
request a failure to provide a reasonable accommodation.  However, Ms. Hynes made this 
request on behalf of herself and everyone else attending remotely; she was not seeking a 
reasonable accommodation of a disability.  Because there was no request for a reasonable 
accommodation of a disability, the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
III. We decline to review allegations that remote attendees were denied the same 
access as in person attendees and that Ms. Hynes’s microphone was muted 
arbitrarily. 
 
The crux of Ms. Hynes’s remaining allegations is that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by limiting remote attendees’ ability to communicate with the Committee, 
including the ability to contribute to public comment.  The Open Meeting Law does not require 
that a public body allow public participation during its meetings.  To the contrary, it provides 
that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and 
all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.”  G.L. c. 30A § 20(f).  The Open Meeting 
Law permits the chair of a public body to decide who may speak at a meeting and for how long.  
See OML 2021-133; OML 2017-189; OML 2014-23.  Public participation in a remote or hybrid 
meeting is left to the discretion of the chair, just as it is with a meeting conducted in person.  See 
OML 2024-63 (declining to review allegation that complainant was muted during remote 
meeting); OML 2021-15 (board did not violate Open Meeting Law when it muted complainant 
during meeting); OML 2021-91 (board did not violate Open Meeting Law when it muted 
members of the public and disabled chat feature during remote meeting).  Because the chair has 
complete discretion under the Open Meeting Law to limit or disallow public participation, the 
Division of Open Government does not review allegations regarding restrictions on public 
comment.  We therefore decline to review allegations that the Committee improperly disabled 
the Zoom chat and remote attendees’ cameras, and muted Ms. Hynes’s microphone, effectively 
cutting off her public comment.   
 
Ms. Hynes suggests that a member of the public attending in person would not so easily 
be interrupted during public comment.  It is true that someone attending in person could not be 
rendered voiceless by the click of a button.  During an in person meeting, however, the chair still 
has tools at their disposal to terminate a person’s public comment.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g) 
(“No person shall disrupt the proceedings of a meeting of a public body.  If, after clear warning 
from the chair, a person continues to disrupt the proceedings, the chair may order the person to 
withdraw from the meeting and if the person does not withdraw, the chair may authorize a 
constable or other officer to remove the person from the meeting.”).  See also OML 2025-97; 
OML 2022-197 (“Because it is within the Chair’s discretion whether to allow public comment at 
all, as well as to establish parameters for public participation during a meeting, an allegation that 
Mr. Dupuis’ public comment was cut short would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting 
Law in any event.”).  To the extent that the Committee had not elected a chair by the time of the 
July 16 meeting, we find that the moderator chaired the subject meeting and enjoyed the same 
discretion to control public comment as would an elected chair.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee vio lated the Open Meeting Law 
when it held a hybrid meeting that was largely inaudible to those who attended remotely.  We 
order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar 
future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,  
   
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Johanna Hynes (via email: ) 
Elizabeth Sherva, Study Committee of the Monument Square Landmark District Under 
Study (via email: elizabeth.sherva@boston.gov) 
 Alex Geourntas, City Clerk (via email: cityclerk@boston.gov) 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
