===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
 
       November 13 , 2024 
 
OML 2024 - 211 
 
 
Robert W. Galvin, Esq. 
Galvin & Galvin, PC 
10 Enterprise Street, Suite 3 
Duxbury, MA 02332 
 
By email only: rwgalvin@galvin-legal.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Galvin: 
 
This office received a complaint from Paula Sterite on February 7, 2024, and a complaint 
from Attorney Ivria Fried on February 16, 2024, alleging that the Everett School Committee (the 
“Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  Ms. Sterite’s complaint 
was originally filed with the Committee on or about December 20, 2023, Attorney Fried’s 
complaint was originally filed with the Committee on December 28, 2023, and you
1 responded 
to both complaints, on behalf of the Committee, by separate letters dated January 19, 2024.  Both 
complaints allege insufficiencies with a notice for a December 20, 2023, Committee meeting.  
Specifically, Ms. Sterite’s complaint alleges that the Committee posted notice for an Everett 
Retirement Board meeting rather than a Committee meeting.  Attorney Fried’s complaint alleges 
that the notice failed to include i) the names of the two candidates the Committee planned to 
interview for Superintendent, ii) the nonunion personnel with whom the Committee would be 
conducting contract negotiations, and iii) the date and time that the notice was revised. 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters.  Following 
our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to identify on 
the original notice the nonunion personnel with whom it would be negotiating in executive 
session and by failing to include the date and time that the revised notices were posted.  We find 
 
1 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged.  In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Committee’s responses to the 
complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review.  In addition, we 
reviewed the original and amended notices and minutes of the Committee meeting held on 
December 20, 2023, as well as a video recording of that meeting.2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On December 18, 2023, at 11:37 A.M., the Committee 
posted notice of a meeting to be held on December 20, 2023, at 7:00 P.M.  The notice included 
one open session topic and one executive session topic.  The open session topic was listed as 
“Discussion/Interviews of two Superintendent Finalists, deliberation and vote on new 
Superintendent.”  The executive session topic was listed as “To discuss strategy session in 
preparation for negotiations with non-union personnel and/or to conduct bargaining sessions or 
contract negotiations with non-union personnel.” 
 
On December 20, 2023, at 2:10 P.M., the Committee posted an amended notice and 
included the names of the two Superintendent finalists, Dr. Kimberly Fricker and William Hart,  
that the Committee planned to interview in open session.  That same day at 3:29 P.M., the 
Committee amended the notice again and included the non-union personnel – Superintendent of 
Schools – that it planned to discuss in executive session. 
 
The December 20, 2023, meeting was held as planned.  The Committee convened in open 
session and interviewed the two finalists for the position of Superintendent.  The Committee first 
heard from and asked questions of Dr. Fricker for approximately one hour.  At the conclusion of 
the first interview, the Committee recessed for about five minutes.  The Committee then heard 
from and asked questions of Mr. Hart for approximately one hour.  At the conclusion of the 
second interview, the Committee recessed for about five minutes.  The Committee reconvened 
and Committee member Michael McLaughlin made a motion, which was seconded by 
Committee member Cynthia Sarnie, to nominate William Hart as Superintendent of the Everett 
Public Schools.  The Committee discussed the two candidates for the next 10 minutes and then 
unanimously voted to appoint Mr. Hart as Superintendent. 
 
Chair Mike Mangan then announced that the Committee would convene in executive 
session to discuss strategy in preparation for contract negotiations with the Superintendent and to 
thereafter adjourn from executive session.  The Committee unanimously voted to convene in 
executive session.
3   
 
 
 
 
2 A video recording of the December 20, 2023, Committee meeting is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/live/LymuoVycvBA. 
3 We remind the Committee that a public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into 
executive session and that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes.  G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 21(b).  A roll call vote is “the act or an instance of calling off a list of names.”  Webster’s Third New 
International Dictionary of the English Language, 683 (unabridged ed. 1961). 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and include 
“the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Public bodies are required to 
list topics on a notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to 
be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(1)(b).  We generally consider a topic sufficiently 
specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the 
anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2019-163; OML 2015-35.
4   
 
With respect to Ms. Sterite’s co
 mplaint that the notice posted for the Committee’s 
December 20, 2023, meeting was actually a notice for a meeting of the Everett Retirement 
Board, we decline to find a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  For local public bodies, notice 
shall be filed with the municipal clerk and posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public 
at all hours in or on the municipal building in which the clerk’s office is located.  G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(c).  A municipality may designate a website as an alternative notice posting location for all 
public bodies within the municipality.  940 CMR 29.03(2)(b).  The City of Everett has adopted 
its website, https://cityofeverett.com/, as the official method of posting notice.  Here, the 
Committee duly posted notice of the meeting to be held on December 20, 2023, to the City’s 
website, which is the official method of posting notice.  While we understand that the link to the 
notice directed individuals to a Retirement Board notice for a brief period of time, there is no 
evidence that that any member of the public was misled or confused by the meeting notice, or 
that the meeting was inaccessible to the public.  As such, we find that the Committee complied 
with the Open Meeting Law’s notice posting requirements.  See OML 2015-156.    
 
Attorney Fried’s complaint alleges that the notice for the meeting held on December 20, 
202
3, was insufficiently specific because it failed to include the names of the two finalists for the 
Superintendent position.  When a public body anticipates considering candidates or making 
appointments at a meeting, the meeting notice should include specific details about what 
appointments will be made and the names of anticipated appointees.  See OML 2019-128; OML 
2017-177; OML 2017-148; OML 2016-167.  The Committee explains that, at the time the 
original notice was posted on December 18, 2023, the Committee only knew that one finalist, 
Mr. Hart, had agreed to be interviewed.  Concerned that listing only one candidate on the notice 
would create the appearance that a single candidate would be interviewed during the December 
20, 2023, meeting, the Committee chose not to include the name of the one confirmed candidate 
on the notice.  See Commonwealth v. Board of Selectmen of the Town of Westborough, 2006 
WL 3292678 (Mass. Super. 2006); OML 2016-105; OML 2013-155 (Open Meeting Law 
requires a preliminary screening committee, such as a Superintendent Search Committee, that 
enters executive session under Purpose 8 to narrow a field to two or more candidates for 
consideration by the parent public body).  The Committee confirmed that the other finalist, Dr. 
Fricker, agreed to be interviewed after the close of business on December 18, 2023. 
 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: https://www.msss.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
On the morning of December 20, 2023, Attorney Galvin contacted our office seeking 
guidanc
e on whether the Committee could amend the notice to include the names of the two 
candidates the Committee intended to interview later that evening.  An Assistant Attorney 
General advised that the notice could be amended to include the names of the two finalists but 
recommended that the Committee postpone the meeting to another date, if possible, so that the 
topic with the names of the two candidates could be included in a meeting notice in the 
timeframe required by the Open Meeting Law.  We commend the Committee for seeking 
guidance from this office and for amending its notice promptly thereafter to include the names of 
the two candidates.  However, the notice should have included Mr. Hart’s name when the notice 
was originally posted on December 18, 2023, since that was the one confirmed candidate that the 
Committee knew at the time of posting.  Nonetheless, because the Committee made efforts to 
seek guidance and promptly amended the notice to include the names of both candidates after 
speaking with an Assistant Attorney General, we decline to find a violation of the Open Meeting 
Law in this case.  In the event of a similar situation, we reiterate that the Committee must include 
the names of any confirmed candidates and then include on the notice a short statement 
indicating that additional candidates will be interviewed during the meeting or something 
similar.  See OML 2020-45. 
 
Attorney Fried’s complaint also alleges that the executive session topic listed on the 
December 20, 2023, notice lacked sufficient specificity where it did not include the specific 
nonunion personnel with whom the Committee would be negotiating.  A public body may 
convene in executive session to “conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with 
nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with 
nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”).  When convening in executive 
session pursuant to Purpose 2, a public body must identify the nonunion personnel with whom it 
will be negotiating, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy.  See OML 
2020-67; OML 2015-63; OML 2013-97.   
 
While we commend the Committee for amending the notice and identifying the 
Super
intendent as the nonunion personnel with whom it would be negotiating, we conclude that 
the topic as listed on the original notice should have included the Superintendent as the 
Committee does not suggest that inclusion of such information would have compromised the 
purpose for the executive session.  See OML 2016-90; OML 2011-11.  In fact, the chair 
announced at the meeting that the Committee was convening in executive session to conduct 
strategy in preparation for contract negotiations with the Superintendent.  We, therefore, find that 
the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to identify on the December 20, 2023, 
meeting notice the nonunion personnel.   
 
 Finally, Attorney Fried’s complaint alleges that the December 20, 2023, meeting notice 
did not include the date and time that the notice was amended.  The Attorney General’s Open 
Meeting Law regulations require that the date and time that a meeting notice is posted be 
conspicuously recorded on or with the notice.  See 940 CMR 29.03(l)(d).  In addition, notices 
that are revised within the 48 hours before the meeting must conspicuously record both the date 
and time that the amended notice was posted and the date and time that the notice was originally 
posted.  See 940 CMR 29.03(l)(d); OML 2020-49; OML 2017-183; OML 2013-44.  Here, the 
Committee amended the notice twice on the day of the meeting.  While the municipal website 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
includes the date and time that the original notice was posted, the date and time that the notice 
was rev
ised was not recorded on the amended notices or the website.  See OML 2024-6; OML 
2019-102; OML 2018-53 (explaining that the date and time of posting may be listed either on the 
meeting notice itself or, when a meeting notice is posted to a website pursuant to 940 CMR 
29.03(2)(b), on the website next to the link to the meeting notice).  The Committee explains that 
the City Clerk notes the date and time of posting in a ledger book maintained solely by the Clerk, 
and that this practice complies with the Open Meeting Law’s requirement to record the date and 
time of posting “thereon or therewith.”  We disagree.  The Regulations specifically state that the 
date and time of posting must be conspicuously recorded on or with the notice.  See 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(d).  No word in a statute should be considered superfluous and whenever possible, each 
word in legislation is given meaning.  See International Org. of Masters, Mates & Pilots, Atl. & 
Gulf Maritime Region, AFL-CIO v. Woods Hole, Martha's Vineyard & Nantucket S.S. Authy., 
392 Mass. 811, 813 (1984).  Where the City of Everett has adopted its website as the official 
method of posting notice, all information required by law to be included in or on the notice must 
be posted on the municipal website.  Recording the date and time enables the public to observe 
that public bodies are complying with the Open Meeting Law’s notice requirements without 
requiring constant vigilance.  See OML 2013-44.  Additionally, it provides this office with 
evidence of compliance with the Open Meeting Law’s notice requirements.  See OML 2014-9.  
We find here that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to conspicuously 
record thereon or therewith the date and time that the revised notices were posted.  See, e.g., 
OML 2014-61 (finding public body in violation of Open Meeting Law where date and time that 
notice was posted was indecipherable). 
 
Although not raised in the complaints, we note our concern with the sufficiency of the 
minut
es of the December 20, 2023, meeting.  The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body 
“create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth 
the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each 
subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the 
actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  When 
reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial 
compliance with the accuracy requirement.  See OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64.  By substantial 
compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a 
member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear 
understanding of what occurred.  See OML 2024-127; OML 2012-106.  While minutes must 
include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes 
do not need to include every remark or opinion presented.  See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55.   
 
Here, the December 20, 2023, meeting lasted two and one-half hours, during which the 
Commit
tee interviewed two individuals for the position of Superintendent of Schools.  Each 
interview lasted approximately one hour, yet the minutes simply state that each candidate “gave 
introductory remarks about [their] background, education, and work experience” and that the 
Chair “gave every member of the School Committee a chance to ask questions.”  The minutes do 
not include a summary of the statements made by the candidates, a summary of the questions 
asked by the Committee members, or a summary of any answers that were provided.  The Open 
Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes summarize the discussions that were held.  See OML 
2019-167; OML 2018-8.  We encourage the Committee to revise the minutes of the meeting held 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
on December 20, 2023, so that members of the public reading the minutes can have a clear 
underst
anding of the discussions that occurred as to each candidate.  See, e.g., OML 2021-137 
(finding violation of Open Meeting Law where minutes summarized each question that members 
of the Board or the public asked during public hearings, but minutes did not include any 
summary of answers provided); OML 2016-105 (finding that original minutes lacked any 
description of questions asked by Committee members or answers given by applicants).   
   
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to identify on the December 20, 2023, meeting notice the nonunion personnel with 
whom it would be negotiating in executive session and by failing to include the date and time 
that the revised notices were posted.  We order immediate and future compliance with the law’s 
requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Paula Sterite – By email only:  
 Ivria Fried, Esq. – By email only: ifried@harringtonheep.com  
 Everett School Committee c/o Chair Jeanne Cristiano – By email only: 
jeanne.cristiano@ci.everett.ma.us 
Everett City Clerk – By email only: cityclerk@ci.everett.ma.us  
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
