===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 1, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 114 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Karin L. Brady 
Executive Assistant, Dighton Board of Selectmen/Town Administrator 
kbrady@dighton-ma.gov  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Brady: 
 
This office received two complaints from Patrick Higgins on October 30, 2024, alleging 
that the Dighton Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  Both complaints were originally filed with the Board on September 28, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated October 28.
1,2  The first complaint alleges that 
the Board failed to announce that the Board’s September 25 meeting was being recorded and 
failing to vote by roll call prior to entering executive session near the end of the meeting.3  The 
second complaint alleges that the notice of the Board’s September 16 meeting failed to list the 
candidate being considered for “appointment of the Town Administrator.” 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to vote by roll call prior to convening in executive session on September 28 and by failing to list 
on the notice of the Board’s September 16 meeting the candidate being considered for 
appointment as Town Administrator.  We find that the Board did not violate the Law in the other 
ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, 
unless an extension of time is granted, the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take 
remedial action, if appropriate; send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; 
and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.   G.L. 
c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
3 The first complaint also alleges that “it is presumed” that the Board likewise failed to vote by roll call prior to 
convening in executive session near the beginning of the meeting; however, the complainant was not present at the 
meeting and the publicly available meeting recording did not capture that portion of the meeting.  We decline to 
review this allegation as it is based on mere speculation and conjecture without factual support.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 
24(a); OML 2025-15; OML 2024-91. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
response to the complaints, the complainant’s request for further review of the complaints, the 
notice of the September 16 meeting, and a video recording of the September 15 meeting.  
 
The first complaint alleges that the Board’s chair failed to announce that the September 
25 meeting was being recorded.  The Open Meeting Law provides that, subject to certain 
reasonable requirements set out in the Law, any person may make a video or audio recording of 
an open session of a meeting of a public body, or may transmit the meeting through any medium.  
At the beginning of the meeting, the chair shall inform other attendees of any recordings.  See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f).  The requirement that the chair inform attendees of any recording includes 
any recording made by members of the public body itself, including those made for public 
broadcasting or administrative purposes, such as assisting in the drafting of meeting minutes.  
See OML 2023-154; OML 2020-159; OML 2013-136.
4   
 
The Board denies the allegation and asserts that the chair announced at the beginning of 
the meeting that the meeting was being recorded; the recording of the meeting that is available 
online did not begin until later in the meeting and therefore did not capture the announcement.   
The complainant, who was not present at the meeting, has provided no evidence to the contrary.  
Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s account of the facts.  See 
OML 2023-121; OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141.  Therefore, we find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the requirement to announce that the meeting was 
being recorded.  We remind the complainant, as we have in the past, that the Open Meeting Law 
does not require public bodies to record their meetings or to post recordings of their meetings 
online, nor does it require—if a meeting is recorded—that the recording capture the entirety of 
the meeting.  See, e.g., OML 2024-152; OML 2024-131; OML 2020-96.  We again discourage 
the filing of complaints based solely on an alleged omission from a meeting recording when the 
recording did not capture the pertinent section of the meeting. 
 
The first complaint also alleges that the Board failed to vote by roll call prior to 
convening in executive session near the end of its September 25 meeting.  The Open Meeting 
Law permits a public body to convene in executive session for certain prescribed purposes 
provided that it has first convened in open session, that a majority of the members of the body 
have voted to go into executive session, and that “the vote of each member is recorded by roll 
call and entered into the minutes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b); OML 2014-94.  The Board 
acknowledges, and we find, that it failed to conduct a roll call vote prior to convening in 
executive session on September 25, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  We remind the 
Board of its obligations. 
 
The second complaint alleges that the notice of the Board’s September 16 meeting was 
insufficient where it failed to list the candidate being considered for “appointment of the Town 
Administrator.”  The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting 
at least 48 hours prior to such meeting and that every notice include “the date, time and place of 
such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Public bodies are required to list topics on a notice with 
“sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(1)(b).  We have consistently explained that when a public body 
anticipates making appointments at a meeting, the meeting notice should include specific details 
about what appointments will be made and the names of anticipated appointees.  See OML 2023-
107; OML 2019-128; OML 2017-177; OML 2017-148; OML 2016-167.  The Board 
acknowledges that it failed to identify on the notice of the September 16 meeting the name of the 
candidate being considered for appointment as Town Administrator.  We find that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently specific notice for its September 16 
meeting.  We commend the Board for readily accepting responsibility for its failures as raised in 
the complaints and for committing to work to remain in compliance with the Open Meeting Law.   
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to vote by roll call prior to convening in executive session on September 28 and by failing 
to list on the notice of the Board’s September 16 meeting the candidate being considered for 
appointment as Town Administrator.  We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar 
violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.   
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
       Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  Patrick Higgins ( via email: ) 
Dighton Board of Selectmen (via email to Peter D. Caron, Chair:  
pcaron@dighton-ma.gov) 
Dighton Town Clerk (via email: scosta@dighton-ma.gov) 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
