===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 13, 2016 
OML 2016 - 125 
Kevin F. Bresnahan, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
300 Crown Colony Plaza, Suite 410 
Quincy, MA 02169 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Bresnahan: 
This office received a complaint from Brian Keaney, dated June 20, alleging that the 
Dedham School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on May 19, and the Committee 
responded by letter dated June 10. In his complaint, Mr. Keaney alleges that the Committee 
deliberated outside of a noticed meeting.2 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response, and 
the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the minutes of a 
Committee meeting held on April 6, and, we reviewed video recordings of town meetings held 
on May 2 and 16.3 Finally, we spoke with the Board's legal counsel by telephone on September 
8.4 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a seven-member public body, thus four 
members constitute a quorum. At issue is the budget for the Dedham School Department. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 While not raised in the complaint, we note that the Committee did not meet to review the complaint. Instead, the 
School Superintendent forwarded it directly to the Committee's legal counsel for a response. When an individual 
files an Open Meeting Law complaint with a public body, the chair "shall disseminate copies of the complaint to the 
members of the public body," and "the public body shall review the complaint's allegations." 940 CMR 29.05(3), 
(5). The chair is required to disseminate copies and the public body must meet to review the complaint and 
formulate a response, or must meet to delegate that authority. See OML 2012-90. We take this opportunity to 
remind the Committee of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
3 See https://vimeo.eom/l 65320588 and https://vimeo.eom/l 66961022. 
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
During an April 5 meeting of the Dedham Finance Committee, it was announced that 
approximately $100,000 would be cut from the recommended School Department budget. The 
Committee held a meeting the following day, April 6. During the April 6 meeting, Committee 
member Thomas Ryan stated that he was disappointed with the budget decision. Following this 
meeting, Mr. Ryan had several one-on-one meetings with the School Superintendent to discuss 
ways to avoid removing the funds from the recommended budget. 
On May 2, the Town of Dedham held a meeting known locally as a "Mini Town 
Meeting." In essence, this meeting is an opportunity for Town Meeting members and other 
officials within the town to discuss warrant articles and make needed changes in advance of 
Town Meeting. During this meeting, Mr. Ryan stated his intention to make a motion at Town 
Meeting to restore the $100,000 at issue to the recommended School Department budget. Mr. 
Ryan introduced himself as a Committee member and stated, "[W]e are only asking that the 
Town Manager's recommendation, or recommended amount, be reinstated[.]" 
Following the May 2 meeting, Mr. Ryan spoke with several people regarding the School 
Department budget, including the Town Administrator, the Town Meeting Moderator, Board of 
Selectmen members, and the School Superintendent. Mr. Ryan engaged in these discussions 
alone and did not include other Committee members. Following these discussions, Mr. Ryan 
changed his opinion regarding the budget issue. During Town Meeting on May 16, Mr. Ryan 
again addressed the town, stating. "The School Committee has decided that we will address this 
matter at the Town Meeting in the Fall." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law is designed to eliminate "much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghighlione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A 
"deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority 
of the member of the public body. LI 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Committee deliberated outside of a noticed meeting 
based on Mr. Ryan's statements during the May 2 "Mini Town Meeting" as well as during Town 
Meeting on May 16. In past determination letters, we have stated that a speaker's the use of the 
plural, standing alone, is insufficient to demonstrate that deliberation occurred outside of a 
meeting. See OML 2016-27; OML 2016-15. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, we 
credit the Committee's statement that Mr. Ryan's statements did not reflect any discussion 
between or among a quorum of the Committee members, and we find that the Committee did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside a noticed meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; 
OML 2013-133; OML 2011-40; OML 2011-52. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Brian Keaney 
Dedham School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 