===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
March 13, 2020 
OML 2020-38
Katherine Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Feodoroff:
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan on November 12, 2019, alleging 
that the Ashland Development Liaison Group (the “Group”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Group on October 1 and you 
responded on behalf of the Group by letter dated October 25.1 In his complaint, Mr. Morgan 
alleges that the members of the Group did not submit their Open Meeting Law certifications and 
that the Group failed to meet in a timely manner to review two previous Open Meeting Law 
complaints.2
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
and find that the Group members failed to submit their Open Meeting Law certifications in a 
timely manner. However, we find that the Group did not violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
other way alleged.
According to the Attorney General’s Regulations, within two weeks after receipt of the 
Open Meeting Law materials, which include the Open Meeting Law, the Attorney General’s 
regulations and the Attorney General’s Guide to the Open Meeting Law, local public body 
members shall certify, on the form prescribed by the Attorney General, receipt of such materials. 
940 CMR 29.04(1). An individual serving on multiple public bodies must sign a certification for 
each public body on which he or she serves. However, a public body member does not need to
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2019.
2 The complaint also alleges that the Select Board only officially appointed 2 members of the Group and that the 
Board’s motion creating the Group was lacking necessary details. We note that, even if true, these allegations would 
not constitute a violation of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Accordingly, we decline to review them. See OML Declination 
1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners).

===PAGE 2===
sign a separate certification when joining a subcommittee of the public body. See 940 CMR 
29.04(4). The municipal clerk shall maintain the signed certification for each such person, 
indicating the date the person received the materials. Id; see also OML 2019-28.3
Here, the Group admits that it met on both April 10 and May 14, but was unaware that it 
was a public body subject to the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. After being “re­
created” by the Select Board on August 7, the Group met for a third time on August 28.
However, three members of the Group did not submit their signed certifications until September 
24 and 25. The Group argues that it is a subcommittee of the Select Board and that subcommittee 
members are not required to file separate certifications. It is true that members of a public body 
who have already signed certifications need not re-certify when appointed to a subcommittee.
See 940 CMR 29.04 (4); OML 2019-79. However, when requested, the Group did not produce 
certifications for the two Group members in their roles as members of the Select Board, either. 
Furthermore, a third Group member who is not a member of the Select Board, did not file his 
certification until September 25. Finally, we find that a fourth group member failed to sign a 
separate certification for the Group, though he had signed a certification as part of his 
participation in another town committee. We therefore find that the Group violated the Open 
Meeting Law. We order all members who have not completed a certification for the Group or the 
Select Board to do so within 30 days of receipt of this letter.
The complaint also alleges that the Group failed to meet in a timely manner to review two 
previous Open Meeting Law complaints.4 The Open Meeting Law requires that, within 14 
business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, a public body must review the 
complaints to ascertain the time, date, place, and circumstances that constitute the alleged 
violation. 940 CMR 29.05(4). Unless an extension has been granted by the Attorney General, the 
public body must review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and 
send the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action 
taken. Id. If a public body wishes to delegate the responsibility for responding to an Open 
Meeting Law complaint to its legal counsel, it may do so, however the body must still meet to 
consider and refer all complaints. See OML 2017-197.
Here, the Group requested and was granted an extension by the Attorney General until 
October 25 to respond to the two previous Open Meeting Law complaints. The Group met on 
October 23 to review the two complaints and the responses prepared by Town Counsel. The 
Open Meeting Law does not require the Board to discuss the merit of each complaint in detail. 
Rather, the law permits a body to vote to approve a response prepared by legal counsel. See 
OML 2018-134. Since the Group met within the extended time allowed by the Attorney General 
and authorized Counsel’s response to the complaints, we find no violation.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Group. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions.
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law.
4 The two complaints were filed with the Group on September 30 and October 4.
2

===PAGE 3===
Sarah Chase
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Stephen Morgan
Ashland Development Liaison Group
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3
