===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
November 16, 2018 
OML 2018-146
Carolyn A. Weisman 
Assistant Corporation Counsel 
Boston Public Schools 
Office of Legal Advisor 
2300 Washington Street 
Boston, MA 02119
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Weisman:
This office received a complaint from Colman Herman on September 25 alleging that the 
Boston School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on July 19, and you responded, 
on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated September 18, following an extension of time 
granted by our office. The complaint alleges that the Committee improperly met in executive 
session to approve the settlement agreement made with former Superintendent Tommy Chang.
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
by entering executive session for what was a proper statutory purpose. However, we find that 
the Committee’s omission of certain required information from its June 27 and July 2 meeting 
notices does constitute a violation. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review. We also reviewed the notice of, and executive session minutes from, 
the Committee’s June 27 meeting; the notice of, and open and executive session minutes from, 
the Committee’s July 2 meeting, as well as a video recording of that meeting; the notice of, and 
open session minutes from, the Committee’s July 16 meeting, as well as a video recording of that 
meeting;1 2 and the notice of, and open session minutes from, the Committee’s September 12 
meeting. Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on October 3 and October 5.3
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 The video recording of the July 2 meeting is available at https://www. youtube, com/watch? v=unudV3 IgobY; and 
the video recording of the July 16 meeting is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9JpI4BOvdqc.
3 For purposes of Clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter.

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a seven-member public body; the 
members are appointed by the Mayor of Boston. See Chapter 108 of the Acts of 1951. The 
Committee Bylaws state that the Committee is responsible for the oversight of the superintendent 
and is exclusively responsible for establishing the superintendent’s compensation, benefits, and 
other terms of employment. In the event the superintendent resigns, the Committee will name an 
acting superintendent until such time as it appoints a new superintendent. (Bylaws Article VI, 
Section 1).
On or about June 22, Boston Mayor Marty Walsh and Boston Public Schools 
Superintendent Tommy Chang publicly announced that Dr. Chang would be resigning from his 
position. On June 25 at 2:33 P.M., the Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on June 
27 at 5:30 P.M. The notice included Call to Order, Pledge of Allegiance, and Executive Session. 
Specifically, the notice stated that the Committee “will adjourn immediately to Executive 
Session to conduct a strategy session in preparation for negotiations with non-union personnel.”
During the June 27 meeting, the Committee unanimously voted by roll call to enter into 
executive session to conduct a strategy session in preparation for negotiations with non-union 
personnel. The Committee met for approximately two hours and thirty minutes and has publicly 
released the minutes of this executive session. The Committee discussed Dr. Chang’s decision to 
resign as Superintendent. Chair Michael Loconto asked the Committee to authorize him to reach 
a separation agreement with Dr. Chang and the Committee agreed, suggesting that the separation 
terms for Dr. Chang be consistent with those in his employment agreement. The Committee then 
discussed the Interim Superintendent position and the three major priorities a candidate would be 
expected to fulfill. While the Committee agreed that there was no clear internal candidate for the 
position, Chair Loconto recommended offering the position to Laura Perille. Although not 
reflected in the minutes, Attorney Weisman stated that the Committee discussed potential 
contract terms that it would offer to Ms. Perille if she were chosen as the Interim Superintendent. 
Finally, the Committee discussed the search process for a permanent Superintendent.
On June 28 at 3:39 P.M., the Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on July 2 
at 5:00 P.M. The notice included seven topics, including an Executive Session, “Discussion of 
offer of employment to Laura Perille to serve as Interim Superintendent,” and Action Item. 
Specifically, the notice stated that the Committee “will adjourn immediately to Executive 
Session to conduct a strategy session in preparation for negotiations with non-union personnel.” 
In addition, the “Action Item” indicated that there would be an “offer of employment to Laura 
Perille to serve as Interim Superintendent.”
During the July 2 meeting, the Committee unanimously voted by roll call to enter into 
executive session to conduct a strategy session in preparation for negotiations with non-union 
personnel. The Committee announced that it would reconvene in open session following the 
executive session. The Committee met for approximately forty-five minutes and has publicly 
released the minutes of this executive session. Chair Loconto announced that a separation 
agreement had been reached with Dr. Chang. The Committee then discussed the terms and 
salary it would offer Ms. Perille as Interim Superintendent.
2

===PAGE 3===
The Committee then reconvened in open session and discussed the search process for a 
permanent Superintendent. Each member thanked Dr. Chang for his service and Chair Loconto 
announced that Dr. Chang’s last day of employment would be July 13 and that his separation 
would be governed by the terms of his employment contract. The Committee then heard from 
approximately 20 members of the public. Finally, the Committee unanimously approved an 
offer of employment to Ms. Perille as Interim Superintendent and the offer letter was read into 
the record.
Dr. Chang signed a separation agreement on July 6, and Chair Loconto signed it, on 
behalf of the Committee, on July 9. The Committee has publicly released the separation 
agreement.
DISCUSSION
The complaint challenges the propriety of the Committee’s June 27 and July 2 executive 
session discussions. The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies 
may enter a closed, executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes, provided that the chair 
of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for the executive session, “stating 
all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive 
session was called.” G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. 
Sch. Comm, of Wayland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for 
convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only notification given the 
public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would 
know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”). Public bodies must identify in the 
notice for a meeting the specific executive session purpose they intend to invoke to justify an 
executive session and must provide as much detail as possible to inform the public of the nature 
of the executive session discussion without compromising the confidentiality of the executive 
session. See OML 2015-63; OML 2011-9.4
A public body may enter executive session “[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation 
for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract 
negotiations with nonunion personnel.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”). When convening 
in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2, a public body must identify the nonunion personnel 
with whom it will be negotiating, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy. 
See OML 2017-53; OML 2016-43; OML 2013-151. Here, both the June 27 and July 2 notices 
failed to identify the non-union personnel with whom the Committee would be negotiating. The 
executive session topics as listed on both the June 27 and July 2 notices should have identified 
Dr. Chang because inclusion of such information would not have compromised the purpose for 
the executive sessions where Dr. Chang’s resignation had been publicly announced on June 22, 
five days before the first executive session.5 See OML 2016-90; OML 2011-11.
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
5 Although not raised in the complaint, we note that the executive session topic on the July 2 notice also should have 
contained Ms. Perille’s name, as that would not have compromised the Committee’s negotiating position where two
3

===PAGE 4===
As to the propriety of the executive sessions themselves, the Committee’s discussion of 
Dr. Chang’s separation agreement fit within the parameters of executive session Purpose 2, as 
the discussions related to strategy in preparation for contract negotiations. See OML 2017-69 
(finding that public body did not violate Open Meeting Law by discussing in executive session 
strategy with respect to negotiating a separation agreement with Superintendent); OML 2013- 
184 (finding that public body did not violate Open Meeting Law by discussing in executive 
session strategy in preparation for renegotiating contract with Superintendent). During the June 
27 executive session, the Committee discussed the potential terms to be included in a separation 
agreement with Dr. Chang. The Committee then appointed Chair Loconto to reach an agreement 
with Dr. Chang, which was subsequently finalized. Although the Open Meeting Law does not 
permit a public body to approve a contract in executive session, see OML 2011-28, the 
Committee did not do so here. Rather, Chair Loconto simply informed the Committee during the 
July 2 executive session that a separation agreement had been reached in accordance with the 
authority the Committee had previously granted him, and then briefly discussed the terms of that 
agreement. After reconvening in open session, the Committee announced Dr. Chang’s last day 
as Superintendent and explained that his separation would be governed by the terms of his 
employment contract. The agreement was finalized on July 9. We conclude that the Committee 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law by convening in executive session to discuss strategy with 
respect to Dr. Chang’s severance agreement during both the June 27 and July 2 meetings.
CONCLUSION
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by posting insufficiently 
detailed notices for its June 27 and July 2 meetings. We order the Committee’s immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations may 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Colman Herman
Boston School Committee
additional topics listed on that notice specifically identified Ms. Perille. We remind the Committee of its obligations 
under the law to post sufficiently detailed meeting notices. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 
2013-151.
4

===PAGE 5===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
5
