===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
September 4, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 108 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Janelle Austin, Esq. 
101 Arch Street  
Boston, MA 02110  
jaustin@k-plaw.com   
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Austin: 
This Office received a complaint from Ralph Martin, Vice President and General Counsel 
of Northeastern University (“Northeastern”), on March 26, 2020, alleging that the Nahant Board 
of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 19, and your office responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated March 26.1 In his complaint, Mr. Martin alleges the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by 1) improperly citing Purpose 3 to enter executive session and 
discuss litigation to which the Board was not a party; 2) improperly allowing members of the 
public to attend an executive session; and 3) failing to disclose sufficient detail about the 
litigation to be discussed in executive session. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response 
to the complaint, the complainant’s request for further review and the Board’s supplemental 
response, dated July 8. We reviewed the Board’s February 6, 2020 meeting notice and a video of 
the meeting. We also exchanged emails with you on June 26, and July 1 and 2, and with Mr. 
Martin on July 31, and August 4 and 5.   
FACTS 
 We find the facts as follows. In 2019, the Town of Nahant (“the Town”), the Nahant 
Preservation Trust (the “Trust”), and Northeastern were negotiating regarding the proposed 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
development of property that Northeastern owns in Nahant. Northeastern maintains a Marine 
Science Center on its property, and wished to expand the Center. On August 20, 2019, the Trust 
filed suit against Northeastern in Superior Court. See Nahant Preservation Trust, Inc., et al v. 
Northeastern University, Essex Superior Court, C.A. No. 1977CV01211 (the “Trust Action”). The 
Trust and several individual plaintiffs sought permanent injunctive relief and a declaratory 
judgment to prevent alleged irreparable, imminent harm to the environment arising from 
Northeastern’s planned expansion project. Northeastern then filed a related suit against the Trust 
in Land Court on August 9, 2019, which was then transferred to Essex Superior Court on 
October 24, 2019. See Northeastern University v. Nahant Preservation Trust, Inc., et al, Essex 
Superior Court, C.A. No. 1977CV01503 (the “Northeastern Action”) (collectively, the “Trust-
Northeastern Litigation”). Northeastern sought a declaration that the property had not been 
dedicated or restricted in such a way so as to preclude the university’s development plans. By 
order dated November 19, 2019, the two suits in the Trust-Northeastern Litigation were 
consolidated for hearing purposes only, with the Northeastern Action scheduled for trial on 
February 23, 2021, and the trial for the Trust Action to follow.  
 
As of February 6, the Town was not a party to the Trust-Northeastern Litigation. On 
February 6, the Board met in open session for approximately one hour and twenty minutes. At 
the end of the meeting, the Chair stated that the Board would enter executive session, which was 
“necessary to protect the Board’s litigation position.” A Selectman made a motion, quoting the 
language of the Board’s meeting notice, that the Board enter executive session “Pursuant to 
M.G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(3) to discuss strategy with respect to litigation.” After the Board voted 
unanimously to enter executive session, the Chair adjourned the open session portion of the 
meeting and most members of the public left the meeting room. However, at the end of the 
meeting two non-Board members remained in the room to join the executive session: Attorney 
David Lurie, counsel for the Trust in the Trust-Northeastern Litigation, and Attorney Jeffrey 
Musman, an individual plaintiff in the Trust Action and individual defendant in the Northeastern 
Action. During the executive session, the Board discussed the ongoing Trust-Northeastern 
Litigation and whether to intervene on the side of the Trust in the two actions.  
On February 14, Mr. Martin submitted this Open Meeting Law complaint on behalf of 
Northeastern University. On March 30, the Town moved to intervene in the Trust-Northeastern 
Litigation.  
DISCUSSION  
I. The Board properly met in executive session under Purpose 3 on February 6.  
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). One permissible reason to 
convene in executive session is “to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or 
litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating 
position of the public body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”). 
Purpose 3 offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with respect to litigation that is 
pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely; the mere 
possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3. See Doherty v. School Committee 
of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Ferryman v. School Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-05.2 The public body invoking Purpose 3 must have a 
bargaining or litigating position to protect, and must declare in open session that having the 
discussion in open session may have a detrimental effect on that position. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3); OML 2011-47. Under Purpose 3, a public body has a litigating position to protect if 
there is pending litigation in which the public body has a litigating position, or if litigation is 
clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. See OML 2020-53. 
 Here, the Trust-Northeastern Litigation was already underway. Unknown to the general 
public at the time, the Board was considering intervening in the action to protect the Town’s 
interests, because the possible development by Northeastern of the property in question would 
have a significant impact on the Town.3 A Board of Selectmen may properly discuss the strategic 
decision of whether or not to intervene in ongoing litigation in a Purpose 3 executive session. 
See OML 2019-164. Therefore, we find that the Board’s use of Purpose 3 to discuss intervening 
in the ongoing litigation between the Trust and Northeastern University was a proper under 
Purpose 3 and we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law.  
II. The Board permissibly invited an attorney for the Trust and one of the individual 
plaintiffs in the Trust Action to participate in the executive session on February 6.  
 
The complaint also alleges that two members of the public – the attorney for the Trust 
and one of the individual plaintiffs in the Trust Action – should not have been allowed to attend 
the executive session. Although there is no express prohibition in the Open Meeting Law on 
allowing members of the public to attend an executive session, the presence of individuals other 
than members of the public body and its staff may call into question the need for secrecy. 
Therefore, we must now determine whether the presence of these two individuals defeated the 
purpose for the executive session. We have long held that a public body may consult with its 
counsel during executive session, as long as those discussions fit within one of the ten 
enumerated executive session purposes. See OML 2020-53; OML 2015-14; OML 2012-55. The 
question here is whether the presence in the executive session of an individual plaintiff and the 
attorney for the plaintiffs in the Trust Action defeated the lawful purpose for the executive 
session, given that the Board was not yet a party to the litigation.  
We have previously found that a Board of Selectmen may properly meet with a litigation 
co-party during an executive session under Purpose 3. See OML 2016-72. Here, although the 
Board was not a party to the litigation at the time of the executive session, it was anticipated that 
if the Board entered the litigation it would do so on the side of the Trust. Therefore, the 
underlying rationale for allowing co-parties to meet jointly in executive session under Purpose 3 
also applies to prospective co-parties that have a demonstrable litigation interest, as in this case. 
Therefore, we find that the presence of these two individuals did not defeat the lawful purpose 
for the executive session and we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
3 A Board of Selectmen has a litigating position to protect in litigation to which either the Board itself or the Town is 
a party. Collins v. Wayland Bd. of Selectmen, 31 Mass.L.Rptr. 189 (Mass. Super. June 3, 2013).   
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
III. The Board was not required to identify the litigation matter that would be discussed 
during the February 6 executive session on its meeting notice or during the Chair’s 
announcement prior to entering executive session.  
 
A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the 
Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Executive session topics must be described, both 
in the meeting notice and in an announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(b)(3): see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 
567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary 
... because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct 
business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was 
proper or improper”).  
When convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body should 
identify the litigation matter to be discussed, so long as doing so would not compromise the 
public body’s litigating position. See OML 2016-12. However, a public body need not identify 
the litigation matter if publicly disclosing it would compromise the purpose for the executive 
session, such as when the body is considering initiating litigation against another party. See G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(3), 21(b)(3); OML 2017-176; OML 2017-87. Although we generally defer to a 
public body’s assessment of whether the inclusion of such information would compromise the 
purpose for the executive session, a public body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis 
for such a claim if challenged. See OML 2012-76.  
Here, the Town was not generally known to be considering intervening in the ongoing 
Trust-Northeastern Litigation. At the time, the Board was involved in discussions with 
Northeastern and did not want to disrupt those discussions by signaling that the Board was 
considering intervening in the Trust-Northeastern Litigation. The Board asserts that identifying 
the litigation matter to be discussed would undermine the Board’s litigating position. We are 
satisfied with the Board’s explanation that revealing such information would defeat the purpose 
for the executive session; therefore, the meeting notice was not required to identify the specific 
ligation matter to be discussed. See OML 2015-121. Accordingly, the Board did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law by omitting the name of the litigation matter from its meeting notice. 
We also find that the Chair’s announcement prior to entering executive session complied 
with the Open Meeting Law. At the end of the meeting, the Chair stated that the Board would 
enter executive session, which was “necessary to protect the Board’s litigation position.” The 
Chair then moved, quoting the language of the Board’s meeting notice, to enter executive 
session, “[p]ursuant to M.G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(3) to discuss strategy with respect to litigation.” 
The Open Meeting Law requires that when meeting in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, 
the Chair must declare that holding the discussion in “an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(3). 
However, the Law does not mandate that the Chair recite the exact language from the statute. We 
find that the Chair’s statement that the executive session was “necessary to protect the Board’s 
litigating position” satisfied the requirement that the Chair declare that an open meeting may 
have a detrimental effect on the body’s litigating position.  
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our Office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Chase 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Ralph Martin, Esq. (via e-mail: r.martin@northeasern.edu ) 
 Kevin O’Flaherty, Esq. (via e-mail: koflaherty@goulstonstorrs.com ) 
 Nahant Board of Selectmen, c/o Jeffrey T. Blake, Esq. (via e-mail: JBlake@k-plaw.com ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
