===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACI -RJSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
An'ORNEY GENERAL 
June 5, 2012 
OML 2012 - 44 
John Davis, Esq. 
Pierce, Davis & Perritano, LLP 
90 Canal Street 
Boston, MA 02114 
Dear Attorney Davis: 
This office received two identical Open Meeting Law complaints from Mr. John Julius 
and Mr. Gary Lopez, dated September 10, 2011, alleging that the Barnstable Town Council (the 
"Council") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints specifically 
allege that the Council improperly refused to release the minutes of a June 15, 2011 executive 
session meeting of the Council's Contract Negotiating Subcommittee (the "Subcommittee"). 
The complaints additionally allege that "councilors were solicited to serve on the subcommittee 
as a preemptive strike against a tie vote," possibly indicating a deliberation outside of a posted 
meeting.' The complaints were initially filed with the Council on August 1, 2011. The Council 
responded on August 15, 2011. 
As an initial matter, we find that the allegation that the Council may have deliberated 
outside of a posted meeting is untimely, and therefore decline to review it. The Open Meeting 
Law states that complaints alleging violations of the law must be filed with the chair of the 
public body within 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). The Attorney 
General's Open Meeting Law regulations state that "if the alleged violation of [the Open 
Meeting Law] could not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then [the complaint 
must be filed] within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered." 940 CMR 
29.05(3). The complainants allege that the Council discussed the composition of the 
Subcommittee, possibly outside of a regular meeting, to ensure a specific outcome before the 
Subcommittee ever met. The complainants have provided no evidence of a specific violation on 
a specific date, however we note that the Subcommittee met on June 15, 2011, therefore any 
alleged deliberation of this nature would have occurred prior to that date. The complainants 
claim they became aware of the violations during the Council's July 14, 2011 meeting, but have 
Additional allegations raised in the complaints are not covered by the Open Meeting Law, therefore we decline to 
investigate them. 
1 
===PAGE 2===
offered no specific evidence to support this claim. The Subcommittee meeting was publicly 
posted, and the full Council finalized the underlying contract issue at an open session meeting on 
June 23, 2011. We therefore find that, in order to be timely filed, the complaints should have 
been filed with the Council before July 23, 2011. The complaints were initially filed with the 
Council on July 25, 2011, only to be withdrawn and resubmitted on August 1, 2011. Because the 
complaints were filed more than 30 days after the Council's open session meeting, and the 
complainants have provided no evidence that the alleged violation could not reasonably have 
been discovered at that time, we decline to review this allegation. 
We did review the allegation that the Subcommittee improperly failed to release the 
minutes from its June 15, 2011 executive session meeting and, following our review, we find that 
the purpose for this executive session has expired and order the Council to review and publicly 
release those minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the executive session, unless the 
attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records law applies. Although not raised 
in the complaints, upon reviewing the Subcommittee's June 15, 2011 executive session minutes, 
we found that the Subcommittee ceased taking minutes during caucus sessions, in violation of 
the Open Meeting Law. We therefore order the Council to reconstruct the missing portions of 
the minutes, to the best of its ability, and release them as part of the full minutes of the 
subcommittee's June 15, 2011 executive session. In reaching this determination, we reviewed 
the complaints filed on August 1, 2011; the Council's August 15, 2011 response; and the 
complaints filed with our office on September 10, 2011. We also reviewed the executive session 
minutes of the Subcommittee's June 15, 2011 meeting, and the open session minutes of the 
Council's June 23, 2011 meeting. Finally, we reviewed a statement submitted by Mr. Lopez, 
dated September 30, 2011. 
FACTS 
Following a series of contentious meetings, the thirteen-member Barnstable Town 
Council appointed a subcommittee to negotiate an amendment to Town Manager John Klimm's 
employment contract that would allow him to end his employment with the Town. The four-
person Subcommittee consisted of two members who supported amending the Town Manager's 
contract, and two who did not. The Subcommittee posted notice on Monday, June 13, 2011 for 
its June 15, 2011 meeting. After convening the meeting, the Subcommittee voted to enter 
executive session "for the purpose of discussing Town Manager, John Klimm's employment 
contract with the Town." Because the minutes of the executive session have not yet been 
released, we do not recount their content here. However, the minutes reflect negotiation with 
Mr. Klimm regarding an amendment to his employment contract, as well as two caucuses during 
which the Subcommittee met without Mr Klimm present in order to discuss his proposed terms. 
The draft minutes of the June 15, 2011 meeting show that the Subcommittee ceased 
taking minutes when the subcommittee met to have discussions without Mr. Klimm present. The 
final version of the minutes, approved on June 23, 2011, includes an amendment offering one 
sentence summaries of what occurred during the two caucus sessions. However, the short 
summaries provide no detail of what occurred. 
The Subcommittee reported its progress to the full Council on June 23, 2011. The 
contract amendment was discussed first in executive session, and then voted upon in open 
2 
===PAGE 3===
session. According to the complainants, it was at a July 14, 2011 Council meeting that the public 
was first made aware of the conduct that the complainants allege violated the Open Meeting law. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge,  376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body may enter executive, or closed, session for 
any of ten enumerated purposes, provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a 
majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, and that the vote of 
each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)—(b). 
Among the ten enumerated purposes for executive session is Purpose 2, "No conduct strategy 
sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(2). 
Public bodies must also "create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the 
public "as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no 
longer." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, 
however, the minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless 
the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the public records law applies to withhold them, 
in whole or in part, from disclosure. See  id. Public bodies have an obligation to review the 
minutes of executive sessions at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of 
minutes is warranted, and to announce that determination at the next meeting following its 
review. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). The burden of justifying continued nondisclosure of executive 
session minutes lies with the public body. Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham Regional School  
Committee,  402 Mass. 179, 184 (1988). 
The Subcommittee was appointed to negotiate contract terms with Town Manager John 
Klimm, and to present those terms to the full Council for consideration. The Subcommittee 
completed its task when it presented the terms to the Council on June 23, 2011 and the terms 
were accepted. As noted above, a public body must release executive session minutes "[w]hen 
the purpose for which a valid executive session was held has been served." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
Because the contract negotiation concluded when the full Council voted to accept the terms 
negotiated by the Subcommittee, the purpose for keeping the Subcommittee's minutes 
confidential has expired. The Committee should now review and publicly release those minutes 
and any documents or exhibits used at the executive session, unless the attorney-client privilege 
or an exemption to the Public Records law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, from 
disclosure. 
Furthermore, we note that the June 15, 2011 minutes approved by the Council do not 
include the level of detail about the discussion that occurred that is required by the Open Meeting 
law. The minutes include only one sentence summaries of what occurred during two caucus 
sessions. The minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each subject, including 
3 
===PAGE 4===
those portions of the negotiation session where the Subcommittee may have met without the 
Town Manager present. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Because this did not occur, the minutes are 
insufficient. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the purpose for Subcommittee's June 15, 2011 executive session meeting 
has expired. Additionally, we find that the Subcommittee's June 15, 2011 executive session 
minutes are incomplete because the Subcommittee failed to provide a sufficiently detailed 
summary of the discussions that occurred during the Subcommittee's caucus sessions. We order 
the Council to review and release the Subcommittee's June 15, 2011 executive session meeting 
minutes, if it has not done so already, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the 
Public Records law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, from disclosure. We 
additionally order the Council or its Subcommittee to reconstruct the incomplete portions of the 
minutes, to the best of their ability, and release them as part of the full executive session minutes 
of the June 15, 2011 meeting. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during this investigation, and 
now consider this matter closed. This determination does not resolve any other complaints 
against public bodies in Barnstable that may be pending with our office. Please contact me if 
you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: John Julius 
Gary Lopez 
4 