===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 20, 2013 
OML 2013- 190 
Gregg Corbo, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received a complaint from Robert Belbin, dated July 24, 2013, alleging that 
the Carver Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about July 1, 2013, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, to the original complaint by letter dated July 22, 2013. In his 
complaint, Mr. Belbin alleges that during its June 25, 2013 meeting, the Board entered into 
executive session, although the topic was not listed on the meeting notice. 
We reviewed the July 1, 2013 complaint filed with the Board; your July 22, 2013 
response, on behalf of the Board, and the July 24, 2013 complaint filed with our office, 
requesting further review. We also reviewed the notice and minutes from the Board's June 25, 
2013 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing a topic in executive session that was not included in the meeting notice because the 
chair did not reasonably anticipate that discussion on this topic would occur. 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Board convened a meeting in open session on 
June 25, 2013, in part, to conduct interviews for the position of Interim Town Administrator. 
The meeting notice, posted on June 21, 2013, listed among the items for discussion the following 
topics: "7:00 Interviews for Interim Town Administrator: Peter Hechenbleikner, David Madden, 
Scott McCaig, and James Purcell" and "Discussion and possible vote re: hiring an Interim Town 
Administrator." The notice did not include any mention of a possible executive session. 
At the time the notice was posted, it was unclear which Board members would participate 
in the hiring process because there was uncertainty about whether any members would recuse 
themselves due to a conflict of interest. On the day of the meeting, two Board members. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
including Chair Michael O'Donnell (who prepared the meeting notice), received information that 
caused them both to recuse themselves from the interview and selection process for the Interim 
Town Administrator. 
During the meeting, the three remaining members of the Board conducted interviews 
with each of the candidates and then discussed the merits of each candidate before voting to 
appoint James Purcell to the position "subject to a successful contract negotiation and to direct 
Town Counsel to negotiate a contract and report back to the Board at its next meeting." Then the 
Board convened in executive session to discuss the terms of the contract, following a vote to 
enter executive session "for purposes of discussion of contract negotiations of non-union 
personnel in reference to the Interim Town Administrator because discussing the matters in open 
session will have a detrimental effect on the Town's negotiating position and not to return to 
open session." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meeting notices "shall be printed in a legible, 
easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time, and place of such meeting and a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 
3 OA, § 20(b). The Open Meeting Law does not require that the chair of a public body guess 
what will occur during a meeting, but the chair does need to list those topics that he or she 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed. See OML 2011-36; OML 2011-23; OML 2011-13.' 
The Board contends that the meeting notice was sufficiently specific because discussion 
of contract terms in executive session was an extension of its discussion of the Interim Town 
Administrator hiring process. Additionally, the Board contends that Chair O'Donnell did not 
anticipate convening an executive session because it was unclear whether a hiring decision 
would even be made, due to the uncertainty surrounding potential recusals. We disagree with the 
Board's argument that the executive session fell within the parameters of the topics listed on the 
notice. However, because it was unclear which Board members, if any, had a conflict of interest 
at the time the meeting notice was posted; it was unclear whether a decision regarding the 
position of Interim Town Administrator would be made at that meeting. Accordingly, the Board 
and Chair O'Donnell did not anticipate at least 48 hours before the meeting that there would be a 
need for the executive session discussion to occur. A public body may consider a topic at a 
meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice if it is a topic that the chair did not reasonably 
anticipate at least 48 hours before the meeting.2 See OML 2013-118; OML 2013-111. We 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www. mass. go v/ago/openmeeting. 
2 See also OML FAQ: Meeting Notices, available at the Attorney General's website: 
Q: May a public body consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice? 
A: Yes, if it is a topic that the chair did not reasonably anticipate 48 hours before the meeting. If a meeting topic is 
proposed after the meeting notice is posted, the public body is encouraged to update its posting to provide the public 
with as much notice as possible of what subjects will be discussed during a meeting. Although a public body may 
consider a topic that was not listed in the meeting notice if unanticipated, the Attorney General strongly encourages 
public bodies to postpone discussion and action on topics that are controversial or may be of particular interest to the 
public if those topics were not listed in the meeting notice. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
therefore find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by convening in executive 
session during its June 25, 2013 meeting. However, we remind the Board that the Attorney 
General strongly encourages public bodies to postpone discussion and action on topics that may 
be of particular interest to the public if those topics were not listed in the meeting notice. See 
OML 2013-61. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by discussing a topic during its meeting that was not included in the meeting notice because 
the chair did not reasonably anticipate that discussion on this topic would occur. We now 
consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does 
not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel 
free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Robert Belbin 
Carver Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. BOA, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3 