===PAGE 1===
   
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
August 20, 2012 
OML 2012 — 79 
Richard G. Barry 
Prudential Committee 
Cotuit Fire District 
P.O. Box 1475 
Cotuit, MA 02635 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Barry: 
This office received a complaint from Alison Lowe (the "complainant"), dated August 8, 
2010, alleging that the Clerk of Cotuit Fire District (the "District Clerk") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Fire District 
Prudential Committee (the "Committee") on or about July 15, 2010. The Committee did not 
respond to the complaint. Although the complaint was filed with the Committee, the complaint 
alleges that the District Clerk, who is not a member of the Committee, failed to distribute the text 
of the Open Meeting Law to District elected officials, and that she did not collect a form from 
each Committee member certifying that they had received and read the law, pursuant to G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(g). We appreciate the patience of the parties as we considered this matter. Following 
our review, we find that the District Clerk did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
The Open Meeting Law states that "[within] 2 weeks of qualification for the office, all 
persons serving on a public body shall certify. . . the receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, 
regulations promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a copy of the educational material prepared 
by the attorney general explaining the open meeting law and its application pursuant to section 
19." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g). The law further states that "the appointing authority, city or town 
clerk or the executive director or other appropriate administrator of a state or regional body, or 
their designees, shall obtain such certification from each person upon entering service and shall 
retain it subject to the applicable records retention schedule where the body maintains its official 
records. The certification shall be evidence that the member of a public body has read and 
understands the requirements of the open meeting law and the consequences of violating it." Id. 
1 
0 
===PAGE 2===
While the certification forms must be submitted to and retained by the clerk, the 
requirement of compliance with the Open Meeting Law's certification provisions remains with 
public bodies and public body members. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g). Individuals who are not 
members of public bodies are not subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2012-32. 1  
Here, the complaint alleges that the District Clerk violated the law by failing to distribute 
and collect the certification forms from members of the Committee. Because the District Clerk 
is an individual who is not a member of a public body, and the obligation to complete the 
certification form and forward it to the clerk for retention lies with the public body and its 
members, we find that she did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We note, however, that on 
September 20, 2010, Assistant Attorney General Britte McBride contacted the District Clerk, 
who acknowledged a misunderstanding of the Open Meeting Law's certification requirements 
and committed to following them thereafter. At that time, these provisions were still relatively 
new, having taken effect on July 1, 2010. Additionally, we spoke with the current District Clerk, 
Charles Eager, on August 8, 2012, and believe that he is also aware of the clerk's obligations 
under the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this 
letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerel 
onathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Alison Lowe 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
1  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
2 