===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL ONE ASHBURTON PLACE BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108  TEL: (617) 727-2200  www.mass.gov/ago  
  April 10, 2020         OML 2020 – 48   Robin Stein, Esq. KP Law, P.C. 101 Arch Street, 12th Floor Boston, MA 02110  By e-mail only: RStein@k-plaw.com   RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  Dear Attorney Stein:                                                                                                                                                                           This office received a complaint from Kathryn Gallagher on May 6, 2019, alleging that the Wenham Zoning Board of Appeals (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 25, and you2 responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated March 21, following an extension of time granted by our office.  The complaint alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting when a draft decision was circulated to a quorum of the Board prior to its January 24 meeting.   We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complaint, with five attachments, filed with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed the minutes of Board meetings held on May 31, 2017, and June 29, 2017.  In addition, we reviewed the notices and minutes of the four public hearings held by the Board on December 6, 2018, January 3, January 17, and January 24, as well as video recordings of those four meetings.3  Finally, we spoke with the complainant by telephone on June 6 and January 24, 2020,  and by e-mail on January 27, 2020, February 7, 2020, and February 18, 2020.                                                  1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2019. 2 For purpose of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 3 The video recordings of the four public hearings were provided to this office by the complainant.  We also received from the complainant and reviewed e-mails dated January 23, 2020, February 21, 2020, and March 5, 2020. 
===PAGE 2===
2  
FACTS   We find the facts as follows.  The Board is a five-member public body; thus three members constitute a quorum.  The complainant lives at 253 Larch Row, a single-family home, in Wenham.    During a May 31, 2017, meeting, the Board held a public hearing to consider an application from William and Henry Phippen for a special permit for the creation of a six-bedroom bed and breakfast at 253 Larch Row.4  The Board granted a special permit with certain conditions, including that only 12 events be held on the premises each year and that all events must end by 10:30 P.M.  During a June 29, 2017, meeting, the Board reviewed the special permit granted during the previous meeting and voted to include additional conditions as follows: outdoor events will be limited to Fridays, Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, any additional permits as required by zoning by-laws must be acquired,5 and the applicants must reapply the following year in order to give neighbors an opportunity to provide feedback to the Board.    In early September 2017, the complainant appealed the Board’s decision granting a special permit with conditions by filing a civil action in Essex Superior Court.6  On October 5, 2018, the Wenham Building Inspector issued a Cease and Desist Order requiring the complainant to stop operating the bed and breakfast at 253 Larch Row.  On November 5, 2018, the complainant appealed the Cease and Desist order to the Board.   Between December 6, 2018, and January 24, the Board held four public hearings with respect to the Cease and Desist Order issued for the bed and breakfast at 253 Larch Row.  Those hearings were held on December 6, 2018, January 3, January 17, and January 24, and the Board duly posted notices for those meetings.  The voting members for purposes of the 253 Larch Row matter were Board Chair Anthony Feeherry and Members Chris Vance and Evan Campbell.     During the December 6, 2018, meeting, the Board explained that the special permit granted on May 31, 2017, allowing the operation of a bed and breakfast at 253 Larch Row, was no longer in effect because the complainant appealed that decision to Superior Court.  The Board then heard from the Building Inspector and the complainant.  The complainant stated that she was not hosting any events, was not providing breakfast to guests, and only had five bedrooms available for short term rental.  The Building Inspector opined that under state law the complainant was operating a lodging house which required an occupancy permit and sprinkler system.  The Building Inspector stated that if the complainant took down the bed and breakfast website, held no events, provided no food or beverage, and offered only two rooms for rent, he                                                 4 William and Henry Phippen, along with their five siblings, grew up at 253 Larch Road, which is a seven-bedroom, 6,000 square-foot single-family residence that sits on 14 acres in the Town of Wenham.  The property is part of the Phippen Family Trust, to which the seven Phippen siblings and the complainant are trustees.  The complainant represented the applicants at all of the hearings before the Board. 5 Additional permits would include occupancy or parking permits, as well as compliance with the local fire code. 6 The complainant appealed the imposition of certain of the conditions imposed by the Board during its June 29, 2017, meeting.  On July 3, 2019, Justice Jeffrey Karp issued the following decision: “That the decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals for the Town of Wenham, granting . . . a special permit to operate a bed and breakfast known as Hurdle Hill Farm B&B, on real property located at 253 Larch Row, Wenham, Massachusetts, including any and all conditions, be and hereby is AFFIRMED.” 
===PAGE 3===
3  
would revoke the Cease and Desist Order.  The Board suggested that the complainant and Building Inspector work together to discuss possible solutions and unanimously voted to continue the public hearing to January 3.   During the January 3 meeting, the Board heard briefly from the complainant who stated that she disagreed with the Building Inspector’s assessment that she was operating a lodging house at 253 Larch Row.  The Board then closed the public hearing and discussed whether to uphold the Building Inspector’s Cease and Desist Order.  Chair Feeherry and Members Vance and Campbell each indicated that he would uphold the Cease and Desist Order issued by the Building Inspector.  Finally, the Board stated that a draft decision would be prepared for discussion and vote at the Board’s next meeting on January 17.   During the January 17 meeting, the Board did not substantively discuss its decision with respect to the Cease and Desist Order issued for the bed and breakfast at 253 Larch Row but unanimously voted to continue the matter to January 24.  On January 24 at 11:24 A.M., Planning Coordinator Margaret Hoffman e-mailed to the complainant, the Building Inspector, and Board Chair Feeherry a draft decision upholding the Cease and Desist Order issued for the bed and breakfast at 253 Larch Row that the Board was scheduled to consider at its meeting that evening at 7:30 P.M.  The remaining four members of the Board were copied on the e-mail.  The draft decision included the findings of the Board and the expected vote of each member.   During the January 24 meeting, Chair Feeherry stated that he and Town Attorney Robin Stein drafted a decision regarding the Cease and Desist Order, the draft was circulated to the Board prior to the meeting, but that the Board had not discussed the draft decision yet.  The Board then reviewed the draft decision and made one grammatical edit.  The Board unanimously voted to deny the complainant’s appeal of the Building Inspector’s Cease and Desist Order and “adopt the written decision upholding the decision of the Building Inspector for 253 Larch Row.”  DISCUSSION  The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c 30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  
===PAGE 4===
4  
The complaint alleges that “distribution to all members of the ZBA of a draft decision, prepared by ZBA Chairman Anthony Feeherry, [in advance of the January 24 meeting] was a violation of the Open Meeting Law.”  Approximately eight hours prior to the Board’s January 24 meeting, Planning Coordinator Margaret Hoffman e-mailed a draft decision to all members of the Board.  We find that the draft decision e-mailed by Ms. Hoffman to a quorum of the Board  was not deliberation.  See OML 2018-134; OML 2011-20.7  “Deliberation” does not include the distribution of “reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.”  G.L. c 30A, § 18.  Here, Ms. Hoffman’s e-mail did no more than distribute a document to be discussed at the Board’s meeting that night.  Furthermore, no Board member responded to that e-mail, and Chair Feeherry specifically stated during the January 24 meeting that only he and Attorney Stein worked on the draft decision and that the Board had not yet discussed the draft.    To the extent that the draft decision itself reflected the opinions and votes of a quorum of members on matters under consideration by the Board, these matters had all been discussed during an open meeting.  Contrary to the complainant’s contention, the three Board members who signed the decision during the January 24 meeting had each expressed, during the January 3 public hearing, his opinion that the Building Inspector’s Cease and Desist Order should be upheld and thereby revealed his expected vote on the matter.  As such, we find that the draft decision simply memorialized conversations that had already occurred.8  See OML 2019-78; OML 2013-127.  We find that the Board did not deliberate outside of a properly posted meeting and therefore did not violate the Open Meeting Law.    CONCLUSION  For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. Sincerely,     KerryAnne Kilcoyne        Assistant Attorney General        Division of Open Government                                                   7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 8 The complainant further suggests that the draft decision misrepresents certain evidence presented by her during the public hearings.  The Division of Open Government is charged specifically with reviewing complaints to determine compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, thus we decline to review, and offer no opinion on, whether any actions taken by the Board could be a violation of any other law or regulation pertaining to public hearings.  See OML 2014-31; OML Declination 6-25-18 (Rowley Planning Commission). 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
cc: Kathryn Gallagher – By e-mail only:  
 Wenham Zoning Board of Appeals c/o Planning Coordinator Margaret Hoffman –  
By e-mail only: mhoffman@wenhamma.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
