===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 27, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 130 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq. 
KP Law 
   
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
 
This office received two complaints from Gary Menin on March 16, 2021, alleging that 
the Chair of the Sterling Board of Health (the “Board”), Catherine Martin, violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. At the time the complaints were filed, the Complainant 
was a member of the Board. The complaints were originally filed with the Board on or about 
January 13, 2021, and you responded to both complaints on behalf of the Board by letter dated 
February 4, 2021. The complaints allege that the Chair deliberated via email on two occasions.1 
 
Following our review, we find that the Chair violated the Open Meeting Law, but that the 
Board took appropriate remedial action to cure the violation. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints; the Board’s response; the request for further 
review; two memoranda drafted by the Chair and sent on her behalf to the full Board on 
December 21, 2020, and January 6, 2021; and the notice and minutes for a Board meeting held 
on January 28, 2021.  
 
 
 
 
1 The request for further review raised additional allegations and concerns related to the delegation to Counsel of the 
authority to respond to the complaints; whether notice was timely given for a Board meeting held on January 28; and 
the communication policy adopted by the Board at the January 28 meeting. We decline to review these allegations 
because they were not raised in an original complaint filed with the Board and /or because they fail to allege 
violations of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2012-47; OML 2021-120; OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant 
Housing Authority Board of Commissioners); OML Declination 5-23-18 (Uxbridge Board of Selectmen).  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Board is a three-member body; therefore, two 
members constitute a quorum. At the time of the events at issue in this complaint, Board 
membership included Chair Catherine Martin; the Complainant, Gary Menin; and Allen 
Hoffman. On December 21, 2020, the Board’s Assistant, at the Chair’s request, sent to Mr. 
Menin and Mr. Hoffman via email a memorandum drafted by the Chair. The memorandum 
addressed Covid-19 updates and set forth rules for how Board members were to communicate 
with the Chair, how members of the public were to communicate with the Board, and where 
emails referring to Town employees were to be sent.   
 
On January 6, 2021, the Board’s Assistant, at the Chair’s request, sent to Mr. Menin and 
Mr. Hoffman via email a second memorandum drafted by the Chair. The memorandum 
addressed compliance with the Open Meeting Law and the Public Records Law, and set forth 
further rules regarding Board members’ communications with members of the public and town 
employees.  
 
On January 26, 2021, in response to the Open Meeting Law complaints at issue here, the 
Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on January 28, 2021. The notice included two 
topics, “1. Chair to read for the record memoranda distributed to Board members by e-mail on 
December 21, 2020 and January 6, 2021, no discussion or votes expected. 2. Discussion and 
possible vote to adopt Board of Health Communication Policy.” During the January 28 meeting, 
the Chair read aloud the two memoranda at issue here, and the Board discussed and voted on a 
communications policy.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-
(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation,” 
in relevant part, as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is “a simple 
majority of the members of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A one-way communication from 
one public body member to a quorum on business within a body’s jurisdiction is deliberation, 
even if no other members respond. See OML 2020-136.2 We have found that discussions 
regarding rules or bylaws for a public body may relate to public business within the body’s 
jurisdiction. See OML 2013-27. 
 
 We find, and the Board does not dispute, that distribution of the December 21 and 
January 6 memoranda among a quorum of the Board constituted deliberation outside of a 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
properly noticed meeting, in violation of the Open Meeting Law. The Board asserts, however, 
that it cured this violation when the Chair read the two memoranda aloud at the Board’s January 
28 meeting after having included this topic on a properly posted notice for the January 28 
meeting. We agree. Violations of the Open Meeting Law may be cured by independent, 
deliberative action that is not merely a ceremonial acceptance and perfunctory ratification of 
action taken in violation of the Law. See Pearson v. Bd. of Selectmen of Longmeadow, 49 Mass. 
App. Ct. 119, 125 (2000); OML 2020-7; OML 2016-49. Generally, that means conducting 
deliberations anew at a subsequent meeting that is accessible to the public and for which proper 
notice is provided. Here, the Board did not merely disclose that improper deliberation had taken 
place via email; rather, the Chair read aloud the two memoranda, in their entirety, that 
constituted the improper deliberation. Therefore, we find that the Board took appropriate 
remedial action to cure the violation.3 Compare OML 2011-35 (finding that release of the 
deliberative email, along with other steps taken, constituted proper remedial action), and OML 
2013-69 (finding that a public body cured the violation of deliberation outside of a meeting by 
disclosing in detail the substance of the improper deliberation), with OML 2013-17 (finding that 
a public body did not cure the violation of deliberation via email because it had not publicly 
released the deliberative emails).   
 
 Finally, we do not find the violation to be intentional, as the Complainant urges. An 
intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing 
violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. An intentional violation may be found 
where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the law’s requirements or has 
previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting Law. Id. To support his 
assertion that the Chair intentionally violated the Law, the Complainant states that he believes 
the Chair “actually knows the statute basics in regard to this violation – as I have informed her of 
same.” We find this to be insufficient to support a finding that the Chair acted to intentionally 
violate the Open Meeting Law. Additionally, we have not previously warned the Board against 
the violation found here,4 nor do we find other evidence that would support a finding of an 
intentional violation.  
  
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Chair violated the Open Meeting Law by 
causing two memoranda to be distributed to the full Board on December 21, 2020, and January 
6, 2021. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law 
and caution that a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate 
the Open Meeting Law. Because the Board took appropriate remedial action to cure the violation 
 
3 Although we find that the Board cured the violation when the Chair read the memoranda aloud at the January 28 
meeting, we note that the minutes of the January 28 meeting do not indicate the subject matter of the memoranda 
and do not list the memoranda as documents used at the meeting. We recommend the Board amend the minutes of 
its January 28 meeting to include these additional details. 
4 In 2018 the Complainant filed an Open Meeting Law complaint alleging that members of the Board had 
deliberated outside of a properly noticed meeting. OML 2018-92. This 2018 determination does not serve to support 
a finding of an intentional violation in the instant matter. First, we found in OML 2018-92 that the Board had not 
violated the Law as the Complainant alleged. Second, the facts presented in OML 2018-92 were entirely different 
from those presented in the instant matter. Third, the current Chair was not a member of the Board at the time of the 
events relevant to OML 2018-92.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
when the Chair read aloud both memoranda during the Board’s January 28, 2021, meeting, we 
do not order any further remedial action.  
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
 
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Catherine Martin, Chair of the Sterling Board of Health (via email: 
 
Gary Menin (via e-mail:  
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
