===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
\vww.mass.gov/ago 
March 8, 2016 
OML 2016 - 33 
Michael Embury 
Town Administrator 
2198 Main Street 
Brewster, MA 026310 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Embury: 
This office received a complaint from Ruth Courtnell dated December 1, 2015, 
alleging that the Brewster Beach Survey Work Group (the Work Group) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Work 
Group does not follow the Open Meeting Law, including posting notice and creating 
minutes of its meetings. The complaint was originally filed with the Work Group on or 
about October 29, 2015, and you responded, on behalf of the Work Group, to the 
complaint by letter dated November 9, 2015. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this 
matter. Following our review, we find the Work Group is a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law. In reaching this decision, we reviewed the original complaint; the 
response; and the request for further review filed with our office. We also spoke by 
telephone with you several times in January 2016. 
We find the facts as follows. In 2015, the Town of Brewster was in the process of 
developing a coastal management plan, which included the consideration of changing 
coastal conditions, beach preservation, and access to public beaches. On July 20, 2015, the 
Brewster Board of Selectmen (the Board) voted "that the [Town Administrator] create a 5 
member work group on beach acces. (sic)." The Board asked the Work Group to develop a 
survey for residents about public access to Town beaches. Leading up to the Board's vote, 
the Board had discussed residents' concerns with beach preservation and access to Town 
beaches. The ultimate goal of the Work Group is to create and distribute a survey Town 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
residents and ultimately submit the results to various Town boards, including the Board, 
for their review and possible action. The Work Group is not charged with considering the 
survey results or making any recommendations to the Town Administrator or the Board. 
Pursuant to the Board's vote, then-Town Administrator Charles Sumner appointed 
five individuals to the Work Group. Other than the appointment process, the Town 
Administrator has played no role in the work of the Work Group. Although it has a 
defined membership, the Work Group does not take votes or require the presence of a 
quorum in order to meet. To date, the Work Group has operated under the assumption that 
it is not a public body because it was created by the Town Administrator and it had no 
decision-making authority. However, it posts notice of its meetings and permits members 
of the public to attend and participate at its meetings. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law defines a "public body," in relevant part, as "a multiple 
member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or 
legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, 
elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]" G.L. 
c. 3OA, § 18. The Supreme Judicial Court recognized an exemption to the definition of 
"public body," however, in Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover. 409 Mass. 232 
(1991). In Connelly, the Court held that, where an individual public official creates a 
committee to advise that person on a decision that the official has the sole authority to 
make, that committee is not subject to the Open Meeting Law. Id at 235. 
The Town contends that, because the Work Group was created by the Town 
Administrator, it falls within the Connelly exception. While the Town Administrator made 
the appointments to the Work Group, he did so at the express direction of the Board. 
Because the Work Group was not created solely by the Town Administrator and its charge 
was not something solely within the Town Administrator's authority, the Connelly 
exception does not apply. See OML 2015-93; OML 2014-56.1 
Because the Connelly exception does not apply, we must determine whether the 
Work Group is a public body. To determine whether a multiple-member entity is a public 
body subject to the Open Meeting Law, there are three factors we consider; 
1. The entity must be "within" government and not excluded from the 
definition of "public body;" 
2. The entity must be a "body" empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a "public purpose." 
The Work Group satisfies all three prongs of this test. First, because it was created 
by the Town Administrator at the explicit direction of the Board, it is an entity within 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at: https://www,mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
government. Second, unlike a focus group, which we have deemed are generally not 
public bodies because they take no collective action, see OML 2012-20, the Work Group 
has an established membership of five members, who are collectively tasked with creating 
a survey. Thus, it is empowered to act collectively. See OML 2015-46. Finally, it serves 
a public purpose because its function is to create a survey on residents' Town beach use 
and compile the results to distribute to various Town public bodies for their review and 
possible action. Accordingly, we find that the Work Group is a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law. Because we find that the Work Group is a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law, we find that it violated the law by failing to comply with the Law's 
requirements. 
We take this opportunity to remind the Work Group of its obligations under the 
Open Meeting Law going forward. Notice of every meeting must be posted "at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays" and every 
notice shall include "the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that 
the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A 
public body is also required to "create and maintain minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of the documents and other exhibits used 
at the meeting, the decisions made and actions taken at each meeting, including the record 
of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Finally, all members of a public body must review the 
Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Guide and certify in writing that they have 
reviewed the Guide.2 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Work Group is a public body subject 
to the Open Meeting Law, and therefore violated the Law by failing to comply with its 
requirements. We order immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, 
and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to 
violate the law. Further, we order the Work Group to create minutes for all previous 
meetings to the best of its ability, through whatever means are available, including the 
memories and individual notations of the attendees. Compliance with this order should 
occur within sixty (60) days of the Work Group's receipt of this letter. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Work Group. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
2 The Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Guide can be found here: 
http://www.inass.gov/ago/docs/government/oml/oml-guide.pdf. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney Generai 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ruth Courtnell 
Brewster Beach Survey Work Group 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 