===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
January 3, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 1 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Thomas Delmar, Esq. 
Stoneman, Chandler & Miller, LLP 
tdelmar@scmllp.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Delmar: 
 
This office received a complaint from the Belmont Math Parents on May 30, 2023,
1 
alleging that the Belmont School Committee’s (the “Committee”) Curriculum and Instruction 
Subcommittee (the “Subcommittee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about March 29, and you responded 
on behalf of the Committee by letter dated April 14. The complaint alleges that the 
Subcommittee has failed to create and maintain meeting minutes since its inception in 2012. The 
complaint raises additional allegations, which we decline to review as explained below.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to create and maintain meeting minutes. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response, and the request for further review. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Meeting minutes must be reviewed and 
approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22; 940 CMR 29.11. “Timely manner” means 
“within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the 
public body can show good cause for further delay.” 940 CMR 29.11.  
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
The complaint alleges that the Subcommittee failed to create and approve meeting 
minutes since its inception in 2012. In its response, the Committee asserts that the complaint is 
untimely because the Subcommittee began complying with the requirement to create meeting 
minutes in February of 2021, and therefore the complaint does not relate to any meeting held 
within 30 days of the filing date.
2 We find this assertion unavailing where the Open Meeting 
Law imposes a continuing obligation on public bodies to maintain minutes of all meetings. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2013-45.3 
 
The Committee acknowledges that prior to February of 2021, the Subcommittee did not 
consistently create and maintain minutes for its meetings. The Committee explains that it has 
located two sets of meeting minutes for meetings held prior to February of 2021. The Committee 
further explains that it has asked the administration and six former Committee members to search 
their records for both physical and electronic meeting minutes but that such searches have not 
located any additional meeting minutes. Based on the information provided by the Committee, 
we find that the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to create and maintain 
minutes for all of its meetings.  
 
Next, we decline to review several additional allegations raised in the complaint. These 
alleg
ations include that the Subcommittee 1) created insufficient meeting minutes; 2) did not 
provide meeting minutes upon request; 3) took votes without specifying that it would do so on 
meeting notices; and 4) failed to make documents used at its meetings publicly available. We 
decline to review allegations one through three as they are insufficiently raised. Complainants 
must allege violations with a degree of specificity, as our office will not conduct broad audits of 
public bodies based on generalized allegations. See OML 2021-133; OML Declination 3-20-12 
(Wilmington Board of Assessors). The complaint does not identify any specific minutes that are 
alleged to be insufficient; any particular request for minutes that the Subcommittee failed to 
respond to; or any particular meeting for which the notice is alleged to have been insufficient.
4 
Finally, we decline to review the allegation that the Subcommittee has failed to provide 
documents that were used at a meeting. Although the Open Meeting Law provides that 
documents and exhibits used by a public body during a meeting “shall be part of the official 
record of the session,” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(d), and “shall be public records in their entirety,” G.L. 
c. 30A, § 22(e), requests for such documents are governed by the Public Records Law, not the 
Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 66, § 10; see also OML Declination 12-7-2022 (Everett City 
Council). 
 
 
2 The Open Meeting Law requires that complaints be filed with a public body within 30 days of the date of an 
alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4). If the alleged violation could not have been known at the 
time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the date on which the 
alleged violation could reasonably have been discovered. 940 CMR 29.05( 4).  
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 Although we decline to review this allegation, we note that in general it is reasonably foreseeable that a public 
body may take action and hold a vote following discussion of a topic listed on a meeting notice; the Open Meeting 
Law does not require that the notice separately indicate the possibility of a vote. See  OML 2022-239; OML 2021-
153; OML 2015-66; OML 2012-75. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Although we decline to review the allegation that the Subcommittee’s meeting minutes 
are in
sufficient, we take this opportunity to remind the Subcommittee that meeting minutes must 
include the date, time, and place of the meeting, the members present or absent, a summary of 
the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, and 
the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look 
for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2013-64. By substantial 
compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a 
member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear 
understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106. Although a transcript of the discussions is 
not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented, minutes 
must include a substantive summary of the discussion on each topic. See OML 2018-8; OML 
2012-29; OML 2011-55. It is not sufficient to simply include a statement that a specified topic 
was discussed, the law requires that the minutes summarize the discussion that was held. See 
OML 2022-61; OML 2019-167; OML 2018-8. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting 
Law b
y failing to create and maintain meeting minutes. We order the Subcommittee’s immediate 
and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that future similar violations may 
be considered evidence of an intent to violate the law. Additionally, we order the Subcommittee 
to create minutes for all past meetings for which it has not yet done so, to the best of its ability 
and through whatever means are available, including the memories and individual notations of 
the attendees. Although we order the Subcommittee to create minutes to the best of its ability, we 
acknowledge the potential infeasibility of accurately capturing the substance of the discussions 
that occurred during past meetings, and we remind the Subcommittee that minutes must 
accurately capture what was actually discussed and decided during the meetings. See OML 
2021-118; OML 2020-101; OML 2020-62. Within 90 days of receipt of this letter, the 
Subcommittee shall certify to our office that it has complied with this order to create meeting 
minutes. If, despite its best efforts, the Subcommittee is unable to create minutes for specific 
meetings, it must, within 90 days of receipt of this letter, explain to this office in writing what 
efforts it made to create those minutes. 
  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Subcommittee 
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Meghan Moriarty, Chair , Belmont School Committee  
(via email: mmoriarty@belmontschools.net)  
Ellen O’Brien Cushman, Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@belmont-ma.gov) 
Belmont Math Parents (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
