===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       December 19, 2024 
 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Janie Dretler 
Sudbury Select Board 
DretlerJ@sudbury.ma.us 
 
RE: Reconsideration of OML 2024 – 223 
 
Dear Ms. Dretler: 
 
Our office received your December 5, 2024, email in which you request reconsideration 
of our November 22, 2024, determination, OML 2024-223, resolving a complaint filed by 
Leonard Simon with the Sudbury Select Board (the “Board”).  In your letter, you request that the 
Division of Open Government (the “Division”) reconsider the determination, which concerned 
whether a quorum of the Board deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting.  
 
There is no statutory right to reconsideration by the Office of the Attorney General of an 
Open Meeting Law determination or declination.  While the Division generally will not 
reconsider past determinations, the Division may grant reconsideration where the request 
identifies a clerical or mechanical error in the determination or a significant legal or factual issue 
that the Division may have overlooked or misapprehended in resolving the complaint.  
 
You have informed us that the determination incorrectly referenced a telephone 
conversation between two Board members as having occurred on January 9, 2024, when in fact 
the conversation occurred on December 19, 2023.  In addition, the determination incorrectly 
referenced the memo that was discussed during the telephone conversation as having been 
included as part of the packet for the Board meeting held on January 9, 2024, when in fact the 
memo was included as part of the packet for the Board meeting held on December 19, 2023.  
Accordingly, we grant your request for reconsideration and reissue the determination to correct 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
factual errors in our November 22, 2024, determination letter.  However, these corrections do not 
alter our conclusion that a quorum of the Board did not deliberate outside of a properly posted 
meeting. 
 
Sincerely, 
  
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government  
 
 
cc: Leonard Simon – By email only:  
 Brian Riley, Esq. – By email only: briley@k -plaw.com  
 Sudbury Select Board – By email only: selectboard@sudbury.ma.us 
 Sudbury Town Clerk – By email only: clerk@sudbury.ma.us  
 

===PAGE 3===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
       December 19, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 223 
 
 
Brian Riley, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By email only: briley@k-plaw.com  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
 
This office received a complaint from Leonard Simon on February 9, 2024, alleging that 
the Sudbury Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about January 17, 2024, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated January 25, 2024.  The complaint alleges that a 
quorum of the Board deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting.  
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  In addition, we 
reviewed relevant open session minutes of Board meetings held between March 21, 2023, and 
January 23, 2024, as well as text messages between Board members Charles Russo and Jennifer 
Roberts.  We also reviewed video recordings of the Board meetings held on January 9, 2024, and 
January 23, 2024.
1  Finally, we spoke with Board member Janie Dretler on August 9, 2024. 
 
 
1 A video recording of the January 9, 2024, meeting is available at 
https://cloud.castus.tv/vod/sudbury/video/65a022f7d751620008b459dd?page=HOME; a video recording of the 
January 23, 2024, meeting is available at 
https://cloud.castus.tv/vod/sudbury/video/65b1a25b907efc00087a97cf?page=HOME.  
 
===PAGE 4===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board is a five-member public body; thus, three 
members constitute a quorum. 
 
During a meeting held on March 21, 2023, a member of the Zoning Board of Appeals 
presented the Board with a proposed zoning warrant article which would ban the manufacture 
and sale of guns and ammunition in the Town of Sudbury.  The Board discussed the legality of 
the article and whether it needed to be amended.  The Board then unanimously voted to refer the 
article to the Planning Board. 
 
On May 2, 2023, just prior to the start of Town Meeting, the Board held a properly posted 
meeting and agreed by majority vote not to support the zoning warrant article banning the 
manufacture and sale of firearms.  At the May 2, 2023, Town Meeting, the zoning warrant article 
was defeated by the voters.
2   
 
Thereafter, the Town Manager drafted a firearms bylaw, which the Board first discussed 
during a meeting held on May 16, 2023.  Board members suggested that they review and 
compare firearm bylaws in other local communities and recommend zoning restrictions.  The 
Town Manager proposed that members examine the draft bylaw and make edits which could be 
discussed at the Board’s next meeting. 
 
During a June 27, 2023, meeting, the Board reviewed edits made to the firearms bylaw 
and discussed whether certain restrictions could be challenged and whether to receive public 
comment.  The Town Manager recommended, and the Board agreed, that Town Counsel attend 
the next meeting to provide an opinion on the bylaw.  During a July 11, 2023, meeting, the Board 
heard from Town Counsel who opined that a complete ban on firearms would likely be 
challenged and invite expensive litigation for the town.  Each Board member then voiced their 
opinion as to whether they would support a ban on the sale of firearms. 
 
During the month of July 2023, Board members Charles Russo and Jennifer Roberts 
texted with each other about the firearms bylaw and discussed their thoughts and opinions on 
how to continue forward with the firearms bylaw, whether additional research was needed, how 
surrounding towns were dealing with similar bylaws, and how to respond to public comment.   
 
The Board continued to discuss the firearms bylaw during meetings held on September 
26, 2023, and December 19, 2023.  During the September meeting, the Board continued to edit 
the firearms bylaw discussing definitions, fire ranges, gun shops and insurance.  The Board also 
discussed scheduling a meeting in November dedicated to the bylaw topic, but members 
suggested more time was needed to gather information from experts and professionals.   
 
 
 
2 During the month of April 2023, Board members Charles Russo and Jennifer Roberts texted with each other about 
the zoning warrant article.  The texts included their thoughts and opinions on the scope and limitations of the article. 
===PAGE 5===
3 
 
As part of the packet for the December 19, 2023, meeting, Board Chair Janie Dretler3  
included a memo from the complainant, Mr. Simon, which suggested that the Board create a 
subcommittee to study the issue of and make recommendations on gun shops in town.  The 
memo also criticized Mr. Russo and his proposal for a zoning regulation that would permit the 
opening of gun shops in town. 
 
On the afternoon of December 19, 2023, Mr. Russo called Ms. Dretler.  The discussions 
that occurred during the telephone conversation are in dispute.  Mr. Russo explained that he 
merely expressed his displeasure with Ms. Dretler’s decision to include Mr. Simon’s memo in 
the Board packet.  Ms. Dretler agreed that Mr. Russo expressed his displeasure with her decision 
to include the memo in the Board packet, but that Mr. Russo also shared his opinions with her on 
the firearms bylaw.   
 
The December 19, 2023, meeting was held as planned and the Board convened at 7:00 
P.M.  During the meeting, the Board discussed zoning districts and parcel setback considerations 
with respect to the firearms bylaw and agreed that additional work on the bylaw was necessary.   
 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on January 9, 2024, at 7:00 P.M.  The 
notice included 12 topics, one of which was “Update on status and next steps on the proposed 
firearms business use zoning bylaw (continued from 12/19/23 meeting).”  As part of the packet 
for the January 9, 2024, meeting, Ms. Dretler included a memo from Mr. Simon which criticized 
three members of the Board (Mr. Russo, Ms. Roberts and Daniel Carty) for supporting the 
reduction of setbacks for gun shop locations and allowing gun shops near rail trails. 
 
The January 9, 2024, meeting was held as planned and the Board discussed edits to the 
firearms bylaw.  The Board heard from Planning and Community Development Director Adam 
Burney who explained that there were two possible locations in the industrial district which 
might be suitable for firearms business zoning.  The Board agreed to continue the discussion to 
the next meeting as one member was absent. 
 
During a January 23, 2024, meeting, the Board discussed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint at issue here and a draft response from town legal counsel which only referenced Mr. 
Russo’s recollection of the December 19, 2023, telephone conversation, i.e. that Mr. Russo was 
unhappy that the memo from Mr. Simon was included in the Board packet.  Ms. Dretler stated 
that she recalled the telephone conversation differently and reiterated that Mr. Russo discussed 
the firearms bylaw with her. 
  
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened.  G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public 
 
3 At the time of the December 19, 2023, meeting, Ms. Dretler was Chair of the Board.  Although Ms. Dretler is still 
a member of the Board, she is no longer chair.  
===PAGE 6===
4 
 
body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c 30A, § 18.  The law 
defi
nes “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of other 
procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a 
meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id. 
 
A public body may not engage in serial communication whereby a quorum communicates 
in a non-c
ontemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a particular subject matter within the 
public body’s jurisdiction.  See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (finding that 
private serial communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to 
circumvent the intent of the law); see also OML 2024-89; OML 2020-160; OML 2012-84.
4  
Relaying the same information through separate telephone calls or separate text messages to 
individual members of a public body does not insulate communication from the requirements of 
the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2020-160 (finding board violated Law when chair 
communicated to a quorum of the board by separate telephone calls); OML 2023-224 (finding 
planning board violated Law when member telephoned each of his fellow members separately to 
gauge interest in amendment of proposal to be discussed at next meeting).   
 
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board deliberated in a serial fashion outside 
of a pr
operly posted meeting.  Here, Mr. Russo and Ms. Roberts texted with each in the summer 
of 2023, and discussed their thoughts and opinions on the firearms bylaw.  Then, Mr. Russo 
spoke with Ms. Dretler via telephone on December 19, 2023.  The discussions that occurred 
during the telephone conversation are in dispute as to whether Mr. Russo discussed the substance 
of the firearms bylaw or only his dissatisfaction regarding including the memo in the meeting 
packet.  Regardless, we find insufficient facts to conclude that Mr. Russo’s communications with 
Ms. Dretler were of the same nature, or an extension of the same communications, as those 
conveyed to Ms. Roberts via text message six months earlier.  See OML 2024-208 (finding that 
separate text messages, although pertaining to the same general subject matter, were of a 
sufficiently different nature from each other so as not to constitute deliberation among a 
quorum).  Therefore, we do not find that the communications constituted serial deliberation, and 
the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.   
 
  
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 7===
5 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
 
Sincerely, 
  
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government  
 
 
cc: Leonard Simon – By email only:  
 Sudbury Select Board – By email only: selectboard@sudbury.ma.us 
 Sudbury Town Clerk – By email only: clerk@sudbury.ma.us  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
