===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
September 11, 2018 
OML 2018-127
Darren Klein, Esq.
KP Law, P.C.
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Klein:
This office received a complaint from Richard Thompson III, dated February 28, alleging 
that the Sherborn Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c.
30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 5, and the Board 
responded by letter dated February 22. In his complaint, Mr. Thompson alleges that a quorum of 
the Board deliberated outside of a noticed meeting.2
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged 
in the complaint. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response, and the request for further review filed with our office. We spoke with the 
complainant by telephone on August 7, and we spoke with the Board’s legal counsel by 
telephone on August 22.3 We also reviewed an e-mail from Assistant Town Administrator Diane 
Moores dated August 13.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board if a five-member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum. The complaint concerns a discussion that took place following a 
Board meeting held on January 25. Following the Board’s regular meeting, after the public left, 
Board members Paul DeRensis, Sean Killeen, and George Morrill remained in town hall.4 The
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 To the extent that the complaint alleges that Board member Paul DeRensis pressured the town manager to add a 
topic to an upcoming meeting agenda, we note that this allegation, even if true, would not constitute a violation of 
the Open Meeting Law. We therefore do not review it. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority 
Board of Commissioners).
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.
4 We note that Mr. Killeen has subsequently left the Board.

===PAGE 2===
underlying discussion concerned the Board’s consideration of Mr. Killeen’s contract as 
Community Maintenance and Development Director. Mr. Killeen and Mr. Morrill had 
previously recused themselves from discussion of this topic. Although the complainant did not 
overhear the discussion firsthand, Assistant Town Administrator Diane Moores claims to have 
overheard the discussion. According to the complaint, Ms. Moores heard Mr. DeRensis tell Mr. 
Killeen and Mr. Morrill that a discussion of Mr. Killeen’s contract should be added to an 
upcoming agenda. Mr. Killeen responded, “It will be three votes to one, and I’m not going 
anywhere.”
The Board’s version of the facts differs. The Board contends that Mr. DeRensis asked 
Mr. Killeen if he planned to resign from his position on the Board if a contract were offered for 
the Community Maintenance and Development Director position. The Board’s response states 
that Mr. Killeen then said yes, and Mr. Morrill then stated that he was recused and could not 
participate.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law requires all meetings of public bodies to be open to members of 
the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). The Open Meeting Law defines a “meeting” as “a deliberation 
by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
“Deliberation” is, in turn, defined as, “an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business 
within its jurisdiction.” Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is generally a 
simple majority of the member of the public body. Id.
Here, the complaint alleges that the January 25 discussion violated the Open Meeting 
Law. We note that a discussion merely of whether to add a particular topic to an upcoming 
meeting agenda, even among a quorum of the Board, would not constitute improper deliberation. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. However, regardless of which version of events we credit, the discussion 
went further and concerned Mr. Killeen’s contract and future plans.5 The Board contends that, 
because Mr. Killeen and Mr. Morrill were recused from discussion of the matter at issue, they do 
not count towards quorum for the purposes of the Open Meeting Law. This is incorrect.
Quorum is measured by a simple majority of the members, regardless of whether those members 
have voluntarily recused themselves or are otherwise disqualified from participating. See G.L. c. 
30A, §18; OML 2017-91.6 Because the discussion took place between or among a quorum of the 
Board outside of a noticed meeting, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution 
that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
5 The Board’s response states that the matter of Mr. Killeen’s contract was discussed at a subsequent noticed 
meeting. It is therefore clear that the subject is within the Board’s jurisdiction.
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: 
www. mass. gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Richard Thompson III
Sherborn Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3
