===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 25, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 114 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Jonathan L. Driscoll, Esq. 
Driscoll & Driscoll, P.C. 
Post Office Box 301457 
Boston, MA 02130 
Jonathan@drilaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Driscoll: 
 
This office received a complaint from Christine McCue Potts on August 20, 2025,
1 
alleging that the Medfield Housing Authority Board of Commissioners (the “Board”) violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Board on or about May 29, and, after an extension of time granted by this office, you responded 
on behalf of the Board by letter dated June 30. The complaint alleges that 1) minutes of the 
Board’s April 8 meeting, as approved on May 13, are inaccurate and insufficiently detailed; 2) 
the Board failed to timely create and approve minutes of its March 7 meeting; and 3) the Board 
failed to timely respond to a request for meeting minutes. 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law where the minutes of its April 8 
meeting do not accurately record the Chair’s response to the Complainant’s question. We find 
that the minutes of the April 8 meeting are sufficient with respect to the list of documents used at 
the meeting. We find that the Board failed to timely create and approve minutes of its March 7 
meeting. Finally, we find that the Board failed to properly respond to the Complainant’s request 
for meeting minutes. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, and the minutes of the Board’s 
April 8 meeting. We also reviewed the Town’s website for notices of Board meetings. Finally, 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
we listened to audio clips provided by the Complainant of portions of the Board’s April 8, May 
13, and June 10 meetings. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Board held meetings on March 7, March 11, April 
8, April 18, May 13, and May 27. During the Board’s April 8 meeting, the Board reviewed and 
approved the minutes of its March 11 meeting. During the April 8 meeting, the Complainant 
requested clarification via the Zoom chat function about which set of meeting minutes the Board 
had approved. The Chair responded, inaccurately, stating that the minutes of the Board’s March 
7 meeting had been approved.  
 
The minutes of the April 8 meeting, which were approved on May 13, accurately record 
that the minutes of the Board’s March 11 meeting were approved during the April 8 meeting. 
With respect to the Complainant’s request for clarification as to which set of minutes had been 
approved, the minutes of the April 8 meeting state “Chris McCue-Potts asked about the approval 
of the minutes: Chairwoman McDonald stated that yes the minutes were approved and are 
available.” The minutes do not include the Chair’s misstatement that the March 7 minutes had 
been approved. The minutes of the April 8 meeting include a list of documents used at the 
meeting, and that list identifies the March 11 meeting minutes as “March 2025 Meeting 
Minutes.” 
 
On May 13, the Complainant sent the Chair of the Board a request, via email, for the 
open session minutes of the Board’s March 7 meeting. The request was made pursuant to the 
Open Meeting Law.  By email on May 21, a paralegal from Driscoll & Driscoll, P.C. responded 
to the Complainant’s request stating as follows: 
 
I am writing on behalf of our client to let you know that the response to the request 
under the Open Meeting Law, made on May 13, 2025, for the minutes of two open 
sessions of the Medfield Housing Authority Board Meeting on March 7, 2025 will 
likely be delayed until next week. As reasons therefore, our client is currently  out 
of the state and is unable to obtain the requested documentation. Additionally, the 
policies that you had requested can be found on the Medfield Housing Authority’s 
website. 
 
Our office will reach back out as soon as we are in receipt of the aforementioned 
requested minutes. 
 
 At the time of the Complainant’s May 13 request, the March 7 meeting minutes did not 
exist in either draft or approved form. The Board approved the minutes of its March 7 open 
session meeting during a meeting held on June 10.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Meeting minutes 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
must set “forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” Id. 
When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial 
compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2017-104; OML 2016-105; OML 2013-
64.2 By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and 
accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes 
and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2019-163; OML 2012-106. While 
minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and 
the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented. See OML 2012-29; OML 
2011-55.  
 
 Open session meeting minutes must be created and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 
30A § 22(c). “Timely manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 
days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for delay.” 940 CMR 
29.11(2). Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the 
following meeting. Id. Open session minutes, “if they exist and whether approved or in draft 
form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 days.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). 
If the open session minutes do not yet exist at the time of a request, the public body is still 
required to respond to the request within 10 days, explaining that the minutes do not exist in 
either approved or draft form. See OML 2018-98; OML 2017-50; OML 2016-71; OML 2015-
173.  
 
I. We find that the minutes of the April 8 meeting are inaccurate with respect to the 
Chair’s response to the Complainant’s question but are sufficient with respect to the 
list of documents used at the meeting. 
 
We understand the complaint to allege that the minutes of the Board’s April 8 meeting 
are insufficient where they fail to record the Chair’s misstatement that the March 7 minutes were 
approved in response to the Complainant’s question about which minutes had been approved. 
Although meeting minutes do not need to be a transcript and do not need to include every remark 
made, the minutes must be accurate. To be “accurate,” meeting minutes must accurately reflect 
the discussions that took place during a meeting. See OML 2024-148; OML 2021-128; OML 
2019-145 (finding that omission of a clause changed the meaning of a motion on its face). 
Because the minutes of the April 8 meeting accurately record in the beginning that the March 11 
minutes had been approved, the summary of the Chair’s response to the Complainant’s question 
about which minutes had been approved, “yes the minutes were approved and are available,” 
suggests that the Chair stated that the Mach 11 minutes had been approved when in fact the 
Chair stated that the March 7 minutes had been approved. As such, we must find that the 
summary of the Chair’s response to the Complainant’s question is inaccurate. See OML 2021-
128 (finding that meeting minutes did not accurately record a chair’s response where the minutes 
included additional information the chair had not said). 
 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 We find that the list of documents used at the April 8 meeting is sufficient. The minutes 
of the April 8 meeting list “March 2025 Meeting Minutes” as a document used during the April 8 
meeting. With respect to listing the documents used at a meeting, the Open Meeting Law 
specifies that documents and exhibits used during an open session meeting shall be listed in the 
minutes and “shall be public records in their entirety,” although the documents and exhibits do 
not need to be attached to or physically stored with the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e); see also 
OML 2022-172; OML 2017-43; OML 2012-59. From this, we infer that the requirement to list 
documents used at a meeting is meant to assist members of the public and Town employees in 
identifying those documents for purposes of making and responding to public records requests. 
See OML 2022-221. Here, we find that “March 2025 Meeting Minutes” satisfies this purpose 
where the body of minutes of the April 8 meeting identify that the Board approved the minutes 
of the March 11, 2025, meeting. See OML 2022-221. 
 
Although not raised in the complaint, we note that when it is anticipated that a public 
body will discuss a particular set of meeting minutes, the notice for the meeting must identify the 
specific minutes that will be discussed. See OML 2025-96 (finding meeting notice insufficient 
where it did not identify the specific meeting minutes to be discussed); OML 2023-8 (same); but 
see, OML 2024-241 (finding notice topic “Review and Approval of Minutes from previous board 
meeting” sufficient where the board reviewed and approved the minutes of the immediately 
preceding meeting). We further note that in OML 2025-57, we found this Board in violation of 
the Open Meeting Law for failure to list on a meeting notice the specific minutes to be approved. 
 
II. We find that the allegation regarding timely approval of the March 7 meeting minutes 
was timely raised and that the Board failed to timely create and approve the minutes 
of its March 7 meeting. 
 
To begin, we must address the Board’s assertion that the May 29 complaint is untimely 
with respect to the allegation that the minutes of the Board’s March 7 meeting were not timely 
created and approved. Although the Board is correct in its assertion that, in general, Open 
Meeting Law complaints must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the alleged 
violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4). The Board is incorrect in its assertion that 
the instant complaint is untimely. Our office has consistently explained that the Open Meeting 
Law imposes a continuing obligation to maintain minutes of all meetings. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(a); OML 2025-35; OML 2020-69 (reviewing a complaint regarding failure to create and 
approve meeting minutes for a three-year period); OML 2018-115 (reviewing a complaint 
regarding failure to create and maintain meeting minutes for a four-year period). The violation of 
failing to create and approve minutes continues each day until the minutes are created and 
approved. See OML 2025-35; OML 2024-41; OML 2023-31. Because at the time of the present 
complaint the minutes of the March 7 meeting had not yet been approved, we find that the 
complaint was timely. 
 
Next, we find, and the Board acknowledges, that the Board failed to create and approve 
minutes for its March 7 meeting in a timely manner, that is, within 30 days or three meetings. As 
such, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.  
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
III. We find that the Board failed to properly respond to the Complainant’s May 13 
request for meeting minutes. 
 
We understand the complaint to allege that the Board failed to properly respond to the 
Complainant’s May 13 request for minutes of the March 7 meeting. In its response to the 
complaint, the Board asserts that the minutes of the March 7 meeting did not exist, in either draft 
or approved form, at the time of the Complainant’s May 13 request and the May 21 response to 
that request. The Board further notes that the May 21 response was provided on the eighth day 
following the request. However, as explained above and as acknowledged in the Board’s 
response to the complaint, if open session minutes do not yet exist at the time of a request, the 
public body is still required to respond to the request within 10 days, explaining that the minutes 
do not exist in either draft or approved form. See OML 2018-98 (explaining that the response 
must explicitly state that minutes do not exist); OML 2017-50; OML 2016-71; OML 2015-173. 
Here, the response to the request for minutes did not inform the Complainant that the minutes did 
not exist. Instead, the response suggested that the minutes existed but were simply inaccessible, 
stating that “the response to the request . . . will likely be delayed until next week. As reasons 
therefore, our client is currently out of the state and is unable to obtain the requested 
documentation.” 
 
Because the Board’s response to the May 13 request for minutes did not provide an 
explanation that the minutes did not yet exist in either draft or approved form, we find the 
response insufficient and that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.
3  
 
IV. We do not find that the Board intentionally violated the Open Meeting Law.  
 
We understand the complaint to allege that the creation of insufficient meeting minutes 
was an intentional violation. An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body or a 
member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02; see also, 
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with 
deliberate ignorance of the Law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain 
conduct violates the Open Meeting Law. 940 CMR 29.02.  
 
Twice in 2025 our office found that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
creating insufficient meeting minutes. OML 2025-6; OML 2026-57. In OML 2025-6, we found 
that the Board created insufficient meeting minutes where the minutes did not include a list of 
documents used at the meeting; did not adequately summarize a 40-minute discussion of an 
article written by the complainant, relying instead on a prepared statement that was attached to 
the minutes; and did not summarize at all a nine-minute discussion concerning vacancies. In 
OML 2025-57, we found that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include in 
two sets of minutes a list of documents used at the meetings.  
 
 
3 To the extent the complaint alleges that the Board was required to provide the requested minutes once they were 
created, we have explained that this is not required. Had the Board properly responded to the request explaining that 
the minutes did not exist, this would have satisfied its obligation to respond to the May 13 request. See OML 2021-
139. 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
We decline to find an intentional violation in the present matter. Unlike in OML 2025-6 
and OML 2025-57, we find no insufficiency here with respect to the list of documents included 
in the minutes of the Board’s April 8 meeting. We do find insufficient the summary of the 
Chair’s response to the Complainant’s question regarding which minutes had been approved 
during the April 8 meeting. However, the circumstances presented here are quite different from 
those present in OML 2025-6. In OML 2025-6, we found that the Board failed to sufficiently 
summarize a lengthy discussion and failed to summarize another discussion entirely. Here, the 
summary of the Chair’s response failed to include the Chair’s misstatement that the March 7 
minutes had been approved. Because the minutes of the April 8 meeting correctly identify the 
minutes that were approved as those of the March 11 meeting elsewhere, we find that the 
summary of the Chair’s response inaccurately suggests that the Chair told the Complainant that 
the March 11 meeting minutes were approved. The evidence before us does not support a finding 
that the Board intentionally violated the Open Meeting Law when approving the summary of the 
Chair’s response.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
where the minutes of its April 8 meeting do not accurately record the Chair’s response to the 
Complainant’s question; where it failed to timely create and approve minutes of its March 7 
meeting; and where it failed to properly respond to a request for meeting minutes. We order the 
Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that similar 
future violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. We additionally 
order the Board, within 30 days of the date of this letter, to amend the minutes of its April 8 
meeting to accurately record the Chair’s response to the Complainant’s question. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Medfield Housing Authority Board of Commissioners c/o Candace Avery , Executive 
Director (via email: medfieldha@comcast.net)  
 Marion Bonoldi, Medfield Town Clerk (via email: mbonoldi@medfield.net) 
Christine McCue Potts  

===PAGE 7===
7 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 