===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 3, 2024  
 
       OML 2024 – 188 
 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Verne Leach 
Chair, Peru Select Board 
selectman@townofperuma.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Leach: 
 
This letter addresses two complaints received from Caleb Mitchell on May 7 and May 25, 
2024, alleging that the Peru Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The first complaint was originally filed with the Board on or around March 15, 
and you responded to the complaint on March 30.  The first complaint alleges that the Board 
posted an insufficient notice for its March 4 meeting and failed to notify the Complainant that he 
would be discussed during the March 4 meeting and that the Board’s Chair
2 made inaccurate and 
offensive remarks during the March 4 meeting.  The second complaint was originally filed with 
the Board on or around April 17 and the Board responded on May 5.  The second complaint 
alleges that the Board’s Chair improperly responded to the first complaint. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting 
an insufficient notice for its March 4 meeting and by failing to properly respond to the first 
complaint.  We find that the Board did not violate the Law in the other ways alleged.  In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the complaints, responses, and requests for further review of the 
complaints.  We also reviewed notices and minutes for meetings held on March 4, March 18, 
April 1, April 17, and April 22, as well as draft minutes for the March 4 meeting.    
 
FACTS 
 
 The Board posted notice for a meeting to take place on March 4.  The notice included the 
topic “Discussion on Assessors job applicants,” without further detail.  The Complainant, Caleb 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2024. 
2 For clarity we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Mitchell, who had previously served as the Peru Town Administrator from 2017 to 2021, was the 
only applicant for the position.  The Board convened its March 4 meeting as scheduled.  During 
the meeting, Chair Verne Leach stated that he could not support Mr. Mitchell for the position due 
to his prior work history, including outbursts at meetings.  Board member Doug Haskins stated 
that the Board should not vote on the assessor position until there were more applicants, and that 
the matter should be tabled.  The Board did not take a vote regarding the assessor position. 
 
 Mr. Mitchell filed the first Open Meeting Law complaint on March 15.  Chair Leach 
responded to the complaint by email on March 30, before the Board reviewed the complaint 
during a meeting.  The Board posted notice for a meeting to take place on April 17 and included 
the topic “Discussion on open meeting law complaint made by Caleb Mitchell.”  The Board 
convened the April 17 meeting as scheduled and reviewed and discussed the first complaint; the 
Board included Mr. Mitchell in the discussion.  During the April 17 meeting, Chair Leach 
apologized to Mr. Mitchell and rescinded his statements made at the March 4 meeting regarding 
Mr. Mitchell’s work history. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently specific notice 
for its March 4 meeting but did not otherwise violate the Law regarding the March 4 
meeting. 
 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We have consistently 
stated that to comply with the specificity requirement, when discussing applicants for 
employment or appointment, the names of applicants which are known 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting should be listed on a meeting notice.  See, e.g., OML 2022-219; OML 2020-80; OML 
2019-24; OML 2018-94; OML 2016-150; OML 2013-163; OML 2011-23.3   
 
There is no suggestion that the Board did not know that Mr. Mitchell had applied for the 
assessor position more than 48 hours in advance of the March 4 meeting, nor that the Board did 
not anticipate discussing the application(s) received.  Therefore, the notice topic “Discussion on 
Assessors job applicants” should have included Mr. Mitchell’s name as an applicant to be 
discussed.  The Board violated the Open Meeting Law by including insufficient specificity on 
the notice for its March 4 meeting. 
 
The first complaint also alleges that the Board discussed Mr. Mitchell’s application 
without notifying him in advance; the complaint asserts that candidates must be notified when 
their applications will be discussed.  Except when meeting in executive session pursuant to G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) to discuss an individual’s reputation, character, physical condition or mental 
health or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, an 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
individual, the Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to provide personal notification 
of meetings to individuals who will be discussed or who have a direct interest in a matter.  
See OML 2019-139; OML 2013-41; OML 2011-41; OML Declination 9-26-23 (Amesbury 
Conservation Commission).  Furthermore, the Open Meeting Law allows a public body to enter 
executive session for one or more of the ten enumerated purposes, but it never requires a public 
body to enter executive session.  See OML 2022-177; OML 2019-160; OML 2011-40.  Although 
a public body may choose to discuss an individual’s reputation and character behind closed 
doors, there is no requirement that such a discussion occur in executive session, and the subject 
of the discussion has no right under the Open Meeting Law to demand that they do so.  See OML 
2012-32.  Because the March 4 meeting was held entirely in open session, the Board was not 
required to personally notify Mr. Mitchell that he would be discussed during the meeting.  As 
explained above, however, the public meeting notice was insufficient because it did not specify 
that the Board would discuss Mr. Mitchell’s application. 
 
 Finally, we decline to review the allegation in the first complaint that during the March 4 
meeting Chair Leach made disparaging and derogatory comments about Mr. Mitchell without 
presenting any evidence in support and that a draft of the meeting minutes included the 
disparaging comments.  The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  Even if true, an allegation that the chair made 
disparaging, derogatory, or false statements would not violate the Open Meeting Law.  See, e.g., 
OML 2020-167; OML 2014-47 n. 1.  Although we encourage honesty and candor during 
meetings of public bodies, we do not review statements made by public body members to 
determine their veracity.  See OML 2022-177; OML 2019-78; OML 2015-133.  Relatedly, we 
note that the Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies create meeting minutes that 
accurately summarize discussions that occurred during a meeting; we do not review meeting 
minutes to ensure that statements made are factually true.  See OML 2020-5; OML 2015-133. 
 
II. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to properly respond to the first 
complaint. 
 
The second complaint alleges that the Board failed to timely respond to the first 
complaint.  The Open Meeting Law requires that, unless an extension has been granted by the 
Attorney General, within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, a 
public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; 
and send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken.  940 
CMR 29.05(5).  Upon the filing of an Open Meeting Law complaint with a public body, the chair 
“shall disseminate copies of the complaint to the members of the public body,” and “the public 
body shall review the complaint’s allegations.”  940 CMR 29.05(3), (5).  Thus, a public body 
must meet to review the complaint and formulate a response, or meet to delegate that authority, 
and respond to the complaint within 14 business days.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); see also OML 
2017-69; OML 2012-90.  A public body may review a complaint during a meeting and then 
authorize a designated individual, such as its chair or an employee, to prepare and send the 
response, or the chair or another individual may receive the complaint and draft a response for 
the public body to review at a meeting, but the public body may not remove itself entirely from 
the process.  See OML 2020-164.   
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
The first complaint was filed with the Board on March 15.  Chair Leach sent a response 
to Mr. Mitchell, with a copy to the Attorney General’s Office, on March 30, before the Board 
had reviewed the complaint during a meeting.  The Board ultimately reviewed the complaint 
during a meeting on April 17, well past the 14-business day deadline for doing so.  We commend 
the Board for taking the subsequent corrective action of substantively discussing the complaint 
during the April 17 meeting and including Mr. Mitchell in the discussion.  Nonetheless, we find 
that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to properly respond to the first Open 
Meeting Law complaint. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficient notice for its March 4 meeting and by failing to properly respond to the 
first Open Meeting Law complaint.  We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with 
the Law’s requirements and we caution that similar future violations could be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the law.   
   
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Caleb Mitchell (via email: ) 
 Terry Walker, Town Administrator (via email: townadmin@townofperuma.com) 
 Peru Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@townofperuma.com) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
