===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
July 3, 2019 
OML 2019-78
Nancy Glowa, Esq.
Cambridge City Solicitor 
Office of the City Solicitor 
795 Massachusetts Avenue 
Cambridge, MA 02139
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Glowa:
This office received two complaints from Kim Courtney and Xavier Dietrich on February 
19, 2019, and April 16, 2019, alleging that the Cambridge Board of License Commissioners (the 
“Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The first complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on November 27, 2018, and the Board responded by letter dated 
December 12, 2018. The second complaint was filed with the Board on February 25, 2019, and 
the Board responded by letter dated March 14, 2019. The complaints allege substantially similar 
violations of the Open Meeting Law and, therefore, will both be addressed in this determination. 
Specifically, the complaints allege that the Board deliberated outside of a public meeting and 
approved Statement of Reasons letters that contained matters that were discussed outside of 
public meetings. Finally, the complaints allege that two of the Board’s members were not in 
compliance with the certification requirements of the Open Meeting Law at the time of the 
Board’s meetings at issue.1
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of an Open Meeting in the course of preparing the November 19, 2019,
1 The complaints contain other allegations, such as whether the Board sufficiently deliberated before taking certain 
actions and whether certain administrative decisions, like choosing dates of a suspension to be served, should have 
been decided by the Board. These questions turn on the fundamental issue of whether the Board and/or its members 
acted within the scope of its own authority. We note that, even if true, these allegations would not constitute a 
violation of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Accordingly, we decline to review them. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant 
Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). The complaints also allege that the Statements of Reasons letters 
contain untrue facts based on false testimony given at a disciplinary hearing. The Open Meeting Law likewise does 
not govern this issue. The Division cannot ensure, and the Open Meeting Law does not require, that the statements 
made by individuals at meetings are factually true. See OML 2015-133. Finally, we will not address any allegations 
concerning the October 12, 2012, Disciplinary Notice as those allegations were untimely.
o

===PAGE 2===
Statement of Reasons, but not with regard to the January 17, 2019, Statement of Reasons.2 We 
also find that the Board took appropriate remedial action upon learning that Open Meeting Law 
Certification Forms were not on file for two members.
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the November 20, 2018, complaint, the Board’s 
December 14, 2018, response, the February 19, 2019, request for further review, the April 3, 
2019, further response by the Board and the Complainants’ April 21, 2019, letter in response to 
the Board’s further response. In addition, we reviewed the February 25, 2019, complaint, the 
Board’s March 14, 2019, response, the April 16, 2019, request for further review and the Board’s 
May 22, 2019, further response. We also reviewed a selection of Board meeting minutes from 
2017 and 2018 in order to ascertain the length of time each Board Member had been attending 
meetings of the Board. Finally, we reviewed audio and video recordings of the November 7, 
2018, and January 16, 2019, meetings of the Board, and spoke with Ms. Courtney and Mr. 
Dietrich by telephone on May 23, 2019.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board consists of three members: Chair Nicole Ferrer, 
Police Commissioner Branville Bard, Jr., and Acting Fire Chief Gerard Mahoney. Thus, any two 
members constitute a quorum.3 Elizabeth Lint is the Executive Director of the Board.
I. The November 7. 2018. Commission Meeting and First Statement of Reasons
At the November 7, 2018, meeting of the Board, Ms. Courtney and Mr. Dietrich, owners 
of UpperWest Cocktail Bar (“UpperWest”), participated in a disciplinary hearing after receiving 
notice regarding several alleged violations at UpperWest. The alleged violations are summarized 
as follows:
1. Impermissible use of candles in a restaurant.
2. Refusal to cooperate with Fire Department officials during an inspection.
3. Threatening/intimidating  a witness.
4. Threatening a public official.
At the November 7, 2018, disciplinary hearing, the Board heard the testimony of Police 
Officer McGinty, Deputy Fire Chief Donovan and Fire Captain Arsenault who had been present 
at UpperWest for an inspection on September 29, 2018. Ms. Courtney and Mr. Dietrich cross- 
examined these witnesses. Ms. Courtney and Mr. Dietrich also testified on their own behalf and 
were questioned by the Board. In a contentious discussion, the Board also debated the meaning 
of certain Cambridge fire regulations with Ms. Courtney and Mr. Dietrich.
After about an hour, Chair Ferrer asked the other Board members if they were ready to 
vote. The Chair proposed finding violations on Counts 2-4 and imposing a suspension of 3 days 
on UpperWest’s general on-premises license for the sale of alcoholic beverages. Board 
Members Bard and Mahoney indicated their concurrence. As reasons for issuing the suspension
2 Although the two Statement of Reasons letters are undated, they are referred to here by the date on which they 
were emailed to the Board by either Ms. Lint or Chair Ferrer.
3 For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is a simple majority of the members of a public body. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18.
2

===PAGE 3===
on Counts 2-4, the Chair noted the fact that the licensees did not have a disciplinary record and 
had been in operation since 2016. However, the Chair stated that a three-day suspension was 
warranted because the violations were “such an egregious type of violation in terms of failure to 
cooperate and the threats made to public officials ... executing their official duties.”
As to Count 1, the Chair proposed that the Board find a violation, but also proposed a 
stay regarding any discipline pending the outcome of an ongoing appeal to the Fire Prevention 
Regulation Appeals Board (the “FPRAB”) regarding the regulation of candles. Board Members 
Bard and Mahoney indicated their concurrence.
Following the disciplinary hearing, Chair Ferrer drafted a Statement of Reasons letter 
summarizing the testimony heard by the Board at the hearing and stating the Board’s reasons for 
imposing the suspension on Counts 2-4, while staying action on Count 1. The Statement of 
Reasons includes language evaluating the strength of certain testimony (e.g. “Deputy Chief 
Donovan uncontrovertibly established...” and “The evidence presented to the Board clearly 
established...”). In addition, the third to last paragraph of the letter admonished Ms. Courtney 
and Mr. Dietrich that “the proper manner to challenge the issue [of the fire regulations] is to file 
an appeal and not to belittle the City officials, argue with them, invade their personal space, and 
make threats.” The relative credibility of the hearing testimony and the admonishment of Ms. 
Courtney and Mr. Dietrich had not been expressed by any member of the Board at the November 
7, 2018, meeting.
After drafting the Statement of Reasons, Ms. Ferrer provided the other two Board 
members with a copy of the draft decision by email on November 19, 2018. Chair Ferrer’s 
email, which copied Executive Director Lint, stated “Please send any comments or edits. Thank 
you.” The Board members responded that they approved and authorized Chair Ferrer to attach 
their electronic signatures. Ms. Lint then emailed the Statement of Reasons, signed by all three 
members of the Board, to Ms. Courtney on or about November 20, 2018. The Statement of 
Reasons was accompanied by a cover letter from Ms. Lint specifying the dates the three-day 
suspension would be served (January 16, 17, and 18, 2019) and providing instructions on where 
a sign must be hung at the entrance of UpperWest during the suspension.
On November 27, 2018, Ms. Courtney and Mr. Dietrich filed their first Open Meeting 
Law complaint with the Board. On December 12, 2018, at a public meeting, the Board discussed 
its prior Statement of Reasons and voted to ratify its prior approval of the Statement of Reasons. 
The Board also voted to stay the three-day suspension pending the resolution of an appeal filed 
by Ms. Courtney and Mr. Dietrich with the Alcoholic Beverages Control Commission (the 
“ABCC”).
II. The January 16. 2019. Commission Meeting and Second Statement of Reasons
On or about November 28, 2018, the FPRAB notified Ms. Courtney and Mr. Dietrich that 
their appeal had been dismissed, and that they had fourteen days to file for reconsideration. Ms. 
Courtney and Mr. Dietrich did not file for reconsideration. At a public meeting on January 16, 
2019, after the time to file for reconsideration had passed, the Board considered discipline as to 
Count 1. At this meeting, the Chair proposed issuing a two-day suspension as to Count 1, based 
on the evidence presented at the November 7, 2018, hearing, but also proposed staying the 
suspension until the conclusion of Ms. Courtney and Mr. Dietrich’s ABCC appeal. Finally, the
3

===PAGE 4===
Chair proposed that the two-day suspension for Count 1 should be served consecutively with the 
three-day suspension for Counts 2-4 for a total of a five-day suspension after the conclusion of 
the ABCC appeal. Board Members Bard and Mahoney indicated their concurrence.
Following the January 16, 2019, meeting, Chair Ferrer prepared a draft of a new 
Statement of Reasons summarizing the Board’s actions at the latest meeting. Chair Ferrer then 
gave the draft of the new Statement of Reasons to Ms. Lint, who emailed it to the other two 
Board members. Ms. Lint’s email did not indicate who had drafted the Statement of Reasons.4 
In the past, both Ms. Lint and Chair Ferrer had drafted Statements of Reasons with the assistance 
of their notes and the audio recording of the hearing. The only response Ms. Lint received to her 
email was from Chief Mahoney, saying “Ok,” which was sent only to her, on January 17, 2019.
At its January 30, 2019, meeting, the Board considered the Statement of Reasons that had 
been circulated and voted to approve it. On February 1, 2019, Christopher O’Neil, an 
administrative assistant to the License Commission Department, emailed the Statement of 
Reasons to Ms. Courtney and Mr. Dietrich. On or about February 25, 2019, Ms. Courtney and 
Mr. Dietrich filed their second Open Meeting Law complaint with the Board.
III. Open Meeting Law Certifications.
We separately note that Chair Ferrer filed a Certificate of Receipt of Open Meeting Law 
Material on January 11, 2016, shortly after she was appointed to the Board. Both Board Member 
Mahoney and Board Member Bard filed their Certificates of Receipt of Open Meeting Law 
Material on December 4, 2018. Mr. Mahoney has been a Board member since at least March of 
2017 and Mr. Bard has been a Board member since at least February of 2018.
DISCUSSION
I. The Board Chair’s email to the other board members circulating a draft Statement of
Reasons that contained her opinions was a deliberation outside a public meeting.
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law seeks to balance the public’s 
interest in witnessing the deliberations of public officials with the government’s need to conduct 
its business efficiently. To that end, the law defines deliberation as:
[A]n oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within 
its jurisdiction; provided, however, that “deliberation” shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other 
procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be 
discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed. G.L. c.
30A, § 18.
Although it is clear that certain administrative tasks are excluded from the definition of 
“deliberation,” that exception includes a strong caveat: such administrative communications are
4 Ms. Lint’s email stated: “For your review. This will be on the 1/30 agenda.”
4

===PAGE 5===
permissible “provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 
2013-5. For example, the distribution of minutes ahead of a public meeting is permissible as 
long as the minutes simply memorialize the deliberation that took place at a preceding open 
meeting. See OML 2013-127.
Email attachments are considered along with the body of an email when determining 
whether a public body member has expressed an opinion. See OML 2014-152. In addition, the 
expression of an opinion by one public body member on matters within the body’s jurisdiction to 
a quorum of a public body is considered a deliberation, even if no other public body member 
responds. See OML 2016-104; OML 2015-33; OML 2012-73.
Here, we find that the circulation of the November 19, 2019, draft Statement of Reasons 
by Chair Ferrer constituted deliberation among a quorum of Board members outside of a noticed 
meeting. To the extent that the draft simply memorialized the discussion that took place in the 
meeting, the circulation of the draft merely served an administrative purpose similar to 
circulating draft minutes. However, the Chair also added her conclusions about the relative 
credibility of the hearing testimony and admonishments of Ms. Courtney and Mr. Dietrich, 
neither of which was discussed at the November 7, 2018, meeting. By including these personal 
opinions in the Statement of Reasons and then circulating the draft Statement of Reasons to the 
other Board members outside of a noticed meeting, the Statement of Reasons became a vehicle 
for continuing the meeting’s discussion outside of a noticed meeting. Because the Statement of 
Reasons containing these opinions was sent by one Board member to a quorum of the Board, we 
find that this communication constituted deliberation outside of a meeting in violation of the 
Open Meeting Law.
In contrast, the January 17, 2019, Statement of Reasons was distributed to the other 
Board members without improper deliberation. This second Statement of Reasons carefully 
avoided any characterization of underlying facts and merely memorialized the actions taken by 
the Board at its latest meeting. Distribution of this second Statement of Reasons therefore more 
closely resembles the administrative task of circulating meeting minutes, which falls within an 
exception to the Open Meeting Law’s definition of deliberation. Therefore, we find that the 
dissemination of the second Statement of Reasons outside of a public meeting did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law.
Finally, we also note that, when Ms. Lint sent the second Statement of Reasons to the 
Board members, she did not ask for feedback, instead merely stating that the draft would be 
discussed at the next public meeting. Such a communication represents a best practice, because 
it does not encourage other Board members to give their opinions in a way that might constitute 
deliberation had they replied to all recipients of the email.
II. The Board took appropriate remedial action upon learning that Open Meeting Law
Certification Forms were not on file for two members.
Finally, the complaint alleges that two Board members, Mr. Mahoney and Mr. Bard, did 
not timely complete the Open Meeting Law certification form. The Open Meeting Law requires 
that “within 2 weeks of qualification for office, all persons serving on a public body shall certify, 
on a form prescribed by the attorney general, the receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, 
regulations promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a copy of the educational materials prepared
5

===PAGE 6===
by the attorney general explaining the open meeting law and its application pursuant to section 
19.... The certification shall be evidence that the member of a public body has read and 
understands the requirements of the open meeting law and the consequences of violating it.” See 
G.L. c. 30A § 20(h); OML 2011-39. The Open Meeting Law regulations further clarify that, 
upon a public body member’s qualification for office, the municipal clerk shall provide the 
required materials to the public body member and the public body member shall sign the 
certification within two weeks thereafter. 940 CMR 29.04(1).
Here, it is unclear whether the Clerk had provided the Open Meeting Law materials to the 
Board members and they nonetheless did not sign the certification, or whether they never 
received the materials, or whether they did sign and submit their certifications but the 
certifications were not retained. Regardless, as soon as it became evident that the certifications 
for Mr. Bard and Mr. Mahoney were not on file with the Clerk’s Office, both members filed their 
certificates with the Clerk’s Office on December 4, 2018. We find that the Board took prompt 
remedial action in response to this complaint and we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law.
See OML 2019-28.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that Chair Ferrer violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of an Open Meeting. We order immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of an 
intentional violation of the law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this 
determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may 
be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 
2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
^—
Sarah Chase
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Kim Courtney and Xavier Dietrich
Cambridge Board of License Commissioners
6

===PAGE 7===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
7
