===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
June 14, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 108 
 
 
Kevin Doyle 
Chair, Mansfield Housing Authority 
22 Bicentennial Court 
Mansfield, MA 02048 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Doyle: 
 
This office received a complaint from Oliver Kozlowski on January 11, 2022, alleging 
that the Mansfield Housing Authority (the “Authority”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Authority on or about December 9, 
2021, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Authority, by letter dated January 3, 
2022.  The complaint alleges that the Authority deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting 
when it drafted and sent a letter requesting the complainant’s removal from the Authority. 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Authority violated the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Authority’s response to the 
complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, the notices and minutes 
of the Authority meetings held on October 6, 2021, November 10, 2021, and December 1, 2021, 
and the November 24, 2021, letter sent by the Authority.  In addition, we communicated with the 
complainant on May 23, 2022.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum.  The complainant was appointed by Governor Charlie Baker to 
serve as a member of the Authority. 
 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
During an October 6, 2021, meeting, the Authority instituted a mask mandate requiring 
that masks be worn in all Authority indoor common spaces and that individuals participating in 
any Authority events wear a mask. 
 
During a November 10, 2021, meeting, the Authority held a meeting in which members 
met in person on Authority property.  The complainant refused to comply with the mask mandate 
during the meeting and Chair Kevin Doyle stated that he would report such conduct to the 
Governor.  Thereafter, Chair Doyle drafted a letter to the Governor informing him that certain 
actions of the complainant “have created a climate of hostility and animosity,” including that the 
complainant “blatant[ly] disregard[ed]” the mask policy by refusing to wear a mask during an in-
person meeting, and suggesting that the Governor “reconsider [the complainant’s] appointment” 
to the Authority.  After drafting the letter, Chair Doyle individually contacted three other 
Authority members to ask if they wanted to sign the letter.  He then separately met with each of 
the three members at their homes where they signed the letter.  The letter was sent to the 
Governor on or about November 24, 2021. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Authority of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting 
Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  
 
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Authority improperly deliberated outside of a 
properly posted meeting when Chair Doyle shared a draft letter with three other members 
seeking removal of the complainant from the Authority.  The Authority maintains that they did 
not deliberate because the members never met to sign the letter and further that the topic of the 
letter was not a matter within its jurisdiction for purposes of the Open Meeting Law.   
 
We have found in previous determination letters that a discussion was outside a body’s 
jurisdiction where it concerned purely interpersonal dynamics, see OML 2011-38; a completed 
decision over which the body had no further authority, see OML 2017-88; and political 
statements on matters not likely to come before the body, see OML 2014-135.1  We have also 
determined that a topic falls outside the scope of a body’s jurisdiction where: (i) it does not 
 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
involve the public body’s exercise of governmental business, policy, or administration; (ii) it 
relates to personal matters, such as the safety and well-being of public body members and/or 
their families; and (iii) collective action by the body, such as taking a vote, is not anticipated on 
the topic.  See OML 2018-1.  However, the jurisdiction of a public body for purposes of the 
Open Meeting Law is not so limited as to include only matters requiring a vote of the body.  See 
OML 2020-160. 
 
We find that the matters discussed within the letter were within the Authority’s 
jurisdiction and that the Authority violated the Open Meeting Law when a quorum engaged in 
serial communications regarding these matters outside of a properly posted meeting.  
Furthermore, whether Chair Doyle avoided telling members of the Authority what the other 
members said or thought, at the very least, the Authority deliberated via serial communication 
when Chair Doyle shared the draft letter with a quorum of the Authority when he met with each 
member for their signature.  A public body may not engage in a serial communication whereby a 
quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a particular 
subject matter within the public body’s jurisdiction.  See OML 2015-3; OML 2012-84; OML 
2011-27; McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that private serial 
communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to circumvent 
the intent of the Law).  Additionally, the process of polling Authority members outside of a 
properly posted meeting to determine whether they would sign a letter, as was done here, 
constitutes a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2016-52; OML 2013-75; OML 
2013-76; see also G.L. c. 30A, 22(b).  Discussing and reaching a consensus on how the 
Authority might undertake removing a member is a matter within the Authority’s jurisdiction 
and is precisely the type of deliberative action that the Open Meeting Law requires be conducted 
in an open and accessible manner.  See OML 2020-83; OML 2018-6. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Authority violated the Open Meeting Law 
by deliberating outside of a properly posted meeting.  We order the Authority’s immediate and 
future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations may 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  We also order the Authority to publicly 
disclose the November 24, 2021, letter, if it has not already done so.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Authority.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
cc: Oliver Kozlowski – By email only:  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
