===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORN EY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.govlago 
November 17, 2010 
Peter J. McQuillan, Esq. 
City Solicitor 
The Searles Building 
41 Pleasant Street 
Methuen, MA 01844 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney McQuillan: 
On August 12, 2010 this office received a complaint alleging violations of the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§18-25, by the Methuen City Council on June 25, 2010. 
Specifically, the complaint alleges, first, that the Methuen City Council violated the Open 
Meeting Law by discussing matters during executive session that should have been discussed in 
an open session. The complaint further alleges that the council's recording secretary was asked 
to leave the room for a period of time during the executive session, which resulted in a "gap" in 
the audio recording of the executive session. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Methuen City Council on July 5, 2010. The Methuen City Council's response to the complaint 
was received by this office on July 20, 2010. 
Following the receipt of the City Council's response, our office requested and received 
the following materials related to the June 25, 2010 meeting: minutes of the open session; audio 
recordings of the open and executive sessions; and a video recording of the open session. Our 
office also requested the minutes of the June 25, 2010 executive session, but was notified that the 
City Council did not maintain minutes for that session. 
We acknowledge that, at the time the alleged violation occurred, the revised Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§18-25, was not yet in effect. Therefore we apply the version of the 
Open Meeting Law in effect at the time of the alleged violation, G.L. c. 39, §23B. 
et) 
===PAGE 2===
Based upon our review of the provided materials we fmd the following: 
1. That the Methuen City Council violated the Open Meeting Law by conducting 
deliberations in executive session on June 25, 2010 that should have been conducted 
in open session; and 
2. That the Methuen City Council violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to maintain 
minutes of the June 25, 2010 executive session. 
We therefore order that, pursuant to G.L. c. 39, §23B, the Methuen City Council create, 
review, and make public the minutes of the June 25, 2010 executive session using the audio 
recordings provided to this office. We further order that the recordings of the executive session 
be preserved and made available as public records, pursuant to the requirements of the Municipal 
Records Retention Schedule, upon request. 
Analysis 
A. Inappropriate Deliberations in Executive Session 
The version of the Open Meeting Law in effect on June 25, 2010 provided that public 
bodies may enter executive session for nine delineated purposes, including: 
(3) To discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation, if an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the 
governmental body; to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with non-
nnion personnel; and to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations 
with non-union personnel. ("Purpose 3"). 
G.L. c. 39, §23B. 
The minutes of the June 25, 2010 open session reflect that the City Council entered into 
executive session "for the purpose of discussing collective bargaining, negotiations, and 
contracts." In its response to the complaint, the City Council states that negotiations with the 
Methuen Police Patrolmen's Association were ongoing at the time. 
The audio recording of the meeting confirms that, after appropriately entering executive 
session, the City Council discussed the contract with the Patrolmen's Association. 
Approximately one hour into the executive session, however, the discussion shifted into a more 
general discussion about an interim budget. At that point, all individuals who were not City 
Councilors were instructed to leave the room. 
While it is reasonable to anticipate that some discussion of the budget would be part of 
the collective bargaining discussion, executive session may not be used as a blanket reason to 
deliberate on matters other than those pertaining to the specific purpose for which the executive 
session was called. See District Attorney for the Northwestern District v. Selectmen of 
Sunderland, 11 Mass. App. Ct. 663, 666 (1981). 
===PAGE 3===
We acknowledge that the task of managing the flow of conversation about all manner of 
public business can be a complicated one. Nevertheless, it is incumbent upon the public body to 
carefully monitor the subject matter of discussion when in executive session to ensure that topics 
do not stray from the purpose for which the executive session was called. In this instance, 
executive session was entered under Purpose 3. Here, the recordings indicate that significant 
discussion on matters other than those directly related to Purpose 3 were undertaken by the City 
Council in contravention of the Open Meeting Law. The discussion appears to change course at 
roughly the time that the recording secretary was asked to leave the Council chambers. Upon 
review, we find that the deliberations occurring after that point should have been reserved for 
open session. By failing to have those deliberations in open session, the City Council violated 
G.L. c. 39, § 23B. 
B. 	 Failure to Maintain Minutes of the Executive Session 
The version of the Open Meeting Law in effect on June 25, 2010 stated that "[a] 
governmental body shall maintain accurate records of its meetings, setting forth the date, time, 
place and members present or absent and action taken at each meeting, including executive 
sessions." G.L. c, 39, §23B. The complaint alleges that the absence of the recording secretary 
coupled with a gap in the audio recording of the executive session resulted in a violation of the 
Open Meeting Law. 
While the open session portion of meetings of public bodies may be recorded, public 
bodies are not required to record or transcribe either open or executive sessions. See Perryman 
v. School Committee of Boston,  17 Mass. App. Ct. 346 (1983). During the June 25,2010 
meeting, the City Council opted to create an audio recording of its executive session and though 
the recording is inaudible at times, there is no discernible gap in it. However, while recordings 
are optional, the law now and in effect at the time of this meeting clearly requires public bodies 
to create and maintain minutes of executive sessions. But the City Council did not create or 
maintain minutes for the June 25, 2010 executive session. Therefore, the City Council violated 
G.L. c. 39, §23B. 
Order 
To remedy the violations of the Open Meeting Law detailed above, we order that the 
Methuen City Council create and approve the minutes of the June 25, 2010 executive session, 
pursuant to G.L. c. 39, §23B, as soon as possible and no later than 10 days following the receipt 
of this determination. We specifically order that the Council create and make public 
immediately the portion of the minutes during which the Council deliberated on subject matter 
not appropriate for executive session under Purpose 3, beginning at approximately the time the 
recording secretary exited the Council chambers. The minutes of the executive session prior to 
that point in time should be created and reviewed in due course to determine whether the reason 
for entering executive session continues to apply. If the purpose for which the City Council 
entered executive session on June 25, 2010 no longer applies, those minutes should also be 
released. 
===PAGE 4===
Thank you for your cooperation and that of your office in providing us with the requested 
information to assist us in resolving this matter. Please contact me with any questions regarding 
this or any other matter. 
Sincerely, 
ipt,(CLA. 
Britte McBride 
Director 
Division of Open Government 
cc: J.J. Huggins, Lawrence Eagle-Tribune 