===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
November 10, 2014 
OML 2014-129 
Brian W. Riley, Esq. 
Kopelman & Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Riley; 
This office received a complaint from Ms. Robin Wadsworth, dated September 14, 
alleging that the Peru Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 27, and the Board 
responded to the original complaint by letter dated August 9. In her complaint, Ms. Wadsworth 
alleges that the Board failed to include with its meeting minutes documents related to a 
discussion, and that the Board improperly required her to submit questions in writing. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Board's response; and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the minutes for a meeting of 
the Board held on June 16. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body which meets 
regularly to discuss matters of town governance. On June 16, the Board held a meeting during 
which it noted that a "complaint" had been filed against the Town of Peru by the Massachusetts 
Inspector General. The minutes from this meeting reflect the following: "[Chair] Leach informs 
the other board members of complaints filed by the [Inspector General] about concerns of 
employees that hold positions in multiple towns. It was decided to install time clocks and have 
the employees use them to show their hours." 
On July 8, Ms. Wadsworth made a request to the Town Clerk to review the minutes of 
the Board's June 16 meeting. When she observed that a "complaint" was mentioned during the 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
===PAGE 2===
meeting, she inquired of the Town Clerk whether a copy of this "complaint" was included with 
the minutes. The Town Clerk informed her that the minutes had no attachments. 
The Board held a meeting on July 14. Ms. Wadsworth attended and, when recognized to 
speak, she asked why a copy of the Inspector General's "complaint" was not attached to the June 
16 meeting minutes. Chair Leach asked Ms. Wadsworth to submit her question to the Board in 
writing. No further discussion of this topic took place during the July 14 meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
I. We Decline to Review the Allegation that the Board Improperly Withheld the 
Inspector General's Complaint Because this Document was not Used at a Meeting 
of the Board 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings." G.L. c. 3 OA, § 22(a). Minutes should contain enough detail and 
accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes 
and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55.2 Meeting 
minutes must also contain "a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting." G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a). All documents and exhibits used by a public body during an open meeting "shall 
be public records in their entirety." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e). The Attorney General's Office 
considers a document to be "used" at a meeting when it is, at a minimum, physically present, 
verbally identified, and its contents are discussed by members of the public body during an open 
session. See OML 2012-42; OML 2011-18. 
Here, a copy of the Inspector General's "complaint" was not present at the June 16 
meeting. As Chair Leach wrote in his response, "The complaint was not present at the meeting 
[and was] just mentioned to verify the need for the time clock installed in the town hall." The 
complaint was verbally identified only in that Chair Leach mentioned its existence to the other 
Board members. Its contents were discussed only tangentially, as part of the discussion of a 
related topic. Based on this information, we find that the complaint was not "used" during the 
June 16 meeting. Requests for documents other than those used during a meeting are governed 
by the Public Records Law rather than the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 4, § 7, cl. 26. 
Accordingly, we decline to review this allegation and refer the complainant to the Supervisor of 
Records in the Secretary of the Commonwealth's Public Records Division. See OML 2013-59. 
II. The Board did not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Requiring the Complainant 
to Put Her Questions in Writing 
The Open Meeting Law states that "[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body 
without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(f). The Open Meeting Law therefore gives discretion to the chair of a public body 
to determine who may speak or otherwise participate in the meeting. See OML 2014-23; OML 
2013-64; OML 2012-59. Here, Ms. Wadsworth alleges that it was improper for the Board to 
2 Copies of past determinations can be found at the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
require that she submit her questions in writing. The Board, in response, states that the answers 
to her questions would have required research and it would have been disruptive to the meeting 
for a selectman to leave the meeting in order to verify information with the Town Clerk. While 
we offer no opinion as to the wisdom of the Board's policy, we find that it was not a violation of 
the Open Meeting Law for Chair Leach to require that questions be submitted to the Board in 
writing. We note, however, that the Attorney General's Office encourages public bodies to 
allow public participation during meetings whenever reasonably possible. See OML 2012-59; 
OML 2012-23. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ms. Robin Wads worth 
Peru Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 