===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 16, 2021 
 
OML 2021-191 
 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Colleen Mejia 
Everett City Solicitor 
Office of the City Solicitor, Everett City Hall 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Mejia: 
This determination addresses one complaint from Steven Fitzgerald alleging that the 
Everett Zoning Board of Appeals (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. In total, Mr. Fitzgerald has filed approximately 80 separate Open Meeting Law 
complaints with public bodies in Everett over the past year. The complaint addressed herein is 
dated June 14, 2021.1,2 The complaint alleges that the livestream of the Board’s June 7 meeting 
was mislabeled on Facebook as being a meeting of the Everett Licensing Board. 
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination we reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaint filed with the 
Board, the Board’s response, and the request for further review. Additionally, we communicated 
with the Complainant via email. 
 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
The notice must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, 
 
1 All dates herein are in 2021, unless otherwise noted. 
2 Because of the volume of complaints Mr. Fitzgerald has filed with public bodies in Everett, many on the same date 
and/or raising similar allegations, we have numbered the complaints for tracking purposes. This determination 
addresses complaint number 35. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
time and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed. Id. The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on June 7. The notice 
provided that “members of the public who wish to watch, listen or provide comment during the 
meeting may do so in the following manner: The meeting will be live to view at 7:00 pm on 
Facebook https://www.facebook.com/cityofeverettma.” 
 
The complaint does not allege any deficiency with the notice for the June 7 meeting nor 
that the meeting was inaccessible to the public at the link contained on the meeting notice; the 
complaint alleges that when the meeting was streamed live on Facebook at the posted link it was 
incorrectly labeled as being a meeting of the Everett Licensing Board. The complaint further 
alleges that this was done intentionally to mislead the public because the Board would be 
discussing a property owned by the chair of the Everett Licensing Board. The Board responds 
that the “Information Technology Director inadvertently did not change the label of the stream 
from ‘Licensing Board’ to ‘Zoning Board[.]’ The stream was clearly the Zoning Board of 
Appeals meeting.”  
 
On July 29 our office contacted the Complainant requesting any additional information 
he thought would be helpful in our review of this complaint, and specifically requesting any 
information he thought supported his claim that the Board intentionally mislabeled the livestream 
of its June 7 meeting. The Complainant responded to this request that same day but did not 
provide any additional information relevant to review of the allegation that the Board 
intentionally mislabeled the livestream of its meeting. The Open Meeting Law does not speak to 
the labeling of meetings as they are livestreamed to the public or recordings of meetings posted 
online after the fact, nor is there any evidence that the Board acted to hide its June 7 meeting 
from the public. Therefore, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it 
inadvertently mislabeled the livestream of its June 7 meeting as being a meeting of the Everett 
Licensing Board. Although we do not find a violation, we note that the Board and the 
municipality should make every effort to provide the public with accurate information regarding 
public body meetings. 
 
The complaint also suggests that the members of the Board may have failed to comply 
with the certification requirements of the Open Meeting Law. We take this opportunity to remind 
the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that “within 2 weeks of qualification for office, 
all persons serving on a public body shall certify . . . the receipt of a copy of the open meeting 
law, regulations promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a copy of the educational materials 
prepared by the attorney general . . . .” G.L. c. 30A § 20(h). If members of the Board have not 
yet completed the required Open Meeting Law certification form, they should do so 
immediately.3  
 
For the above reasons, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
3 The Open Meeting Law Certification Form, as well as our educational materials and past determinations can be 
found on the Division’s website at https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Mary Gerace, Chair of the Everett Zoning Board of Appeals (via email: 
) 
Roberta Suppa, Administrative Assistant to the Everett Zoning Board of Appeals  
 (via e-mail: ) 
Steven Fitzgerald (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
