===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 19,2018 
OML 2018-107 
Katherine M. Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
Lhis office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan, dated June 1, alleging that the 
Ashland Board of Health (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 
Lhe complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 30, and, after our office granted an 
extension of time, the Board responded by letter dated June 1. In his complaint, Mr. Morgan 
alleges that the Board failed to create and approve minutes of several meetings.2 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29,07(2)(a), and find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. Public 
bodies must create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Here, 
the complaint alleges that the Board failed to create and maintain minutes of certain meetings. In 
support of this allegation, the complainant submitted along with his complaint a printout of a 
section of the Board's website, and pointed to certain meeting minutes that were alleged to be 
missing from the website. Lhe minutes that the complainant asserted were missing were for 
January 29 and February 2 meetings of one of the Board's subcommittees, and a March 8 
meeting that had been scheduled for the "Region 4A Public Health Emergency Preparedness 
Coalition." We note that the March 8 meeting did not take place, and therefore no minutes were 
required. 
With respect to the January 29 and February 2 meetings, we note that the meetings at 
issue were held by one of the Board's subcommittees. Lhe subcommittee is a public body 
' Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018. 
2 To the extent that the complaint alleges that the Board's minutes should be posted to a municipal website, we 
remind the complainant—again—that the Open Meeting Law does not require meeting minutes to be posted to any 
particular location, including to a municipal website. See OML Declination 6-19-18 (Ashland Zoning Board of 
Appeals). Instead, they must be made available upon request in accordance with G.L. c. 30A, § 22. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
distinct from the Board, and any allegations concerning the subcommittee should have been filed 
with that body. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). However, because the Board responded to the 
complaint and treated it as properly-filed, we exercise our discretion to review it now. The 
Board's legal counsel provided us with copies of the draft minutes of the January 29 and 
February 2 meetings. It is therefore clear that minutes were created for the meetings at issue, and 
we therefore find no violation with respect to this allegation.3 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Stephen Morgan 
Ashland Board of Health 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 To the extent that the complaint might be interpreted as alleging that the minutes have not been timely approved, 
the Board's legal counsel stated to us that the subcommittee has not met since February 2. See 940 CMR 29.11(2) 
(minutes must be created and approved within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is 
later). We are informed that the subcommittee will approve the draft minutes when it next meets. 
2 