===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 20, 2017 
OML 2017-42 
Robert Douglas 
Director of Conservation 
Town of Andover 
36 Bartlet Street 
Andover, MA 01810 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Douglas: 
This office received a complaint from Jayan Marie Landry on January 6, 2017 
alleging that the Andover Conservation Commission (the "Commission") violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the 
Commission on January 3, 2017, and you responded, on behalf of the Commission, by 
letter dated January 4, 2017. The complaint alleges that the topics listed on the 
Commission's December 6 meeting notice lacked sufficient detail.2 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to list topics with sufficient detail in the notice for its December 6 
meeting. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Commission's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review. We also reviewed the notice of and open session minutes from 
the Commission's December 6 meeting, as well as a video recording of that meeting." 
Finally, we spoke with you and your assistant, Lynn Viselli, by telephone on February 
22, 2017. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 The complaint also alleges that abutters of Dug Pond, the location of the Eagle Scout Project, should have 
been given notice of the meeting and an opportunity to be heard. Except when meeting in executive 
session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1), the Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to 
provide additional notice of meetings to specific individuals or groups of individuals for topics discussed 
during a meeting. See OML 2013-41; OML 2011-41. Moreover, while the public is permitted to attend 
meetings of public bodies, an individual may not address the public body without permission of the 
chair. See G.L. c. BOA, § 20(g); OML 2013-64. 
3 The video recording is available at andovertv.org. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On November 25, the Commission posted notice 
with the Town Clerk for a meeting to be held on December 6 at 7:45 P.M. The notice 
listed two "Public Hearings," one at 7:45 P.M. and the other at 8:15 P.M., to discuss 
Notices of Intent filed for five specifically identified properties under the Wetlands 
Protection Act. The notice then listed "Other Business" which included the following 
topics: Minutes, 6 Acorn Drive, 2 Acorn Drive, 353 Salem Street, 55 Harold Parker 
Road, Eagle Scout Project, and Emergency Certification. No other information was 
provided with respect to the nature of the Commission's anticipated discussions on these 
topics. 
We note that a more detailed agenda can be found on the Town's website, 
www.andoverma.gov. This agenda specifically identifies the nature of the Commission's 
anticipated discussions for each topic. For example, under the topic of Minutes, the 
agenda lists "Approval of Minutes from November 15, 2016;" and under Eagle Scout 
Project, "Update on Sam Garth's Eagle Scout Project at Dug Pond." Ms. Viselli 
explained that this detailed agenda was created for and provided to Commission members 
prior to the December 6 meeting. 
The December 6 meeting was held as planned. During "Other Business," the 
Commission approved minutes from its November 15 meeting; discussed a request for a 
certificate of compliance with respect to 6 Acorn Drive; discussed a request for a 
satisfactory completion of work certificate for 2 Acorn Drive; tabled two requests for 
certificates of compliance with respect to 353 Salem Street and 55 Harold Parker Road; 
discussed the completion of an Eagle Scout Project at Dug Pond; and ratified an 
emergency certification issued to breach a beaver dam at High Plain Road. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b). The notice must 
be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and 
place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed. Id. The list of topics shall have "sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's 
discussion. See OML 2015-35.4 
Although the complaint focuses on the notice's insufficient detail with respect to 
the topic of Eagle Scout Project, we find that all the topics listed under "Other Business" 
lacked sufficient detail. We note that the agenda created for and provided to Commission 
members was sufficiently detailed but that the notice posted with the Town Clerk did not 
4 Open Meeting Law detenninations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
provide members of the public with adequate knowledge of the issues to be discussed at 
the Commission's December 6 meeting. Accordingly, we find that the Commission 
violated the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to include sufficient detail on its December 6 meeting notice. 
We order the Commission's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent 
to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Commission. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Jayan Marie Landry 
Andover Conservation Commission 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt 
of a final order. 