===PAGE 1===
  THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
1 
 
August 19, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 105 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Burton Flint 
Vice-chair, Concord Planning Board   
  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Mr. Flint: 
 
This office received a complaint from Tanya Gailus on February 10, 2020, alleging that 
the Concord Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about November 18, 2019, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated December 9, 2019.
1,2 The complaint alleges that 
the minutes of the Board’s September 10 meeting are insufficiently detailed and inaccurate.3   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
inaccurately stating in its September 10 meeting minutes that a member’s vote would be subject 
to review of a draft recommendation letter. We find the Board’s September 10 meeting minutes 
to be otherwise accurate. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original Open Meeting 
Law complaint; the Board’s response; the request for further review; the minutes of the 
September 10 meeting; video recordings of the Board’s September 10, September 24, and 
 
1 Hereinafter, all dates are in 2019, unless otherwise stated.  
2 Although the Board’s response was timely, after reviewing the video recording of the Board’s November 26 
meeting we note that, the Board appears to be mistaken about the timeframe in which it must review and respond to 
Open Meeting Law complaints. A public body has 14 business days to review and respond to an Open Meeting Law 
complaint, not 14 business days to review the complaint and an additional 14 days to respond. See 940 CMR 
29.05(5). If a public body needs additional time to respond to a complaint, it may request an extension of time from 
the Director of the Division of Open Government. A request for an extension of time must be received by our office 
before the expiration of the 14-business day deadline. 
3 We note that our review is limited to allegations of violation of the Open Meeting Law raised in the original 
complaint filed with the Board. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
  
November 26 meetings;4 and the minutes of the Concord Zoning Board of Appeals’ (the “Board 
of Appeals”) September 12 meeting.  
 
FACTS  
 
We find the facts as follows. The Board convened a meeting on September 10. During 
the meeting, the Board discussed a proposed special permit for a Planned Residential 
Development at 430 Old Bedford Road (the “PRD Plan”). During the meeting, several 
individuals gave presentations related to the PRD Plan application and answered questions from 
the Board regarding updates to the PRD Plan in response to earlier feedback from the Board. 
Additionally, members of the public addressed the Board regarding the PRD Plan. The 
discussion of the PRD Plan lasted approximately ninety minutes. 
 
After the presentations and public comment period, the Board began its own discussion 
of the PRD Plan, including determining whether the plan met the required criteria under the 
Town’s zoning bylaws. Of particular relevance to the present complaint is the Board’s discussion 
relating to the PRD Plan’s suitability for the neighborhood and whether it conformed to the 
Town’s long-range land use plan. This portion of the Board’s discussion lasted for approximately 
five minutes, during which three members of the Board, including the Chair, expressed their 
overall support of the PRD Plan and explained why they believed the PRD Plan was suitable for 
the neighborhood and the Town.   
 
At the conclusion of the Board’s substantive discussion of the PRD Plan, the Chair 
inquired as to how the Board should proceed with its recommendation to the Board of Appeals. 
The Town Planner noted that the PRD Plan was scheduled to be discussed at the next Board of 
Appeals meeting on September 12. The Town Planner suggested that the Board could 1) 
designate one or two members to review a recommendation letter that the Town Planner would 
draft, provide the Town Planner with feedback, and then the Town Planner would submit the 
Board’s formal recommendation to the Board of Appeals at its September 12 meeting; or 2) the 
Board could take a vote on whether to recommend the PRD Plan for approval, inform the Board 
of Appeals of the result of that vote, and then follow up with a formal written recommendation. 
The Board agreed to take the latter approach.  
 
The Chair then asked to get “a sense of the Board so that [the Town Planner] can write 
this up.” The Chair looked around the table, and the first member to speak, Burton Flint,
5 stated 
that he “would vote in favor of the proposal and make a recommendation to the Zoning Board of 
Appeals to approve the special permit request.” Mr. Flint further explained that “beyond the 
things already covered in [the Town Planner’s] report, I wouldn’t have any further 
requirements.” The Chair continued around the table, looking at the next Board member who 
stated that he would vote in favor. The following Board member raised her hand and said 
“favor,” and the last Board member nodded his head in agreement. Finally, the Chair stated 
“Okay, I think we’re unanimous on that then.”   
 
 
4 Video recordings of the Board’s meetings may be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL1TTzrWEKOOkSstQV0d4I-Kvy6M6RrC3p. 
5 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
  
The Town Planner attended the Board of Appeals’ September 12 meeting and informed 
the Board of Appeals that the Board had voted to recommend approval of the PRD Plan 
application, and that the Board would be reviewing its official recommendation letter at a future 
meeting. The Board reviewed the draft recommendation letter at its September 24 meeting, and 
voted to accept the letter subject to minor edits.  
 
On November 12, the Board approved the minutes for its September 10 meeting.6  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See 
OML 2013-64; OML 2017-104.7 By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should 
contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 
2012-106. Although minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a 
transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion 
presented. See OML 2012-29; OML 2019-136. 
 
The Complainant alleges that the September 10 meeting minutes omit comments made by 
the Chair and two other Board members that the PRD Plan would be preferable to a subdivision. 
Specifically, the Complainant alleges that the “Chair stressed several times[,] and [two] more 
members . . . agreed[,] that a hypothetical subdivision alternative would be worse [than the PRD 
Plan]. This reasoning was seminal to the Board’s decision to recommend [the] application to the 
Zoning Board of Appeals, yet is selectively excluded from [the] minutes . . ..” We find that the 
Board’s September 10 meeting minutes substantially comply with the requirement that they 
provide an accurate and sufficiently detailed summary of the discussion at issue. While we 
appreciate that the Complainant feels the statements not included are important, we find that the 
specific statements the Complainant points to are not required in order to understand the 
discussion that occurred.  
 
The Complainant further alleges that the September 10 meeting minutes omit that a vote 
was taken to recommend the PRD Plan to the Board of Appeals. The Board responds that the 
action taken was accurately reflected in its meeting minutes and that there was no vote because 
 
6 Although not raised in the complaint, we note that the Board did not timely approve its September 10 meeting 
minutes. The Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes be created and approved by the public body in a 
timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations provide that “timely 
manner” means within the next three public body meetings, or within 30 days, whichever is later. 940 C.M.R. 
29.11(2). However, we recommend that minutes be approved at the next meeting whenever possible. See OML 
2019-133; OML 2019-39; OML 2014-15. 
7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
  
no formal motion was made; instead, the Chair simply asked for a sense of how Board members 
would vote.   
 
The video recording of the September 10 meeting shows that the Board did not 
take a formal vote, but rather that each member confirmed their agreement that the Board 
should recommend approval of the PRD Plan. Although we find the September 10 
meeting minutes to generally accurately reflect what occurred with respect to the Board’s 
action regarding the PRD Plan, we find the statement that Mr. Flint’s vote to recommend 
the PRD Plan would be “subject to review of a draft recommendation letter . . .” to be 
inaccurate. This language may reflect the actual practice of the Board, but no member of 
the Board in fact stated that their approval would be subject to review of the Town 
Planner’s letter. Meeting minutes must accurately reflect the discussions held, and so we 
order the Board to amend the September 10 meeting minutes to accurately reflect the 
discussion.  
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
where its September 10 meeting minutes inaccurately state that a Board member’s 
recommendation was subject to review of a draft recommendation letter. We otherwise find the 
Board’s September 10 meeting minutes to be accurate. We order that within sixty (60) days of 
receipt of this letter the Board amend its September 10 meeting minutes as discussed above. We 
caution that similar future conduct may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Tanya Gailus (via e-mail: ) 
 Kristen Ferguson, Chair, Concord Planning Board (via e-mail: 
) 
 Elizabeth Hughes, Concord Town Planner (via e-mail:
 ehughes@concordma.gov)  
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
