===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 13, 2017 
OML 2017-173 
Katherine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan, dated October 20, alleging that 
the Ashland Town Forest Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
3OA, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on September 26, and 
the Committee responded to the original complaint by letter dated October 5. In his complaint, 
Mr. Morgan alleges that the Committee failed to make draft meeting minutes available within 10 
days of a request. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to respond to a request for open session meeting minutes within 10 days. However, we 
find that the Committee did not fail to make the minutes of its September 4 meeting available, as 
the minutes did not exist at the time of the request. In reaching this determination, we reviewed 
the original complaint, the Committee's response, and the request for further review filed with 
our office. We also reviewed an e-mail from the complainant to the Committee dated September 
6, and we reviewed a supplementary e-mail sent to our office by the Committee's legal counsel 
dated November 1. 
FACTS 
The Committee held a meeting on September 4 and subsequently created draft meeting 
minutes. A Committee member kept the draft minutes on her laptop computer. Sometime after 
the September 4 meeting, the hard drive of her computer malfunctioned. At this time, the 
Committee attempted to recover the data on the laptop. On September 6, the complainant made 
a request for the September 4 meeting minutes. On September 26, twenty days after the request, 
the Committee's legal counsel contacted the complainant to seek an extension of time to provide 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
the draft minutes. The complainant filed the present complaint with the Committee on this same 
date. After several attempts to recover the data on the malfunctioning laptop, it became clear 
that its data was lost permanently. On September 29, after the Committee member whose laptop 
had malfunctioned had recreated the draft minutes, a town employee contacted the complainant 
by e-mail informing him that the recreated draft minutes were then available on the town 
website. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to "create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meetings, 
including a record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The law also states that "[t]he minutes of 
an open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft form, shall be made available 
upon request by any person within 10 days." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c) (emphasis added). 
The complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
make the September 4 minutes available within ten days of the request. While the Committee 
failed to make the requested draft minutes available within ten days of the September 6 request, 
the draft minutes did not exist at the time of the request due to a computer malfunction. When 
the Committee recreated the minutes, the town provided them to the complainant. On these 
facts, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to make the 
requested minutes available within ten days. 
However, the Committee's response to the complainant's request came twenty days after 
the request. When open session minutes are requested, a public body must within ten days either 
make the requested minutes available or respond to the requestor that no minutes exist. See 
OML 2012-100.2 While we recognize that the delay was caused by the Committee's efforts to 
repair the laptop and recover the draft minutes, we nonetheless find that this failure to respond 
within the required time frame violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2015-173. 
CONCLUSION 
Based on the foregoing, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to respond to a request for meeting minutes within ten days. We order the Committee's 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future 
violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass. gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Stephen Morgan 
Ashland Town Forest Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 