===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
       August 3, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 123 
 
 
George A. Hall Jr., Esq. 
Anderson & Kreiger LLP 
50 Milk Street 
Boston, MA 02109 
 
By email only: ghall@andersonkreiger.com  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Hall: 
 
This office received a complaint from Brian Iler on July 10, 2023, alleging that the 
Belmont Middle and High School Building Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee 
on or about April 12, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, by letter 
dated April 29, following an extension of time granted by this office.  The complaint alleges that 
the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by distributing meeting materials to Committee 
members prior to an April 13 meeting and not simultaneously posting such materials to the 
municipal website.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
in the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review, and the notice and minutes of the Committee meeting held on April 13.   
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-
(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2023. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.”  G.L. c 30A, § 18.  The Law defines “deliberation” 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, 
however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling 
information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or 
documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (emphasis added).  For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a 
quorum is “a simple majority of the members of the public body.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  
 
The Open Meeting Law further requires that public bodies post notice 48 hours in 
advance of a meeting and include a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Public bodies are required to list topics in a 
meeting notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  The Open Meeting Law does not require that a 
public body attach supporting documents to a meeting notice or that it publicly post a “meeting 
packet” that contains such documents.  See OML 2022-24; OML 2022-19; OML 2021-181.
2   
 
On April 10, the Committee posted notice of a meeting to be held on April 13.  On April 
11, Bill Lovallo, Chair of the Commission, emailed documents to be reviewed and discussed 
during the April 13 meeting to all Committee members.  The documents consisted of draft 
meeting minutes, change order requests, an updated summary of project costs, and a project 
update from the General Contractor, which included a list of recently performed work, a list of 
scheduled work, and progress photos. 
  
The April 13 was held as planned.  At the beginning of the meeting, Chair Lovallo 
announced that “meeting materials were sent out this week and those materials will be posted on 
the [Commission] website, shortly after the meeting.”  During the meeting, the Commission 
approved two sets of meeting minutes, and received updates from the contractor and architect   
on the construction of the new high and middle school, including changes to certain orders and 
cost revisions. 
 
There is no requirement in the Open Meeting Law that a public body affirmatively 
provide
 copies of documents to persons in attendance at a meeting or that a public body include 
and post with a notice the documents it plans to discuss during a meeting.  See OML 2022-24. 
We encourage public bodies, whenever feasible, to provide meeting attendees with copies of all 
documents it intends to discuss.  Particularly where viewing such documents would be helpful to 
following the conversation during the meeting, providing copies of documents that the Board 
intends to discuss promotes transparency and public access to government deliberations.  See 
OML 2016-94.  In addition, we remind public bodies that minutes of an open session, if they 
exist and whether approved or in draft form, must be made available upon request by any person 
within 10 days.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  Moreover, the Public Records Law requires a public 
body to permit inspection or provide a copy of any public record, such as documents used during 
a meeting, within 10 business days of a request.  See G.L. c. 66, § 10.  We note here that the 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
relevant documents related to the school construction project discussed during the April 13 
meeting are posted to the municipal website.3 
 
Finally, after reviewing the documents that were sent to and shared with Committee 
membe
rs, we find that the documents were prepared by either staff or outside consultants, who 
are not members of the Committee, and did not otherwise contain any Committee member’s 
opinions.  Thus, the Chair’s April 11 email fits within the narrow exemption to the definition of 
deliberation and was simply the distribution of reports or documents for the purpose of 
discussion during the April 13 meeting.  See OML 2016-172. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Brian Iler – By email only:  
Belmont Middle and High School Building Committee – By email only: BHS-
BC@belmont-ma.gov  
 Belmont Town C lerk – By email only: ecushman@belmont-ma.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
3 The documents discussed during the April 13 meeting can be found at https://www.belmont -
ma.gov/documents/presentation-materials. 
