===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 16, 2024 
 
OML 2024 – 130  
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Christopher Kelleher 
Chair 
Brookfield Conservation Commission 
6 Central Street 
Brookfield, MA 01506 
 
ckelleher@brookfieldma.us 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Mr. Kelleher: 
 
This office received two complaints from Dave Holdcraft, a/k/a John Holdcraft, on April 
22, 2024, alleging that the Brookfield Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaints were originally filed with the 
Commission on February 26 (the “February 26 Complaint”) and February 28 (the “February 28 
Complaint”).
1  The Commission responded by letters dated March 5 and March 29, respectively.  
The February 26 Complaint alleges that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law at its 
meeting held on January 25, when the chair secured other members’ permission to respond to a 
pending Open Meeting Law complaint without discussing the merits of the complaint in open 
session.  The February 26 Complaint also alleges that the notice of the January 25 meeting was 
insufficiently specific.  The February 28 Complaint alleges that the Commission violated the 
Open Meeting Law at its meeting held on February 15.  Specifically, the complainant alleges that 
the notice posted in the newspaper listed the incorrect meeting location, that the meeting location 
was not ADA compliant, that he was improperly removed from the meeting, and that the 
Commission engaged in deliberation after the February 15 meeting was adjourned. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it held its February 15 meeting at a location that was not accessible.  We find that the 
Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged in the February 28 
Complaint.  We decline to review the February 26 Complaint.  In reaching this determination, we 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2024. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
reviewed the original complaints, the Commission’s responses to the complaints, and the 
complainant’s requests for further review.  We also viewed recordings of the January 25 meeting 
and the February 15 meeting
2 and reviewed the notice of the February 15 meeting.  We 
communicated by email with Commission chair Christopher Kelleher,3 and Library Director 
Brenda Metterville.  We spoke by telephone with the complainant, Dave Holdcraft. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  Notice of the February 15 meeting was posted to the Town 
of Brookfield’s site on mytowngovernment.org, the official posting location of the Town of 
Brookfield.  The notice listed the location as “Library Annex, 18 Common Street, Brookfield 
MA 01506.”  The Library Annex is located next to the main Library building, in what was a 
private residence.  The main meeting room can be accessed via a door from the front porch.  
Steps lead to the front porch.  Toward the rear of the property, a ramp or cement slab (without a 
handrail) leads to an overhead door into what was a barn when the property was a residence.  
The Library Annex is not compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”).
4 
 
The Commission meeting went forward in the main meeting room of the Library Annex.  
The complainant entered the building unassisted via the front porch door.  He is able to ambulate 
without the aid of a wheelchair, crutches or any other device.  After the Chair
 introduced the first 
substantive topic of discussion, a Request for Determination of Applicability (“RDA”), the 
complainant interrupted with a “point of order.”  He stated that the building “is not ADA” and 
that the Commission was “in violation”
5 by going forward with the meeting.  The Chair 
responded that he spoke with “Brenda”6 at the Library, that the barn is open and that there is an 
access ramp, so anyone in a wheelchair can access the meeting.  The Chair then returned to the 
discussion of the RDA but was interrupted again by the complainant.  The Chair told him “you 
don’t have the floor” and that this was his first warning.  Shortly thereafter, as the Commission 
reviewed RDA documents, the following exchange occurred: 
 
Complainant:  Mr. Chairman, may I ask you a question? 
Chair:  Not at this time, Mr. Holdcraft. 
Complainant:  OK.  Was this published in the paper? 
Chair:  Mr. Holdcraft, I’ve given you a clear warning.  This is going to be your 
second clear warning.  If you keep interrupting our meeting, you are going 
to be asked to leave. 
 
The complainant then rose from his seat, approached the Chair and attempted to hand 
him papers.  The recording of the meeting captures the Chair and complainant talking over one 
another so it is difficult to discern everything that was said.  The complainant again alleged a 
 
2 Recordings of these meetings are available online at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=93PDN6Xi2k0 and 
https://youtu.be/5Lo4LfzBD8Y, respectively. 
3 For the sake of clarity, you are referenced hereinafter in the third person as “the Chair.”  
4 The Chair and Library Director have provided us with different accounts of the communications they had prior to 
the February 15 meeting regarding the Library Annex’s compliance with the ADA.  We need not resolve these 
factual discrepancies as the Board has not argued that the Library Annex was compliant.   
5 He did not specify what the Commission was in violation of. 
6 Library Director Brenda Metterville 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
violation and the Chair told the complainant to leave the meeting.  A police officer then escorted 
the complainant out of the room. 
 
After the meeting adjourned, one or two members of the public asked questions about 
what constitutes a quorum of the Commission.  There was a brief exchange about how to 
calculate a quorum.
7  Based upon the recording of the meeting, it is unclear whether members of 
the Commission participated in this conversation.  After the members of the public left the 
meeting, and a quorum remained in the room, the Commission’s most recently appointed 
member, William Meeker, asked a procedural question.  The Chair declined to answer the 
question out of concern that to do so in the presence of a quorum would violate the Open 
Meeting Law. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We decline to review the February 26 Complaint. 
 
On February 17, the complainant sent an email to the Chair stating “Christopher, John 
Davi
d Holdcraft here.  Officially inform8ng [sic] you that I am filing a new OMV on you.”  
Attached to the email was a photograph of the second page of the February 26 Complaint.  The 
Commission did not receive a full copy of the Complaint until February 26.  Pursuant to the 
Open Meeting Law, a complaint must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the alleged 
violation.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b).  If the alleged violation could not have been known at the time it 
occurred, then the complaint must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the date on 
which the alleged violation could reasonably have been discovered.  940 CMR 29.05(4).  
Complaints alleging violations that take place during an open session can reasonably be 
discovered at the time they occur.  See OML Declination 11-27-2023 (Wellfleet Selectboard); 
OML 2022-128; OML 2012-52.8  A complaint is considered filed when it is received by the 
public body named in the complaint.  See OML 2017-26; OML Declination 8-10-2016 (Mendon 
Board of Selectmen) OML Declination 4-3-15 (Littleton Planning Board).  Moreover, the Open 
Meeting Law regulations require that “[a]ll complaints shall be in writing, using the form 
approved by the Attorney General and available on the Attorney General’s website.”  940 CMR 
29.05(1).  See also OML Declination 5-24-2024 (West Bridgewater Board of Selectmen); OML 
Declination 4-12-2024 (Dedham School Committee); OML Declination 3-12-2012 (Cohasset 
Board of Selectmen).  Because the full complaint was not served with the Commission until 
February 26, 32 days after the alleged violation, it is untimely and we decline to review it. 
 
II. The n
 otice identified the place of the February 15 meeting in compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law.  
 
Pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, notice of a meeting “shall be printed in a legible, 
easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time and place of the meeting and a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 
 
7 For guidance on the calculation of a quorum, see Frequently Asked Questions, available on our website: 
https://www.mass.gov/info-deta ils/frequently-asked-questions-about-the-open-meeting-law#frequently-asked-
questions-about-calculation-of-quorum-and-majority-  
8 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
30A, §20(a).  Here, the complainant does not dispute that the notice posted on the town website, 
the official posting location, correctly listed the place of the meeting.  However, he alleges that 
the “legal notice for the public hearing said the location of the meeting would be at the police 
station conference room.”  This “legal notice” was published in a local newspaper, pursuant to 
the Wetlands Protection Act, and concerned the RDA to be discussed at the February 15 
meeting.   
 
The Commission acknowledges that the legal notice of the RDA incorrectly stated that 
the m
eeting was to be held at the police station conference room.  However, notice of the RDA 
hearing is governed by the Massachusetts Wetlands Protection Act, not by the Open Meeting 
Law.  The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law.  We offer no opinion on whether any actions taken by the Commission could be a violation 
of any other law or regulation pertaining to public hearings, including the Wetlands Protection 
Act.  See OML 2014-31; OML Declination 10-30-20 (Billerica Zoning Board of Appeals); OML 
Declination 6-25-18 (Rowley Planning Commission).  Because notice of the February 15 
meeting, as posted 48 hours in advance of the meeting at the Town’s official posting location, 
complied with the Open Meeting Law, we find no violation relative to notice.9 
 
III. The February 15 meeting was not accessible, in violation of the Open Meeting 
Law. 
 
At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement that meetings of public bodies be 
open and a
ccessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except when meeting in executive 
session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”).  Generally, access to a 
meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present as well as to see and hear what is 
being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2020-100; OML 2018-75; OML 
2016-54.  Public bodies must hold public meetings in a location with accessible parking, access 
to the building, and access to the meeting room.  See OML 2019-90.  For a meeting to be truly 
“open to the public,” it must be held at a location that is accessible to persons with disabilities.  
See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); see also OML 2023-43; OML 2020-47; OML 2015-38; OML 2012-49 
(stating that meetings of public bodies must be held in locations that are compliant with the 
ADA). 
 
The Commission and Library Director Brenda Metterville have stated that the barn door 
was
 open during the entirety of the February 15 meeting.  The complainant, who has described 
the door as an overhead garage door, maintains that it was closed.  We need not resolve that 
factual dispute because in communication with our office, the Library Director and Board of 
Trustees have stated that the Library Annex does not comply with the ADA, regardless of 
whether the door was open.  The Commission has not argued that the building complies with the 
ADA.  To the contrary, it seems to implicitly recognize the building’s deficiency, noting that 
“this was the first time we met at the Library Annex, and we were not aware of the building's 
status. The good news is that no person in a wheelchair was denied access to the meeting.”  
 
9 Although not relevant to our enforcement of the Open Meeting Law, we note that the Commission re -noticed the 
RDA and discussed it at a later meeting.  Additionally, the Commission has implemented a new policy, requiring 
that the chair review and approve all legal notices placed in the newspaper. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Because the Library Annex was not compliant with the ADA, the Commission violated the Open 
Meeting Law when it held its February 15 meeting there.  
 
IV. The Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it removed the 
complainant from the February 15 meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow public participation 
during its meetings, but rather provides that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public 
body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.”  
G.L. c. 30A § 20(g).  The Law further provides: “No person shall disrupt the proceedings of a 
meeting of a public body. If, after clear warning from the chair, a person continues to disrupt the 
proceedings, the chair may order the person to withdraw from the meeting and if the person does 
not withdraw, the chair may authorize a constable or other officer to remove the person from the 
meeting.” Id.  See also OML 2017-73.  Removal of an individual from a public meeting should 
be used only as a last resort when a person continues to disrupt a meeting despite directives to 
the contrary or in cases of violent, threatening, or abusive behavior.  See OML 2024-7; OML 
2018-77; OML 2013-135.   
 
The complainant alleges that because he was removed from the February 15 meeting, he 
was unable to participate in any discussion of his previously filed Open Meeting Law complaint.  
First, as noted above, the Commission had no obligation to allow public participation in the 
meeting.  Second, under the circumstances, we find that the Chair acted within his discretion 
when he had the complainant removed from the meeting.  The complainant interrupted the 
meeting on multiple occasions within the first minutes of the meeting.  Undeterred by two 
warnings from the Chair, the complainant approached the Chair and presented him with papers, 
again disrupting the Commission’s deliberations.  The complainant’s persistent interruptions 
hampered the Commission’s ability to do its work.  After answering the complainant’s first 
question regarding accessibility, the Chair warned him twice to stop interrupting the meeting.  
The complainant chose to ignore those warnings, going so far as to approach the Chair at the 
Commission’s table.  Under the circumstances, the Chair had the discretion to ask the 
complainant to leave the meeting, and then seek assistance of an officer when the complainant 
did not immediately leave.  We find no violation on this point.     
 
V. The Commission did not deliberate outside of a posted meeting after the February 
15 meeting adjourned. 
 
The Open Meeting Law states, in relevant part, that “[e]xcept in an emergency, . . . a 
public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Except when convened in 
executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.” G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(a).  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Open Meeting Law defines 
“deliberation” broadly as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction; . . . .”  Id. 
 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
Without further detail, the complainant alleges that the Commission “continued to 
conduct business as a quorum after the meeting was adjourned.”  The recording of the February 
15 meeting, provided by the complainant, shows that there was a discussion regarding how to 
calculate a quorum after the meeting adjourned, while there remained a quorum and at least two 
members of the public.  Because we are unable to determine, based on the available evidence, 
whether commissioners participated in this brief exchange, we find no violation.10   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law when it held its February 15 meeting at a location that was not accessible.  We find that the 
Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged in the February 28 
Complaint.  We order the Commission’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law and caution that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future 
may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  Where there is no 
dispute that the complainant was able to access the meeting, and there is no allegation that any 
other individual was denied access because of the accessibility issue, we order no further 
remedial action. 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
  
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Dave Holdcraft (via email: ) 
Brookfield Town Clerk (via email: mseery@brookfieldma.us) 
 
This
 determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
10 We do not decide whether calculation of a quorum, a matter that is not subject to the discretion of the public body 
and generally is not unique to a particular public body, constitutes “business” within the Commission’s 
“jurisdiction.” 
