===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 18, 2014 
OML 2014-100 
David J. Rushford 
City Clerk 
City Hall, Room 206 
455 Main St. 
Worcester, MA 01608 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Clerk Rushford: 
This office received an Open Meeting Law complaint from Councilor Michael Gaffney, 
dated May 22, alleging that the Worcester City Council (the "Council") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Council 
discussed and voted on an item during its March 11 meeting that was not listed in the meeting 
notice but was reasonably anticipated by the Chair more than 48 hours before the meeting. Lhe 
complaint was filed with the Council on or about March 25, The Council responded by letter 
dated April 11. 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the March 25 complaint filed with the Council; the 
Council's April 11 response; and the May 22 complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we 
reviewed the notice for and minutes of the Council's March 11 meeting, and the video recordings 
of the Council's March 4 and March 11 meetings. Finally, we interviewed Mayor Joseph Petty 
by telephone on July 1. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. During the Council's February 25 meeting, it considered 
the topic, "Recommend Adoption of an Order to Authorize the Filing of Special Legislation that 
' Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
2 Available at: http://www.worcestenna.gov/development/cable-services/video-archive/citv-council-online-
video?fieid 1=2014. 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
would Change the Board of Health from Advisory to Regulatory." The Council decided during 
the meeting to refer the order to its Standing Committee on Public Health and Human Services 
(the "Committee"). 
During the Council's next meeting on March 4, the Council discussed the timing for the 
next Committee meeting, which was then scheduled for March 6 at 3:00 PM. Councilor Gaffney 
had requested that the meeting be rescheduled, and several emails between him and Committee 
Chair Sarai Rivera followed, on which City Council Chair, and Worcester Mayor, Joseph Petty 
was copied. The City Manager explained that the proposed Board of Health order should be 
considered by the Council without delay so that it might be acted on by the Legislature in 2014. 
The Council did not discuss when the order might next come before the Council. 
The Committee met on March 6 at 3:00 PM. At that meeting, the Committee approved 
the proposed Board of Health order and recommended that it be presented to the full Council for 
final approval. Two Council Rules then came into play. Council Rule 37 requires the City Clerk 
to prepare a calendar of all matters to come before the Council. Council Rule 26 requires the 
Council to alternate the agenda for its weekly meetings between "City Council Agendas" and 
"City Manager Agendas." During a meeting designated as a "City Manager Agenda," the 
Council considers topics prepared by the City Manager for transmittal to the City Council. See 
Council Rule 26. During a meeting designated as a "City Council Agenda," the Council 
considers motions, orders, and resolutions filed by individual Councilors. Id. During the March 
6 Committee meeting. Councilor Rivera asked the City Clerk to have the proposed Board of 
Health order included in the notice for the next Council meeting, on March 11. The City Clerk 
explained that he could not add the proposed order to the notice because the meeting was a City 
Manager Agenda and not a City Council Agenda. If Councilor Rivera wanted the Council to 
consider the proposed order at that meeting, therefore, she would have to request a "suspension 
of the rules." The City Clerk therefore asked if Councilor Rivera would like him to prepare the 
proposed order for the meeting so that it would be available for councilors to review if she did 
bring it up in this way. Councilor Rivera replied affirmatively. 
The notice for the Council's March 11 meeting, which was prepared by the City Clerk 
and City Manager without input from the Mayor, did not include a topic regarding the proposed 
Board of Health order. Sometime during the day of March 11, Mayor Petty learned for the first 
time that a councilor would be introducing the proposed Board of Health order during the 
meeting that evening. Mayor Petty presumed, incorrectly, that the order had been included on 
the agenda and meeting notice. 
The Council met on March 11. Under the New Business portion of the meeting. 
Councilor Rivera requested under suspension of the rules that the Council adopt the Report of 
the Committee favoring adoption of an order to authorize the filing of special legislation to 
change the Board of Health from advisory to regulatory. Mayor Petty remarked that he 
mistakenly thought the topic had been on the agenda. Following discussion, the Council 
accepted and adopted the report by a vote of eight to two. 
3 Although Mayor Petty received these emails, he did not participate in the discussion. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION 
Except in an emergency, a public body must post notice of every meeting "at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays," and must include 
a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 
3OA, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 
29.03(1 )(b). We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable 
member of the public could read the topic and understand what the nature of the public body's 
discussion will be. See OML 2013-39; OML 2011-7.4 
This issue here is whether Mayor Petty, as the Chair of the Council, reasonably 
anticipated more than 48 hours in advance of the Council's March 11 meeting that the Council 
would discuss the proposed Board of Health order. Mayor Petty was included in emails about 
the scheduling of the March 6 Committee meeting to consider a report on the order and clearly 
knew that the Committee would be considering it. However, it is not clear that he knew or 
should have known that the order would be coming before the Council on March 11, The order 
was reported favorably by the Committee on Thursday, March 6. Mayor Petty did not learn until 
March 11 that Councilor Rivera would request that the Council take action that night. Although 
Mayor Petty was aware of the ongoing discussion regarding the proposed Board of Health order, 
we do not find sufficient evidence that he knew at least 48 hours before the March 11 Council 
meeting that the order would be introduced during the meeting. Therefore, we find that the 
Mayor did not reasonably anticipate that the Council would discuss this order at its March 11 
meeting. 
We note, however, that if the chair of a public body delegates responsibility for creating 
the agenda to another, that person acts as the chair's agent. See OML 2014-38; OML 2013-147; 
OML 2012-32. Here, the City Clerk, acting by Council Rule as the Mayor's agent, did 
reasonably anticipate the proposed order more the 48 hours before the Council's March 11 
meeting. However, the Council Rules also prevented him from adding the proposed order to the 
agenda for the March 11 meeting because it was City Manager's Agenda, meaning that the 
agenda did not include Council orders. Although the City Clerk knew it was possible that 
Councilor Rivera would bring the issue up under suspension of the rules, he specifically declined 
to put the topic on the agenda. Where the chair of a public body, or his agent, declines to add a 
topic to the meeting notice, it is not a violation of the Open Meeting Law when someone else 
introduces that topic at a meeting.5 See OML 2013-197. Nevertheless, while we do not find a 
violation in this instance, the conflict between the Council Rules and the Open Meeting Law 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 We caution that it would violate the Open Meeting Law for a chair or his or her agent to deliberately decline to 
include a topic in a meeting notice to avoid noticing the topic, while asking another member of the public body to 
introduce the topic during the meeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
concerns us. We encourage the Council to consider amending its rules to avoid this type of 
conflict in the future. 
Finally, while it is not unlawful for a public body to discuss an unnoticed and 
unanticipated topic, the Attorney General strongly encourages public bodies to postpone 
discussion of topics that do not require immediate action and that were not listed in a notice at 
least 48 hours before a meeting, particularly if those topics are ones that may be of significant 
public interest. See OML 2013-87; OML 2013-13; OML 2012-3. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider this matter closed. Please contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
cc: Worcester City Council 
David Moore, City Solicitor 
Councilor Michael Gaffney 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 