===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
December 31,2019
OML 2019-168
Kathleen Czub
Secretary, Warren Planning Board
P.O. Box 609
Warren, MA 01083-0609
Joyce Eichacker
Chair, Warren Solar Advisory Committee 
48 High Street 
P.O. Box 603 
Warren, MA 01083
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Ms. Czub and Ms. Eichacker:
This office received three complaints from Peter Krawczyk on July 12, 2019, alleging 
that the Warren Planning Board (the “Board”) and Warren Solar Advisory Committee (the 
“Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were 
originally filed with the Board and Committee on or about May 15 and 16, 2019. After being 
granted an extension of time by our office, the Board responded by letter dated June 4, 2019. The 
Committee responded by letter dated May 22, 2019. The Complaints allege that 1) the Board’s 
notice for its April 17, 2019, meeting was insufficiently detailed; and 2) the Board and 
Committee should have posted notice for a joint meeting held on April 17, 2019.1
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged. 
Furthermore, we find that the Committee is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law,
1 The Complainant also alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when the version of the bylaw that 
was presented to Town Meeting for a vote was different from the version the Board approved. Even if true, this 
assertion would not amount to a violation of the Open Meeting Law by the Board, and we decline to review it. See 
OML 2019-113; OML Declination 6-25-18 (Rowley Planning Commission). Additionally, we decline to address 
several other allegations which fall outside of the purview of the Open Meeting Law.

===PAGE 2===
and, therefore, did not violate the Law as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed 
the original complaints, the Board’s response, the Committee’s response, the request for further 
review, a video recording of the April 17 meeting,2 the Board’s notice and minutes for the April 
17 meeting,3 the minutes of the Board’s May 14 meeting, and additional documents provided by 
the Complainant. We also communicated with Kathleen Czub, Secretary of the Warren Planning 
Board by email and by phone and with Joyce Eichacker, Chair of the Warren Solar Advisory 
Committee,4 by phone.
FACTS
We find the facts to be as follows. The official notice posting location for the Town of 
Warren is the bulletin board attached to the outside of the building in which the Clerk’s office is 
located. On March 28,5 the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on April 17 at 6:15 pm. 
The notice included one substantive topic, “6:15pm-Public Hearing on proposed Zoning 
Amendment for Annual Town Meeting. Section 12 Solar Energy.” The Board’s meeting notice 
did not indicate that the meeting would be a joint meeting with the Committee, and the 
Committee did not post its own notice for the April 17 meeting.
The Board is a five-member public body; thus, three members constitutes a quorum. The 
Committee was established when the Board of Selectmen appointed Ms. Eichacker chair and 
asked her to organize a group to research issues and gather information related to solar energy 
projects. Thereafter, Ms. Eichacker invited each department in the Town whose work she 
believed might touch upon solar projects to participate in the Committee’s work. Although 
. certain individuals from the various departments, as well as members of the public, attended the 
Committee’s meetings regularly, there was no set number of members and no quorum 
requirement. The number of participants and makeup of the Committee changed from meeting to 
meeting, and anyone who attended a meeting was invited to actively participate in the work of 
the Committee, including drafting a proposed solar bylaw.
Throughout the research and drafting process, the Committee submitted its findings to , 
both the Board and the Board of Selectmen. Additionally, the Committee was directed by the 
Board, the Board of Selectmen, and other public bodies within the Town throughout the process. 
Eventually, the Committee presented its draft solar bylaw to the Board. The Board then invited 
the Committee to attend its April 17 meeting to present the bylaw and answer questions from the 
public. Ultimately, the Board voted to accept the proposed bylaw and it was sent to Town 
Meeting where it was voted on by the community and passed.
2 The video recording may be found at https://www. youtube.com/watch?reload=9&v=460xAWKMST4.
3 Though not raised in the complaint, we independently note that the minutes for the April 17 meeting are 
insufficient in that they do not include the location of the meeting or a sufficiently detailed summary of the 
discussions held. See G.L. c. 30A, 22(a). Minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the 
public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See 
OML 2012-106. While minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, 
and the minutes do not need to include every remark made or opinion presented. See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. 
We recommend that the Board revise its April 17 meeting minutes to come into compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law.-
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you both in the third person.
5 All dates are in 2019.

===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION
L The Board’s April 17 Meeting Notice Was Sufficiently Detailed.
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice 
with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic sufficiently detailed when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35.6 The Open Meeting Law does not require a 
public body to anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion, only that it 
identify the discussion topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 
2017-186; OML 2014-127; OML 2014-58.
The Complainant argues that the notice topic “6:15pm-Public Hearing on proposed 
Zoning Amendment for Annual Town Meeting. Section 12 Solar Energy” was insufficiently 
detailed because it did not identify specific changes that were proposed by the new solar bylaw. 
We disagree. The Open Meeting Law does not require that a notice identify the specific proposed 
changes to a bylaw. See OML 2016-115 (public body not required to include a description of the 
proposed bylaw changes); OML 2018-57 (“The Board need not list each and every detail about a 
topic in order to comply with the law's requirements.”). Here, the Board anticipated discussing a 
proposed bylaw that would replace Section 12 of the Town’s Zoning By-law in its entirety. The 
inclusion of the detail “Section 12 Solar Energy” on the notice provided sufficient detail to allow 
a reasonable member of the public to understand the nature of the anticipated discussion, namely, 
a proposed bylaw pertaining to solar energy. Therefore, we find that the notice for the Board’s 
April 17 meeting was sufficiently detailed and did not violate the Open Meeting Law.
2. The Committee Is Not a Public Body Subject To the Open Meeting Law.
The Open Meeting Law defines a “public body,” in relevant part, as “a multiple member 
board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or 
within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18.
To determine whether a multiple-member entity is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, there are three factors we consider:
1. The entity must be “within” government and not excluded from the definition of 
“public body;”
2. The entity must be a “body” empowered to act collectively; and
3. The entity must serve a “public purpose.”
See OML 2017-118; OML 2016-102; OML 2012-20; OML 2011-42; OML 2010-1.
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found online at https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law.

===PAGE 4===
We assume without deciding that the Committee satisfies the first and third factors, as it 
is within government and serves a public purpose. See OML 2017-118; OML 2016-83; OML 
2010-1. However, we find that the Committee does not satisfy the second factor and is therefore 
not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law.
The Committee fails the second factor because it lacks a defined membership that is 
empowered to act collectively. See OML 2019-135; OML 2015-162; OML 2015-46; OML 
2012-20. Although Ms. Eichacker invited various Town departments to provide input into the 
drafting of the proposed solar bylaw, no particular individuals were designated to serve on the 
Committee, and the Committee lacked a defined number of members and had no identifiable 
quorum. Additionally, any members of the public who chose to attend a meeting of the 
Committee could actively participate in the drafting of the solar bylaw. As such, the makeup of 
the Committee changed from meeting to meeting. The bylaw researching and drafting process 
was collaborative with Ms. Eichacker and those individuals who opted to join her for portions of 
the process working together to prepare a draft bylaw for the Board’s and Board of Selectmen’s 
consideration. In these regards, the Committee was akin to a focus group, which we have found 
are not public bodies subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2012-20; OML 2011-42. We 
therefore conclude that the Committee fails the second prong of our test for determining whether 
a multiple-member entity is a public body. See OML 2015-162.
Because the Committee fails one of the three factors that we consider when determining 
whether an entity is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, we find that the Committee 
is not a public body and is not subject to the Open Meeting Law. Therefore, the Committee did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law when some of the individuals who had been involved with the 
bylaw drafting process attended the April 17 Board meeting to present the proposed bylaw and to 
answer questions from the public.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons set forth above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. Furthermore, we find that the Committee is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting 
Law, and therefore did not violate the Law.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government

===PAGE 5===
cc: Peter Krawczyk
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
