===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 29, 2018 
OML 2018-125 
Michael J. Maccaro, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410 
Quincy, MA 02169 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Maccaro: 
This office received two complaints from George King on October 27 and December 20, 
alleging that the Nashoba Regional School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25,1 The complaints were originally filed with the Committee 
on September 1 and October 30, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letters dated 
September 19 and November 15.2 The first complaint alleges that the Committee's executive 
session minutes from its August 10, 2016, November 30, 2016, and December 7, 2016, meetings 
are not sufficiently detailed; and that the Committee failed to timely release executive session 
minutes from its January 18 and February 6 meetings. The second complaint alleges that the 
Committee entered into executive session for an improper purpose during its January 18 and 
February 6 meetings; and that the Committee's executive session minutes from its January 18 
meeting to do not contain a list of documents used by the Committee during that meeting. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. We decline to 
review the first complaint because we find it to be untimely, as discussed below. Following our 
review of the second complaint, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by convening in executive session on January 18 and February 6. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Committee's responses to the 
complaints with attached exhibits, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed the executive session minutes from the Committee's August 10, 2016, 
meeting; the open and executive session minutes from the Committee's November 30, 2016, 
December 7, 2016, January 18, and February 6 meetings; and the open session minutes from the 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 Attorney Ken-y Regan Jenness of Murphy, Hesse, Tooiney & Lehane responded to the September 1 complaint. 
However, it is our understanding that Attorney Maccaro is handling both complaints now. 
===PAGE 2===
Committee's January 4 meeting. Finally, we spoke with the complainant by telephone on May 
22, 2018, and with you by telephone on August 17, 2018. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Nashoba Regional School District ("District") includes 
the towns of Bolton, Lancaster, and Stow. In 2005, George King, the complainant, became the 
assistant superintendent for the District. In 2009, he added the interim principal duties at Hale 
Middle School in Stow. In April 2016, Mr. King became the full-time principal at Hale Middle 
School, while still retaining his assistant superintendent duties. During the summer of 2016, the 
Committee suspended the position of assistant superintendent, in an effort to reduce 
administrative costs. On or around August 5, 2016, Mr. King filed a Demand for Arbitration 
requesting that he be reinstated to the dual role of Assistant Superintendent and Hale Middle 
School Principal. 
On August 10, 2016, the Committee met in executive session "to discuss strategy with 
respect to litigation (George P. King v. Nashoba Regional School District - Arbitration)." The 
Committee met for approximately one hour and thirty minutes and has publicly released the 
minutes of this executive session. Chair Lorraine Romasco shared with the Committee Mr. 
King's request to be reinstated as both Assistant Superintendent and Hale Middle School 
Principal, and advised the Committee that "the purpose of the meeting was to inform the School 
Committee of Mr. King's Demand for Arbitration and discuss litigation strategy with the 
Superintendent." 
On November 30, 2016, the Committee again met in executive session "to discuss 
strategy with respect to litigation (George P. King v. Nashoba Regional School District -
Arbitration)." The Committee met for approximately three hours and has publicly released the 
minutes of this executive session. Attorneys Nan O'Neill and Kerry Jenness of Murphy, Hesse, 
Toomey and Lehane updated the Committee on Mr. King's Arbitration Demand and advised that 
Mr. King wished to terminate his employment contract. The Committee discussed whether it 
wished to negotiate such termination and unanimously voted to direct Attorneys O'Neill and 
Jenness to respond to Mr. King's proposal and enter into negotiations "for termination of 
contract and employment and towards a settlement agreement." The minutes include specific 
terms of settlement that the Committee was willing to offer Mr. King. 
On December 7, 2016, the Committee met in executive session "to discuss strategy with 
respect to imminently threatened litigation." The Committee met for approximately three hours 
and forty minutes and has publicly released the minutes of this executive session. The 
Committee reviewed Mr. King's allegations over the past year and discussed the financial impact 
on the school district. The Committee then approved specific terms of settlement it would offer 
Mr. King. 
Mr. King signed a separation agreement on December 10, 2016, and the Committee 
signed it on December 13, 2016. Mr. King's last day of work with the District was December 
14, 2016, at which time he was placed on paid administrative leave until his official resignation 
2 
===PAGE 3===
date of June 30. As part of the agreement, Mr. King agreed not to speak on behalf of the District 
and to forward any questions regarding the District to the Superintendent. 
During a January 4 meeting, the Committee was presented for the first time with the 
results of a forensic audit that was conducted for the District. The Committee learned that 
certain loans and leases may have been entered into illegally and expressed "grave concerns" 
with the District's past accounting practices. 
On January 18, the Committee met in executive session "to discuss strategy with respect 
to potential litigation." The Committee met for approximately one hour and has publicly 
released the minutes of this executive session. The Committee discussed a letter it had received 
from Mr. King concerning the validity of a forensic audit, and conferred with legal counsel 
regarding its options to address questionable past accounting practices. The Committee also 
reviewed the executive session minutes from its August 10, 2016, November 30, 2016, and 
December 7, 2016 meetings. When the Committee reconvened in open session, it unanimously 
approved the release of those executive session minutes. 
On February 6, the Committee met in executive session "to discuss litigation strategy . . . 
[Arbitration George P. King v. Nashoba Regional School District]." The Committee met for 
forty-five minutes and has publicly released the minutes of this executive session. Legal counsel 
reminded the Committee of the rules pertaining to executive session with respect to posting 
notice, creating minutes, and remedies available to the Attorney General's office should the 
Committee be found in violation of the Open Meeting Law. The Committee then discussed a 
cease and desist letter that the Superintendent had sent to Mr. King regarding comments Mr. 
King made about the District on his blog. 
On May 22, Mr. King requested numerous documents, including "all school committee 
and personnel subcommittee executive session minutes from December 1, 2015 to the present 
day" from the Records Access Officer of the District. Responsive executive session minutes 
were provided to Mr. King on August 2, including the minutes from Committee meetings held 
on August 10, 2016, November 30, 2016, and December 7, 2016. However, the Committee did 
not release executive session minutes from its January 18 and February 5 meetings, because it 
claimed that the purpose for the executive session had not yet expired. By letter dated 
September 6, in response to Mr. King's public records request, the Committee stated that it 
would review the January 18 and February 6 executive session minutes at its next meeting on 
September 27, and that if the Committee determined that the purpose for the executive session 
had expired, the "minutes will be sent to [Mr. King] promptly." In its September 19 response 
letter to the first Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee again indicated that if it finds, 
during its September 27 meeting, that the purpose for the January 18 and February 6 executive 
sessions has expired, "the minutes will be sent to Mr. King." 
The Committee met on September 27 and voted to release the executive session minutes 
from its January 18 and February 6 meetings. These minutes were provided to Mr. King on 
October 2. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
DISCUSSION 
I, We Find the First Complaint to be Untimely but the Second Complaint to be 
Timely Filed. 
The first complaint alleges that the minutes from the Committee's August 10, 2016, 
November 30, 2016, and December 7, 2016, executiye session meetings failed to include an 
accurate summary of the discussions that occurred. During an open session meeting on January 
18, the Committee voted to release the August, November and December executive session 
minutes. Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public 
body within 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged violation could 
not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed within 
30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered. 940 CMR 29.05(3). When an 
alleged violation occurs during an open meeting, the alleged violation is reasonably discoverable 
at the time it occurs. See OML 2014-85; OML 2012-52.3 Because the minutes were approved 
for release during an open session meeting, any complaint concerning the sufficiency of the 
minutes should have been filed with the Committee within 30 days, or by February 17. G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(b). Here, the complaint was filed with the Board on September 1, almost seven 
months later. Thus, we find that the complaint is untimely and we decline to review it. See 
OML Declination 8-5-15 (Cape Light Compact); OML Declination 3-11-15 (Fairhaven Board of 
Selectmen). 
However, we remind the Committee that the Open Meeting Law requires that a public 
body "create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting 
forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on 
each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and 
the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When 
reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial 
compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2013-64. By substantial compliance, we 
mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public 
who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what 
occurred. See OML 2012-106. 
The first complaint also alleges that the Committee failed to provide executive session 
minutes from the Committee's January 18 and February 6 meetings within the time frame 
required by the Open Meeting Law. Because any complaints alleging a failure to provide 
minutes in a timely manner must be filed within 40 days of the original request, we find that this 
allegation is also untimely where the complaint was filed four months after the request. See 
OML Declination 9-1-16 (Maynard Board of Selectmen) (a failure to provide open session 
minutes becomes discoverable 10 days from the date of request); OML Declination 3-18-13 
(Ashfield Board of Selectmen). Nevertheless, we remind the Committee that the minutes of any 
executive session may be withheld from disclosure in their entirety as long as publication may 
defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). Upon 
3 Open Meeting Law declinations and determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
request by any person to inspect or copy the minutes of an executive session or any portion 
thereof, the body must respond to the request within 10 days following receipt and release any 
such minutes where publication would not defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session; 
provided, however, that if the body has not performed a review, the public body must perform 
the review and release the non-exempt minutes, or any portion thereof, not later than the body's 
next meeting or 30 days, whichever first occurs. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). 
With respect to the second complaint, the Committee argues that it is untimely because 
the executive session minutes were released on September 28 but the complaint was not filed 
until October 30-33 days later. Here, the Committee voted to release the January 18 and 
February 6 executive session minutes during its September 27 executive session. Those minutes 
were then publicly available the next day but were not provided to Mr. King until October 2. 
Unlike the first complaint where the request was made seven months after the August, November 
and December minutes were released during an open session, the January and February minutes 
were not released until four months after the request was made, with specific assertions by the 
Committee that the minutes would be provided to Mr. King upon release. Because the minutes 
were not yet approved for release at the time of the request, and because the Committee twice 
advised Mr. King in writing that it would provide the minutes to him upon release but did not do 
so until several days later, we find this complaint, which was filed 28 days after receiving the 
minutes, to be timely filed. 
II. The Committee Entered Executive Session for a Proper Purpose on January 18 
and February 6. 
The second complaint challenges the propriety of the Committee's January 18 and 
February 6 executive session discussions. The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a 
public body be conducted in an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 
21(a). Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes, 
provided that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for the 
executive session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose 
for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); see also District 
Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) ("[a] precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only 
notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only 
way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper"). 
One permissible reason to convene in executive session is "to discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). When convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public 
body should identify the litigation matter to be discussed, if doing so will not compromise the 
lawful purpose for secrecy. See OML 2016-12; OML 2013-97. Although we generally defer to 
a public body's assessment of whether the inclusion of such information would compromise the 
purpose for the executive session, a public body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis 
for such a claim if challenged. See OML 2015-14. 
5 
===PAGE 6===
Mr. King argues that the Committee convened in executive session for an improper 
purpose on January 18 where it only discussed a letter it had received from him regarding the 
forensic audit. The Committee contends that the executive session was proper under Purpose 3 
because the discussion concerned whether to initiate legal action. According to Committee legal 
counsel, the Committee was very concerned with the results of the forensic audit and the 
potential legality of certain leases and loans that Mr. King had entered into on behalf of the 
school district. During the January 18 executive session, the Committee discussed with its legal 
counsel strategy with respect to initiating litigation against Mr. King for inappropriate 
accounting. The Committee further contends that announcing the specific topic of litigation 
prior to convening in executive session would have comprised the purpose for the executive 
session. We find that it was appropriate for the Committee to convene in executive session 
under Purpose 3 to discuss litigation strategy, and that publicly identifying the specific litigation 
it planned to discuss would have compromised the confidentiality of the executive session 
discussion. See OML 2018-5; OML 2014-141; OML 2011-47. 
We also find that the Committee's discussion of the cease and desist letter sent to Mr. 
King relative to his use of social media discussed during the February 6 meeting to be proper 
under Purpose 3. At the time of the February 6 meeting, the Committee was concerned with Mr. 
King's use of the phrase "Hale Principal" on his twitter account and "Nashoba" with respect to 
his email address and blog. The Committee discussed with its legal counsel whether Mr. King 
was in violation of the Separation Agreement and whether to initiate proceedings against him for 
breach of contract. We find that this discussion in executive session on February 6 pertained to a 
decision whether to pursue litigation, and the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
by meeting in executive session under Purpose 3.4 See OML 2017-178; OML 2013-23. 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the January 18 executive session minutes do not 
include a list of documents used by the Committee during the meeting. The Open Meeting Law 
requires that the minutes of a public body's meetings include a list of all documents and exhibits 
used by the public body during the meeting. G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(a); OML 2012-91. Documents 
and exhibits used at the meeting are part of the official record of the session. See G.L. c. 3 OA, § 
22(d). Although the executive session minutes reference a letter it received from Mr. King, the 
Committee states that the letter was not distributed at the meeting. Since no documents or 
exhibits were used by the Committee during the executive session, it did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to include a list of documents in the minutes. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by meeting in 
executive session on January 18 and February 6 to discuss strategy with respect to pursuing 
litigation. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
4 We note that Committee legal counsel also discussed "the rules pertaining to executive session" during its 
February 6 executive session. We remind the Committee that a public body's discussions with legal counsel do not 
automatically fall under Purpose 3 for holding an executive session. See OML 2015-14. However, it is not clear 
from the minutes how extensive this discussion was, or whether legal counsel was simply reminding the Committee 
of the law's requirements for executive sessions in relation to that particular executive session that we find was 
properly convened, and therefore we decline to find a violation here. 
6 
===PAGE 7===
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
]/ r [r} ^ 
KerryAmie Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: George King 
Nashoba Regional School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
7 