===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
August 22, 2019 
OML 2019-103
Ivria Glass Fried 
Miyares and Harrington, LLP 
40 Grove Street, Suite 190 
Wellesley, MA 02482
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Glass Fried:
This office received a complaint from Allison Jenkins on November 5, 2018, alleging 
that the Hamilton Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on October 3, and the Board 
responded by letter dated October 23. In her complaint, Ms. Jenkins alleges that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law when a quorum of the Board deliberated at a joint meeting of the 
Hamilton Finance Committee and the Hamilton Affordable Housing Trust. She further alleges 
that one of the Board members made a false statement.
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in one of the ways alleged but 
decline to review the second allegation as it is outside the scope of the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response, and the 
request for further review with our office.2 We also reviewed the meeting minutes, an audio 
recording from the Board’s September 5 meeting and the September 5 meeting notices of the 
Hamilton Finance Committee and the Affordable Housing Trust.3
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 In her request for further review, the complainant also alleges that a quorum of the Board improperly met in the 
parking lot after they left the meeting. We decline to review this allegation as it was not included in the original 
complaint to the Board and the Board has not had an opportunity to respond to it. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 
CMR 29.05(3).
3 Complainant, Allison Jenkins, provided our office with an audio recording of the meeting via email.

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. On September 5, Board members Shawn Farrell, Scott 
Maddem and Bill Olson, a quorum of the Board, attended a posted joint meeting of the Hamilton 
Finance Committee and the Affordable Housing Trust.4 Mr. Olson, who is also a board member 
of the Affordable Housing Trust, arrived one hour after the start of the meeting. The Board did 
not post a meeting notice or agenda for a meeting of the Board, but both the Finance Committee 
and the Affordable Housing Trust did post notice of a meeting of their bodies.
During the meeting, the Finance Committee and the Affordable Housing Trust discussed 
warrant articles for an upcoming Special Town Meeting scheduled for October 13. Mr. Farrell, 
Mr. Maddem, and Mr. Olson sat in the audience and spoke on various topics including the 
proposed funding of a development on Longmeadow Way; the need for an operating budget 
regarding the Patton Homestead Fund; and an update to reopen a warrant. They also provided 
insight regarding what would be discussed at the Board’s next meeting, and revealed that the 
Board may move to remove an article at its next meeting.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in limited circumstances, “all meetings of a 
public body shall be open to the public” and that deliberations occur only during the public 
body’s properly noticed meetings. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(a). The Open Meeting Law defines a 
“meeting” as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s 
jurisdiction.” The Open Meeting Law excludes from the definition of “meeting,” however, the 
“attendance by a quorum of a public body at a meeting of another public body that has complied 
with the notice requirements of the open meeting law, so long as the visiting members 
communicate only by open participation in the meetings on those matters under discussion by the 
host body and do not deliberate.” Id “Deliberation” is defined, in relevant part, as “an oral or 
written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a 
quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id Expression of an 
opinion on matters within a body’s jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is deliberation, even 
if no other public body member responds. See OML 2019-57; OML 2012-15; OML 2012-8; 
OML 2011-37. Finally, a “quorum” is defined as a simple majority of the members of the public 
body, unless otherwise provided. Id.
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board expressed opinions on matters within 
the Board’s jurisdiction at a joint meeting of two other public bodies for which the Board did not 
post notice. A quorum of one public body may be in the same place at the same time, including 
attending the meeting of another public body, provided they do not deliberate. See OML 2015- 
38. In considering whether members of a public body deliberated at another public body’s 
meeting, we look for indicia such as whether the public body members were seated with the 
general public and whether they participated by open participation to conclude that no improper 
deliberation occurred. See OML 2013-38; OML 2016-117. Here, although Board Members 
Farrell, Maddern and Olson sat in the audience and participated as part of an open discussion,
4 The Board is a five-member public body; thus three members constitute a quorum.
2

===PAGE 3===
they spoke as Board members on behalf of the Board, not as members of the general public. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2016-117. Furthermore, their comments were not limited to answering 
questions or providing information on matters the Board had already publicly discussed, but 
rather included statements regarding possible future Board action. We therefore find that the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating without posting notice during the 
September 5 meeting of the Hamilton Finance Committee and the Affordable Housing Trust.
The complaint further alleges that one of the Board members made a false statement at 
the September 5 meeting. Our office, however, does not review statements made during 
meetings to ensure they are factually true. See OML 2015-133; OML 2014-23. We therefore 
decline to review this allegation as it is not within the purview of the Open Meeting Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution 
that similar violations in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Kathryn Droumbakis
Special Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
cc: Allison  Jenkins
Hamilton Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(e). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3
