===PAGE 1===
     
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
March 14, 2013 
OML 2013 — 28 
Stephen Doucette, Esq. 
Doucette & LaRose, LLC 
Attorneys at Law 
251 Main Street 
Oxford, MA 01540 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Doucette, 
This office received two complaints from Julie Farrell, dated June 7, 2012 and July 26, 
2012, alleging that the Templeton Municipal Light and Water Plant,1  John Drisco11,2  Manager of 
the Templeton Municipal Light and Water Plant, and Dana Blais, Chair of the Board, violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. We consolidate these two complaints as their 
allegations are related. 
The June 7, 2012 complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about May 3, 2012, 
and the Board responded to the original complaint by letter dated May 22, 2012. In her 
complaint, Ms. Farrell alleges that John Driscoll and Dana Blais violated the Open Meeting Law 
by convening an improper executive session during the Board's May 1, 2012 meeting, and by 
failing to provide notice to Ms. Farrell 48 hours in advance of the meeting that the Board planned 
to convene an executive session to discuss her blog.3  Ms. Farrell requests that our office nullify 
any action taken during the executive session and order the Board to attend a training on the 
Open Meeting Law. 
We note that the Plant consists of two separate public bodies, the Water Commission and the Light Commission, 
which we will call the "Board" hereafter when referring to them collectively. 
2  Mr. Driscoll is an individual public employee who is not a member of a public body, thus he was not required to 
comply with the Open Meeting Law and could not have violated it. We therefore decline to review the allegations 
against him and only consider his actions to the extent they relate to the complaint against the Board. 
3  Ms. Farrell also alleges that the Board did not post notice of its meetings on the internet. Municipal public bodies 
are not required to post their notices on a website, however they may choose to do so, provided that the municipal 
clerk notifies our office of such alternative posting method. See  940 CMR 29.03(1)(c)-(2). We note that, as of the 
date of this determination, the Town of Templeton has not notified our office of the adoption of its website as an 
alternative posting method. 
===PAGE 2===
In resolving the June 7, 2012 complaint, we reviewed the May 3, 2012 complaint; the 
Board's May 22, 2012 response; 4  the June 7, 2012 complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review; and a June 26, 2012 letter to our office from the Board. We reviewed the agenda 
and meeting minutes from the open and executive sessions of the separate May 1, 2012 meetings 
of the Water Commission and the Light Commission, respectively. We also spoke by conference 
call with Chairman Blais, Mr. Driscoll and Attorney Doucette on December 6, 2012. 
The July 26, 2012 complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about June 26, 
2012, and the Board responded to the original complaint by letter dated June 28, 2012. In this 
complaint, Ms. Farrell alleges that the Board failed to cite a purpose for convening an executive 
session on the notice for its June 5, 2012 meeting and before convening the executive session. 
Ms. Farrell requests that our office order the Board to attend a training on the Open Meeting 
Law. 
In resolving the July 26, 2012 complaint, we reviewed the June 26, 2012 complaint; the 
Board's June 28, 2012 response; the July 26, 2012 complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review; and your August 16, 2012 letter to our office on behalf of the Board.5  We 
reviewed the notice and minutes from the June 5, 2012 open and executive sessions for both the 
Light Commission and the Water Commission, respectively. We also spoke by conference call 
with Chairman Blais, Mr. Driscoll and Attorney Doucette on December 6, 2012. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to follow required procedures for entering into executive session and by failing to include 
sufficient detail about anticipated discussion topics in its meeting notices. We also find that the 
Water Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by improperly discussing a topic that was 
not appropriate for executive session behind closed doors. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. Because our 
review included executive session minutes that remain confidential, we do not provide a full 
recitation of the facts. 
By way of background, in 2000, the Town voted to create the Water Commission to take 
over the responsibilities related to Town water. While the Water Commission is a separate 
public body from the Light Commission, which was created by statute, the two public bodies 
share the same Commissioners and convene consecutive meetings. 
June 7, 2012 Complaint 
On May 1, 2012, the Water Commission and the Light Commission both convened in 
open and executive session, respectively. Each Commission filed two separate meeting notices 
4 We remind the Board that, while a public body may authorize an individual such as the Town Administrator or 
Town Counsel to respond on the public body's behalf, the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General's regulations 
require that the Board first review the Open Meeting Law complaint. See  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
5  For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
with the Town Clerk on April 27, 2012.6  The Water Commission's open session meeting notice 
identified it as the "Water Division" and included a description of the meetings as follows: "The 
Water Meeting will start at 6:00 PM going into executive session to discuss fluoride and a 
Commissioner's blog. The Light Meeting will immediately follow going into executive session 
to discuss solar energy proposals and a Commissioner's blog." The Water Commission filed a 
separate meeting notice for its executive session and listed the following headings and topics: 
"Old Business: Fluoridation of Public Water Supply; New Business: Commissioner's Blog; 
Other; Adjourn." Along with the meeting notice for its open session, the Light Commission filed 
a separate notice for an executive session and listed the following headings and topics: "Old 
Business: Community Energy Solar; New Business: Commissioner's Blog; Other; Adjourn." 
Neither Light Commission notice stated the time or location of the meeting, nor did it specify 
that it was a Light Commission meeting. 
Prior to convening each executive session, neither Commission voted to enter into 
executive session. Chairman Blais did not state the purpose for entering into executive session, 
nor did he announce whether the Board would reconvene in open session after the closed door 
discussion concluded. Chairman Blais and Gregg Edwards were present, along with Mr. 
Driscoll. The complainant, who was the third Commissioner, declined to participate in either 
executive session because she did not receive 48 hour notice that the Board planned to discuss 
her blog. Consequently, at the commencement of each executive session, the Board first 
approved a vote to remove "Commissioner's Blog" from the agenda. No roll call vote was 
recorded. 
During the Light Commission's executive session, it discussed a proposed Power 
Purchase Agreement. During the Water Commission's executive session, the discussion 
included Mr. Driscoll's report to the Water Commission on his efforts to speak with the 
Department of Public Health, as well as a history of water fluoridation in other public water 
systems in Massachusetts. Although not reflected in the meeting minutes, during a telephone 
conversation with our office, Mr. Driscoll stated that the discussion stemmed from an anticipated 
Town vote on the removal of fluoride from Town water at the May 15, 2012 Town Meeting, 
which the Water Commission believed might result in a lawsuit involving the Commission. Mr. 
Driscoll stated that shortly before the meeting, Attorney Doucette provided him with a written 
legal opinion concerning the fluoride vote. Although the minutes do not reflect a discussion 
about this legal opinion, nor is it included in the requisite list of documents used by the Water 
Commission, Mr. Driscoll explained to this office that it was not discussed in any detail but 
rather discussed "in a broad sense." 
July 26, 2012 Complaint 
On June 5, 2012, the Water Commission and the Light Commission both convened in 
open and executive session, respectively. Each Commission filed a separate meeting notice with 
the Town Clerk on June 1, 2012. The Water Commission's open session meeting notice 
identified it as the "Water Division" and included a description of the meeting as follows: "[t]he 
Water Meeting will start at 6:00 PM going into executive session to discuss an OML Complaint 
and a records request involving the Templeton Water Department." The Light Commission's 
6  While we appreciate the Board's effort to be transparent, we encourage the Board to consider consolidating the 
open and executive session topics into one notice for each Commission, respectively. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
notice did not specify the Division, but included a similar description of its meeting as follows: 
"[t]he Light meeting will start immediately following the Water meeting. The Light meeting 
may go into executive session for the discussion of a solar PPA Proposal, an OML Complaint 
and a records request involving the Templeton Light Department." Both notices provided the 
meeting location, however only the Water Commission's notice specified the precise time of the 
meeting. 
The three joint Commissioners opened and closed a series of sessions for both the Water 
and the Light Commission. First, they conducted open sessions for both public bodies. They 
started with the Water Commission and approved a vote by roll call to convene an executive 
session "for the purposes of discussing and approving Executive Session Water Minutes from 
May 1, 2012 and March 13, 2012." They closed that session and then convened the open session 
for the Light Commission and approved a vote by roll call to convene an executive session "for 
the purposes of discussing a purchased power agreement proposal with Nick Scobbo and 
discussing and approving Executive Session Light Minutes from May 1, 2012 and March 13, 
2012." Chairman Blais did not announce in either meeting whether the Board would reconvene 
in open session after the closed door discussion concluded. 
Next, the Commissioners convened executive sessions for both public bodies, beginning 
with the Light Commission, which discussed a purchased power agreement under Purpose 10, as 
well as an Open Meeting Law complaint. Then the Water Commission convened in executive 
session and discussed an Open Meeting Law complaint. According to the meeting minutes from 
both executive sessions, Mr. Driscoll offered a brief synopsis of an Open Meeting Law training 
that was conducted by Attorney Steven Doucette on May 21, 2012 and attended by Chairman 
Blais and Mr. Driscoll. Mr. Driscoll addressed the Commissioners' questions about the Open 
Meeting Law complaint. During each executive session, Mr. Driscoll distributed copies of the 
Open Meeting Law complaint and the public records request filed separately with each 
Commission, however the minutes do not reflect any discussion of either public records request. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law therefore requires that meetings of a public body 
be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)—(b), 21. 
i. 	 Neither Commission Violated the Open Meeting Law By Failing to Afford the  
Complainant At Least 48 hours Advanced Written Notice Because They Declined 
to Engage in the Anticipated Discussion Regarding the Complainant's Blog 
During Their May 1, 2012 meetings.  
A public body may enter executive—or closed—session for any of ten purposes, 
provided that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for the 
executive session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose 
for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a) & (b). One permissible reason 
for executive session is Purpose 1, "[t]o discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or 
mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline 
4 
===PAGE 5===
or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff 
member or individual." Id. at § 21(a)(1). If a public body enters executive session under 
Purpose 1, the individual discussed in the session must be notified in writing by the public body 
at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session and afforded certain other rights. Id. 
Although the Board's notice stated it would discuss a Commissioner's blog, the Board 
ultimately voted to remove the topic from its agenda, and the meeting minutes demonstrate that 
the Board did not engage in a discussion regarding the complainant during the respective 
executive sessions. Had the Board proceeded with this discussion, it may have violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to provide the complainant with at least 48 hours written notice prior to 
the meeting. However, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law because 
this discussion never occurred. 
ii. 	 The Water Commission's May 1, 2012 Discussion Regarding a Town Fluoride  
Vote Was Not Appropriate for Executive Session Under the Open Meeting Law.  
Although the Water Commission did not state the purpose for its May 1, 2012 executive 
session, either in the meeting notice or during its meeting, in his response to this complaint, Mr. 
Driscoll stated that it was necessary to have a closed door discussion "to protect the attorney-
client privilege" associated with a written legal opinion submitted to the Water Commission.7  A 
public body's discussions with its counsel or discussions surrounding a document that may be 
protected from disclosure by the attorney-client privilege do not automatically fall under any 
purpose for holding an executive session, however. See  OML 2012- 55;8  see also District 
Attorney for Plymouth District v. Board of Selectmen of Middleborough,  395 Mass. 629, 633 
(Mass. 1985) (while a public body may meet in executive session to communicate with counsel, 
it may do so only for one of the enumerated purposes for executive session.) 
A public body may convene in executive session under Purpose 3, "No discuss strategy 
with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). The public body invoking this executive session purpose must have a 
bargaining or litigating position to protect, and must declare in open session that having this 
discussion in open session may have a detrimental effect on that position. G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3); OML 2011-47. The mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke executive 
session Purpose 3. Rather, this purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with 
respect to litigation that is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise 
demonstrably likely. See Perryman v. School Committee of Boston,  17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 
(1983); OML 2012-05. Here, the meeting minutes do not reflect a discussion of a lawsuit, 
imminently threatened or otherwise. Rather, the Water Commission convened to discuss 
ancillary topics related to the upcoming fluoride vote, such as a history of water fluoridation in 
other public water systems in Massachusetts. 
We note that the minutes did not reflect any such discussion. Meeting minutes must contain "a summary of the 
discussions on each subject." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Where an entire subject is omitted from the minutes, clearly this 
requirement has not been met. 
8  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
5 
===PAGE 6===
Furthermore, we note that although executive session Purpose 7 allows a public body to 
review documents protected from disclosure under Massachusetts General Law in executive 
session, that purpose also does not appear applicable to the discussions held by the Board. See 
G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(7); OML 2011-54. 
iii. The Board Failed to Comply with Certain Procedural Requirements Before  
Convening in Executive Session.  
In addition, we find that the Board failed to follow certain procedural steps required 
before convening an executive session under the Open Meeting Law. A public body may enter 
executive session provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session, and that the vote of each member 
is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). Before entering the 
executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects 
that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was 
called, and the chair must publicly announce whether the open session will reconvene at the 
conclusion of the executive session. Id. 
While the Board failed to follow the requisite procedural steps in open session prior to 
convening each executive session during its May 1, 2012 meetings, the Board did follow these 
steps during its June 5, 2012 meetings.9  These are not mere technical violations. The statement 
of the executive session purpose is the public's only way of knowing what is being discussed 
behind closed doors, until the executive session minutes are released. OML 2012-55. 
Transparency therefore demands that the statement contain as much detail as possible without 
compromising the purpose for the executive session. Id. When a public body does not adhere to 
these requirements, the public has no means of judging the propriety of the executive session. 
Id. The Board should have been more attentive to the Law's requirements, therefore. 
iv. The Board Failed to Comply With Notice Posting Requirements under the Open 
Meeting Law.  
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include "the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the 
chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public 
bodies must list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally 
consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could 
9  While it is unclear from the minutes whether certain portions of the June 5, 2012 discussions about the Open 
Meeting Complaint and the public records requests were appropriate for executive session, we acknowledge that 
both involved executive session minutes that remain withheld from disclosure and therefore provide the following 
guidance. A public body may meet in executive session under Purpose 1 to review an Open Meeting Law 
complaint, if it so chooses. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1); OML 2011-6. Likewise, a public body may meet in 
executive session under Purpose 7 to review a public records request in the limited instances where the requested 
materials require confidentiality. See  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7). Thus a public body may enter executive session 
under Purpose 7 to "act under the authority" of the Public Records Law if, for example, it is discussing whether to 
release a document it has lawfully withheld, considering a document that state law requires to be kept confidential, 
or discussing information contained in a document that would infringe on an individual's right to privacy if revealed 
publicly. See  OML 2012-12. We note, however, that the discussion surrounding the Open Meeting Law training 
provided by Attorney Doucette was not appropriate under any executive session purpose. 
6 
===PAGE 7===
read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 
2011-44. 
In each of the meeting notices, the topics for executive session discussion, including 
"Commissioner's blog" and "to discuss an OML complaint," were vague and did not offer the 
public an understanding of the anticipated topics to be discussed at that particular meeting. The 
meeting notices should have also cited the executive session purpose(s) and specifically included 
details, such as the anticipated discussion regarding the blog or identifying the name of the 
person who filed the Open Meeting Law complaint, for example, if doing so would not have 
compromised the purpose for the executive session. See 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b); OML 2011-54. 
These meeting notices therefore fell short of the requirement that the Board state "all subjects 
that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session" will be 
called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). 
v. 	 The Board Failed to Conduct a Periodic Review to Justify Continued  
Nondisclosure of Executive Session Minutes under the Open Meeting Law.  
Finally, we remind the Board that executive session minutes may be withheld from 
disclosure to the public "as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive 
session, but no longer." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). When the purpose for a valid executive session 
has been served, the minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the session must be 
disclosed, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the public records law applies. 
Id. Public bodies have an obligation to review the minutes of executive sessions at reasonable 
intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of minutes is warranted, and to announce that 
determination at the next meeting following its review. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). The burden of 
justifying continued nondisclosure of executive session minutes lies with the public body. Foudy 
v. Amherst-Pelham Regional School Committee, 402 Mass. 179, 184 (1988). Attorney Doucette 
and Mr. Driscoll recently conducted a review of the executive session minutes and determined 
that their continued non-disclosure remained warranted. However, the Board did not announce 
this determination during an open meeting. We therefore order the Board, within thirty (30) days 
of receipt of this letter, to conduct a review of each set of executive session minutes to determine 
whether all or part of those minutes can be released, and to publicly announce its determination 
during an open session meeting. Additionally, we order the Board to release those portions of 
their minutes that were not appropriate for discussion in executive session. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to follow required procedures for entering into executive session and by failing to include 
sufficient detail about anticipated discussion topics in its meeting notices. We also find that the 
Water Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by improperly discussing a topic that was 
not appropriate for executive session behind closed doors. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that future similar violations may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. In addition, we order the Board to view the 
video training on the Open Meeting Law available at the Attorney General's website, and certify 
in writing to our office, within thirty (30) days after receiving this determination, that all of its 
members have done so. 
7 
===PAGE 8===
Finally, we order the Board to review the minutes from the executive session of both 
meetings and: (1) release all portions that were not appropriate for discussion in executive 
session; and (2) determine whether continued non-disclosure of the portions of the discussion 
that were appropriate for executive session under the Open Meeting Law is warranted, and 
publicly announce that determination during an open session meeting. Both aspects of this 
review must occur within thirty (30) days of receiving this determination. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this 
letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Julie Farrell 
Templeton Municipal Light and Water Plant Board Commissioners 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
8 