===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 3, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 191 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Janelle M. Austin, Esq. 
KP Law 
jaustin@k-plaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Austin: 
 
This office received a complaint from Richard Miranda, Jr., on March 17, 2023, alleging 
that the Acushnet Board of Selectmen (the “Select Board”) and the Acushnet Zoning Board of 
Appeals (the “ZBA”) (collectively, the “Boards”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Boards on or about February 17, 2023, and 
Attorney Devan Braun responded on behalf of the Boards by letter dated March 8, 2023. We 
understand the complaint to allege that in executive session on November 22, 2022,
1 the Boards 
improperly granted Verizon Wireless a special permit to construct a communications tower on 
Leonard Street, reversing an earlier vote of the ZBA denying the special permit.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Boards’ discussions on November 22 were proper 
for executive session where they pertained to an active litigation matter. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Boards’ response, the request 
for further review, meeting notices available online, and the final judgment entered in the 
litigation matter at issue in this case. We also communicated with town counsel
2 via email.  
 
To begin, we address the Boards’ assertion that the complaint is untimely. Complaints 
alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 30 days 
of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged violation could not reasonably have 
been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed within 30 days of the date it 
should reasonably have been discovered. 940 CMR 29.05(4). When an alleged violation occurs 
 
1 All dates are in 2022 unless otherwise stated. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
during an open meeting, the alleged violation is reasonably discoverable at the time it occurs. 
See OML 2021-84.3  
 
The Boards’ assertion that the complaint is untimely appears to be based on the Boards’ 
understanding that the complaint alleges that the Complainant and his wife were turned away 
from the November 22 executive session. If that were the allegation, then we would agree that 
the complaint is untimely. However, we understand the complaint to allege that, in executive 
session on November 22, the Boards improperly granted Verizon Wireless a special permit to 
construct a communications tower on Leonard Street, reversing an earlier vote of the ZBA 
denying the special permit. Where the action is alleged to have taken place in executive session, 
and where the Boards have offered nothing to counter the Complainant’s assertion that he 
learned on January 20 that the special permit had been granted, we find the complaint to be 
timely and address the allegations. 
 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
delibe
rations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). To that end, the Open Meeting Law requires that 
meetings of a public body be properly noticed and be open to members of the public, unless a 
lawful executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A public body may 
enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open 
Meeting Law, provided that it first convenes in open session and follows the required procedures 
set forth in G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). One permissible reason to convene in executive session is “to 
discuss strategy with respect to . . . litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the . . . litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) 
(“Purpose 3”). This purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with respect to 
litigation that is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely; 
the mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3.  
 
We under
stand based on the information available to us that on September 20 the ZBA 
denied Verizon Wireless’ application for a special permit to construct a communications tower 
on Leonard Street. Thereafter, Verizon Wireless filed a lawsuit with respect to that denial.
4 On 
November 22 the Select Board and the ZBA met in executive session under Purpose 3 to discuss 
strategy with respect to the Verizon Wireless litigation and voted to authorize settlement of the 
matter. On January 23, 2023, the Town and Verizon Wireless filed a Joint Motion for Entry of 
Agreement for Judgment. The final judgment attached to the motion, among other things, 
proposed to vacate “the September 20, 2022 decision of the Town of Acushnet Zoning Board of 
Appeals . . . relative to the property located at 207 Leonard Street . . .” and to grant Verizon 
Wireless a special permit. On January 31, 2023, the court allowed the joint motion and accepted 
the parties’ final judgment, resulting in the matter being dismissed with prejudice. 
 
Discussions of litigation strategy, including discussions of settlement, are permitted in 
e
xecutive session under Purpose 3. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3); OML 2021-27. Furthermore, 
public bodies are not required, under Purpose 3, to announce or ratify a settlement agreement in 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 Cellco Partnership d/b/a Verizon Wireless v. Town of Acushnet et al., No. 1:22 -cv-11789 (D. Mass). 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
open session. See OML 2021-27 (noting, however, that we recommend that public bodies 
announce in open session when a settlement agreement has been reached and describe the terms 
of the agreement); OML 2021-25; OML 2018-70. Therefore, we find that the Boards did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing and authorizing settlement of the Verizon Wireless 
litigation in executive session. We do not, however, offer any opinion as to whether the Boards 
may have violated any other state or federal laws or local bylaws, including any law or bylaw 
requiring a public hearing. 
 
Finally, we note that final judgment dismissing the litigation matter was entered on 
Janua
ry 31, 2023. We remind the Boards that executive session minutes may be withheld from 
disclosure to the public for “as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the 
executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). Additionally, if executive session is held 
pursuant to Purpose 3, “then the minutes, preparatory materials and documents and exhibits used 
at the session may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety, unless and until 
such time as [the] litigating . . . position is no longer jeopardized by such disclosure, at which 
time they shall be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or 1 or more of the exemptions 
under [the Public Records Law] apply to withhold these records, or any portion thereof, from 
disclosure.” Id. Where the litigation matter at issue has now been dismissed with prejudice, the 
Boards may not continue to withhold the minutes of executive sessions in which the litigation 
matter was discussed, including the minutes of the November 22 executive session. However, the 
Boards may make appropriate redactions to the minutes to protect attorney-client privileged 
information or other redactions permitted under the Public Records Law. See OML 2020-146; 
OML 2022-87. 
  
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Select Board and ZBA did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Select Board, the ZBA, or our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if 
you have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
cc: Acushnet Board of Selectmen and Zoning Board of Appeals c/o James Kelley , Town 
Administrator (via email: jkelley@acushnet.ma.us) 
 Pamela Labonte, Town Clerk (via email: plabonte@acushnet.ma.us) 
Devan Braun, Esq., KP Law (via email: DBraun@k-plaw.com) 
Robin Stein, Esq., KP Law (via email: RStein@k-plaw.com)   
Richard Miranda, Jr. (via email: ) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
