===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
February 21, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 21 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY
  
 
Diane Kenney 
Chair, Town of Wareham Decas School Steering Committee  
 
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Kenney: 
 
This office received a complaint from Nora Bicki on August 3, 2022,
1 alleging that the 
Town of Wareham’s Decas School Steering Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on 
July 7. After a request from this office that the Committee please provide a response to the 
complaint, you submitted a response on behalf of the Committee on August 3. We understand 
the complaint to allege that the Committee failed to timely create and approve meeting minutes 
and that Committee members failed to complete the required Open Meeting Law certification 
form.    
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination we reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaint; 
the Committee’s response, including additional documents submitted with the response; the 
request for further review; the minutes of the Committee’s May 11 meeting; and additional 
information provided by the Complainant. We also communicated with the Chair of the 
Committee,
2 the Committee, and the Town Clerk via email on several occasions. 
 
To begin, we note that the Committee was required, within 14 business days of receiving 
the Open Meeting Law complaint, to meet to review the complaint’s allegations, determine 
whether remedial action was appropriate, and respond in writing to the complainant, providing a 
copy of the complaint and response to our office at the same time. G.L. c. 30A, § 23; 940 CMR 
29.05(5). The Committee did not comply with these requirements. 
 
 
1 Unless otherwise noted, all dates are in 2022. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The complaint stems from three public records requests the Complainant made for 
various meeting minutes and copies of Committee members’ Open Meeting Law certification 
forms. Together, the three requests sought, among other things,3 minutes for meetings held on 
the following dates: March 30; April 6, 13, 16, 23, and 27; and May 4, 11, 18, and 26. The 
Complainant also requested copies of the Open Meeting Law certification forms for each 
member of the Committee. Based on the responses to her public records requests, the 
Complainant believed that the Committee had failed to timely create and approve the minutes 
requested and that some members of the Committee had failed to complete the open Meeting 
Law certification form. Therefore, the Complainant filed the instant complaint.    
 
First, the Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes must be reviewed 
and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). “Timely manner” means “within the next 
three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can 
show good cause for further delay.” 940 CMR 29.11. Whenever possible, we recommend that 
minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2018-67; OML 2017-133.
4  
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee failed to timely approve minutes for meetings 
held on the following dates: March 30; April 6,
5 13, 16, 23,6 and 27; and May 4, 11, 18, and 26. 
Based on a review of the Committee’s May 11 meeting minutes and information provided to our 
office by the Committee, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law where it 
failed to timely approve minutes for meetings held on April 7 and May 11. We find that the 
remainder of the meeting minutes at issue here were approved within the later of three meetings 
or 30 days and therefore were timely approved. 
 
Next, the Open Meeting Law requires that “within 2 weeks of qualification for office, all 
persons serving on a public body shall certify, on a form prescribed by the attorney general, the 
receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, regulations promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a 
copy of the educational materials prepared by the attorney general explaining the open meeting 
law and its application pursuant to section 19 . . . . The certification shall be evidence that the 
member of a public body has read and understands the requirements of the open meeting law and 
the consequences of violating it.” G.L. c. 30A § 20(h). The Open Meeting Law regulations 
further define the educational materials that must be provided to include a copy of each Open 
Meeting Law determination issued to the public body within the last five years in which our 
office found a violation. 940 CMR 29.04(1). Finally, the regulations clarify that “[a]n individual 
 
3 The requests for meeting minutes were made under the Public Records Law. Additionally, the requests also sought 
documents used at various meetings. Requests for meeting minutes made under the Public Records Law, as well as 
requests for documents other than meeting minutes, fall under the Public Records Law. To the extent the complaint 
alleges that the Committee did not timely or fully respond to the Complainant’s public record s request, we decline to 
review those allegations as they fall under the purview of the Supervisor of Records within the Secretary of the 
Commonwealth’s office. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
5 Based on information provided to our office, we understand that this meeting occurred on April 7, not April 6.  
6 Based on information provided to our office, we understand that no meeting occurred on April 23.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
serving on multiple public bodies must sign a certification for each public body on which he or 
she serves[,]” and that public body members “must sign a new certification upon reelection or 
reappointment to the public body.” 940 CMR 29.04(4)&(5). For local public bodies, the 
municipal clerk is responsible for providing the certification materials to public body members.  
940 CMR 29.04(1). 
 
Through the complaint and subsequent communications with our office, the Complainant 
alleges that three of the six Committee members failed to complete the Open Meeting law 
certification form.
7 Although the Committee has asserted that the remaining certification forms 
were located and provided to the Complainant, the Committee has failed to provide any 
certification forms to our office despite multiple requests.8 Therefore, we find that the 
certification forms were not properly completed, and that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to timely approve meeting minutes and by failing to complete the Open Meeting Law 
certification forms. We understand that the Committee has disbanded and is no longer in 
existence; therefore, we do not order additional remedial action.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Decas School Steering Committee (via e-mail: Decascommittee@wareham.ma.us) 
 Michele Bissonnette, Wareham Town Clerk (via e-mail: MBissonnette@wareham.ma.us) 
Nora Bicki (via email: )  
 
 
7 In an August 2 email to our office the Complainant explained that she had been provided with the certification 
forms for Chair Kenney, Jonathan Dallmeyer, and Damon Solomon. The Complainant further explained that 
although she received several ethics certificates and swearing-in forms, she did not receive Open Meeting Law 
certification forms for the three remaining Committee members—Jody Santagate, Charles Klueber, and Tracie 
Williams. 
8 We remind public bodies that the Open Meeting Law requires that, “[u]pon notification of an investigation, any 
person, public body or any other . . . official or entity who is the subject of an investigation, shall make all 
information necessary to conduct such investigation available to the attorney general.” G.L. c. 30A, § 2 4(a); see also 
940 CMR 29.06(2) (“Upon notice of the investigation, the subject of the investigation shall provide the Attorney 
General with all information relevant to the investigation.”). 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 