===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
April 23, 2013 
OML 2013 - 51 
Lauren C. Galvin 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
Crown Colony Plaza 
300 Crown Colony Drive 
Suite 410 
P.O. Box 9126 
Quincy, MA 02269 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Galvin: 
This office received a complaint from John Lovejoy, dated April 12, 2012, alleging that 
the Hampden-Wilbraham Regional School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint alleges that on January 10, 2012, after a 
regular Committee meeting, four members of the seven-member Committee met in private to 
discuss Committee business in the Superintendent's office. The complaint was originally filed 
with the Committee on or about February 6, 2012. The Committee responded through Counsel 
by letter dated February 16, 2012. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when 
a quorum of the Committee held a discussion in private on January 10, 2012. However, we find 
that this brief conversation was not an intentional violation of the Law. In reaching this 
determination we reviewed the February 6, 2012 complaint filed with the Committee; the 
Committee's February 16, 2012 response; and the April 12, 2012 complaint filed with our office. 
Additionally, we reviewed a May 23, 2012 letter from Committee Attorney Lauren Galvini  
which included statements from Committee members Lisa Morace and Gilles Turcotte. 
I  For purposes of clarity in the letter, we will refer to you in the third person. 
1 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
The Committee is a seven-member public body, thus four members constitute a quorum. 
Prior to the Committee's January 10, 2012 meeting, Committee member Gilles Turcotte spoke 
with Committee member Peter Solerno, and expressed to him that there was a perception that 
Mr. Salerno and Committee Chair Scott Chapman were taking action without discussion or 
participation by other members of the Committee. Following the January 10, 2012 open 
meeting, Mr. Solemo invited Mr. Turcotte and Committee member Lisa Morace to meet with 
him and Chair Chapman in the Superintendent's office. 
The Committee's Attorney interviewed or collected statements from each of the four 
Committee members who participated in the discussion in the Superintendent's office. 
According to Chair Chapman and Mr. Solerno, the four met briefly in the office after the regular 
meeting adjourned. Chair Chapman and Mr. Salerno explained to the other two members that 
they were sorry if any perception existed that Committee members were being excluded, and 
assured them that they would make certain that they did not want to do anything in the future to 
create such a perception. According to Ms. Morace's statement, Mr. Salerno said that he was 
sorry that it was perceived that some Committee members do all the work. Ms. Morace 
responded that there was a perception that some people were being left out. She does not 
remember anything further about the discussion. Mr. Turcotte's statement confirms this account. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law defines a "meeting" as "a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. "Deliberation" is 
defined, in part, as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id. A public body must post notice of every meeting that includes "the date, time 
and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The law requires that "all meetings of a public 
body shall be open to the public," subject to limited exceptions for executive sessions. G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(a). 
Here, it appears that a quorum of the Committee held a very brief discussion, out of the 
public view, after a properly noticed meeting adjourned. This discussion was prompted by two 
members' complaint to another member about feeling left out of Committee actions. The brief 
conversation between four Committee members involved discussion of both interpersonal 
relationships and how the Committee conducts its business. Discussions about members' 
personal dynamics generally do not concern public business within a Committee's jurisdiction. 
However, discussions about how a public body conducts its business may constitute public 
business within the body's jurisdiction. See OML 2011-38 (finding that discussion between a 
quorum of a public body about a leadership position was public business within its jurisdiction).1  
To the extent the brief discussion that occurred here covered both interpersonal issues and public 
business within the Committee's jurisdiction—namely how the Committee delegates its work—
the discussion should have been conducted during a meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2011- 
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
2 
===PAGE 3===
38. We acknowledge that sometimes it can be difficult to judge the line between an 
interpersonal issue and administrative matters that are public business within a body's 
jurisdiction. Because we believe that, here, the Committee Chair was making a good faith 
attempt to address what was predominately a matter of personal dynamics, we do not find this to 
be an intentional violation. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by conducting a brief discussion 
outside of the public's view. We do not believe that this was an intentional violation. We order 
the Committee's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during this investigation, and 
now consider this matter closed. Please contact me if you have any questions regarding this 
letter. 
Sincerel 
.kinathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Hampden-Wilbraham Regional School Committee 
John Lovejoy 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3 