===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
August 25, 2026 
       
       OML 2026 – 112 
 
 
Jane Medeiros Friedman, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
30 Green Street 
Newburyport, MA 01950 
 
 RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Friedman: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on October 21, 2025, alleging that 
the Fairhaven Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on October 3, 2025, and you responded, 
on behalf of the Board, by letter dated October 20, 2025.  The complaint alleges that the Board 
held an improper emergency meeting and convened in executive session for an improper purpose 
on September 30, 2025. 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by convening in executive 
session on September 30, 2025, but did not violate the law in the other way alleged.  In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, 
and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed the notice 
and open and executive session minutes of the Board meeting held on September 30, 2025, the 
notice and minutes of the Board meeting held on October 14, 2025, and a video recording of the 
open session portion of the September 30, 2025, meeting.
1  
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  On the morning of September 29, 2025, which was his first 
day on the job, Town Administrator Keith Hickey discovered that, on July 24, 2025, former 
Interim Town Administrator George Samia had executed a written agreement with Interim 
 
1 A video recording of the Board meeting held on September 30, 2025, is available at 
https://vimeo.com/showcase/11515032?video=1122043744.    
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Treasurer Kerri King and AFSCME Council 93.2  The agreement appointed Ms. King as Interim 
Treasurer from July 1 to September 30, 2025, and compensated her with an additional $475.00 
per week.  The agreement ended on September 30, 2025, unless an extension was signed by all 
parties.  Ms. King had been absent from work due to a personal issue, could not be contacted, 
and had not provided the Town with a return-to-work date.  Mr. Samia had not informed Mr. 
Hickey that Ms. King’s term of employment was scheduled to end and that the Town of 
Fairhaven would be without a treasurer if it failed to either extend the agreement, appoint another 
interim treasurer, or appoint a permanent treasurer.  
 
After discovering the agreement, Mr. Hickey notified the Board.  On September 29, 
2025, at 12:58 P.M., the Board posted notice of an emergency meeting to be held on September 
30, 2025, at 11:00 A.M.  The notice listed two topics – “Authorize Town Administrator as 
Signatory for the Town” and an executive session pursuant to Purpose 2 to “conduct strategy 
sessions in preparation for negotiations with non-union personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel: (AFSCME).”  Later that 
day, at 3:54 P.M., the Board amended the notice by clarifying the first topic as “Authorize Town 
Administrator as Temporary Treasurer for the Town.” 
 
 The September 30, 2025, meeting was held as planned.  During the meeting, Mr. Hickey 
explained the existing agreement between Ms. King, the Town and AFSCME and that the 
agreement expired that day.  He recommended that the Board appoint him as the Temporary 
Treasurer until all parties to the original agreement were available to discuss extending the terms 
of that agreement.  Board Member Andrew Saunders made a motion, which was seconded by 
Member Andew Romano, to appoint “Town Administrator Keith Hickey to the position of 
Temporary Treasurer, to serve until a successor temporary or permanent Treasurer is appointed 
by the Select Board.”  The Board unanimously voted to appoint Mr. Hickey as Temporary 
Treasurer.   
 
Board Chair Charles Murphy then announced that the Board would convene in executive 
session pursuant to Purpose 2 to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with 
non-union personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with 
nonunion personnel: AFSCME and would not return to open session.  The Board unanimously 
voted by roll call vote to convene in executive session. 
 
During the executive session, which lasted for approximately five minutes, Mr. Hickey 
asked the Board to authorize him to meet with representatives from AFSCME to negotiate the 
extension of the agreement that expired that day to mid-November.  Mr. Hickey explained that 
there are two interim positions, Treasurer and Assistant Treasurer/Collector, and that a proposal 
would be brought to the Board once negotiations were complete.  Mr. Saunders made a motion, 
which was seconded by Mr. Romano, to authorize Labor Counsel and Mr. Hickey to negotiate 
with AFSCME an extension of the existing agreement until November 15, 2025.  The Board 
approved the motion by a unanimous roll call vote.  
 
On October 9, 2025, at 3:14 P.M., the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on 
October 14, 2025, at 6:30 P.M.  The notice listed 10 main topic headings and under each topic 
 
2 The Northern New England council of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
heading more specific topics were listed.  One main topic was listed as “Action/Discussion” and 
included 16 specific item descriptions that further advised the public of the topics to be 
discussed, two of which were “Reauthorize Keith Hickey as Temporary Treasurer for the Town” 
and “Reauthorize Keith Hickey and Labor Counsel to negotiate Memorandum of Understanding 
extension with AFSCME for Interim Treasurer and Interim Assistant Treasurer/Collector.” 
 
 The October 14, 2025, meeting was held as planned.  During the meeting, the Board 
reappointed Mr. Hickey to the position of Temporary Treasurer, to serve until a successor 
temporary or permanent treasurer was appointed by the Board.  The Board also, in open session, 
reauthorized Mr. Hickey and Labor Counsel to negotiate with AFSCME an extension of the 
agreement with both the Interim Treasurer and Interim Assistant Treasurer/Collector. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public 
body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be printed in a 
legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as 
well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Id.  The list of 
topics shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  In case of an emergency, the public body 
should post notice of the meeting as soon as reasonably possible.  Id.  An “emergency” is defined 
as “a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding immediate 
action.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The burden of justifying the need for an emergency meeting lies 
with the public body.  See OML 2012-7; OML 2010-6.3   
 
The complaint alleges that the Board held an improper emergency meeting on September 
30, 2025.  Emergency meetings are reserved for circumstances that are unanticipated and require 
an immediate response.  See OML 2016-70; OML 2011-45.  We find no evidence, nor have we 
been presented with any evidence, that the Board anticipated the expiration of the Interim 
Treasurer position at any time prior to September 29, 2025, and thus find that the topic was 
unexpected.  Moreover, the Board believed that immediate action was required to ensure that 
payroll for town employees would process on October 1, 2025.  See G.L. c. 41, § 35 (treasurer 
“shall receive and take charge of all money belonging to the town, and pay over and account for 
the same according to the order of the town or of its authorized officers.  No other person shall 
pay any bill of any department . . . .”).  Although the Town Administrator manages and 
supervises all town departments under the jurisdiction of the Board, including the treasurer, the 
Board, upon the absence of a town treasurer, “appoints a temporary treasurer to hold such office 
and exercise the powers and perform the duties thereof until another is duly elected or 
appointed.”  G.L. c. 41, § 40; see also Fairhaven Special Acts, c. A502-6, § 2(e).  Therefore, we 
find that the Board provided a valid justification for its September 30, 2025, emergency meeting.  
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
See OML 2022-40 (finding that in light of the specific timing of the grant writer’s resignation 
and the grant application deadline, an “emergency” existed which allowed the Select Board to 
hold a meeting to discuss a plan for finalizing and submitting the grant application without 
posting notice 48 hours in advance); OML 2017-131 (finding that the unexpected cancellation of 
two meetings due to inclement weather required the Board of Selectmen to take immediate 
action and justified an emergency meeting to sign financial documents even though the Board 
had been aware of the issue for some time); OML 2017-128 (finding that an emergency meeting 
was justified when the Board of Selectmen met to issue a one-day liquor license after a wedding 
reception had to be relocated from a private residence to a municipal property). 
 
While we find that the nature of the Board’s discussions justified holding an emergency 
meeting, we find that the Board should not have convened in executive session on September 30, 
2025.  A public body may enter executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes, provided 
that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of members of the body have voted 
to go into executive session, and that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and 
entered into the minutes.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21 (a), (b).  One executive session purpose allows a 
public body to enter executive session “[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract 
negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”).  When convening 
in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2, a public body must identify the nonunion personnel 
or collective bargaining unit with whom it will be negotiating, if doing so will not compromise 
the lawful purpose for secrecy.  See OML 2017-53; OML 2016-43; OML 2013-151.  
 
During the September 30, 2025, executive session, the Board authorized Labor Counsel 
and Mr. Hickey to negotiate with AFSCME to extend the agreement with the Interim Treasurer 
to November 15, 2025.  We find that such discussions did not fit within the parameters of 
executive session Purpose 2, as the discussions did not pertain to strategy sessions in preparation 
for negotiations with nonunion personnel nor did the Board conduct collective bargaining or 
contract negotiations.  See OML 2021-21; OML 2013-195.  We commend the Board for taking 
remedial action, in response to the complaint, during its October 14, 2025, open session meeting 
by reappointing Mr. Hickey as Temporary Treasurer and reauthorizing Mr. Hickey and Labor 
Counsel to negotiate with AFSCME for an extension of the agreement with the Interim 
Treasurer. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board held a valid emergency meeting on 
September 30, 2025, but violated the Open Meeting Law by separately convening in executive 
session.  As a result of our finding that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by meeting in 
executive session for an improper purpose, we order the Board, within 30 days of the date of this 
letter, to publicly release the September 30, 2025, executive session minutes.  The Board may 
not redact or withhold the minutes in any way.  See G.L c. 30A, § 22(f) (“The minutes of any 
executive session ... may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety ... as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer; provided, 
however, that the executive session was held in compliance with section 21”); OML 2014-42.  In 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
addition, we order immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution 
that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  Patrick Higgins – By email only:  
Fairhaven Select Board – By email only: selectboard@fairhaven-ma.gov 
Fairhaven Town Clerk – By email only: clerk@fairhaven-ma.gov  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
