===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
September 21, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 145 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Marc L. Terry, Esq.  
Mirick, O’Connell, Demallie & Lougee, LLP 
mterry@mirickoconnell.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Terry: 
 
This office received a complaint from Laura Ortiz on July 18, 2022, alleging that the 
Pioneer Valley Performing Arts Charter Public School Board of Trustees (the “Board”) violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the 
Board on May 2, 2022, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated May 20, 2022.
1  
The complaint alleges that 1) the Board failed to respond to requests for meeting minutes; 2) 
meeting notices failed to specify that votes would take place regarding particular topics; 3) the 
Board added topics to meeting notices less than 48 hours prior to meetings; 4) the Board 
delegated certain authority of the Board to an Interim Superintendent and failed to follow proper 
procedures when amending motions; 5) the minutes of the Board’s March 17 meeting do not 
accurately capture the vote that occurred; 6) discussion during the Board’s March 17 meeting 
shows that minutes of the Executive Search Committee’s February 9 meeting contain 
inaccuracies; and 7) the composition of the Board violates various state laws.  Several of the 
complaint’s allegations include numerous related allegations.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
any of the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Board’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request to our office for further review 
of the complaint along with 31 attachments.  We also reviewed the notices and minutes for the 
Board’s March 17 and April 5 meetings and spoke with counsel for the Board by phone.  
 
  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Allegations We Decline to Review 
   
As a preliminary matter, we decline to review allegations in the complaint that would not 
constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law even if true, that were not timely raised, or that 
were not alleged with a sufficient degree of specificity. 
 
I. Allegations outside the scope of the Open Meeting Law 
 
The Division of Open Government’s statutory authority concerns compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, and we therefore decline to review allegations that, even if true, would not 
constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2021-32; OML 2019-85; OML 
Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners).2  For this reason, we 
decline to review allegations regarding the delegation of the Board’s authority, the composition 
of the Board’s membership, and procedures used when amending motions such as votes taken 
without a second on a motion or voting on modified motion language without a vote to amend 
the motion.  See OML 2022-215.  Likewise, we decline to review allegations that the Board 
violated the Massachusetts conflict of interest law.  In addition, we decline to review allegations 
that the Board failed to post meeting minutes online.  The Open Meeting Law does not require 
that public bodies post their minutes to a website or elsewhere, but only that minutes be 
approved in a timely manner and made available upon request.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); see 
also OML 2017-98; OML 2017-25. 
 
In addition, we decline to review allegations that concern compliance with the Public 
Records Law, rather than the Open Meeting Law.  Most requests for government documents are 
governed by the Public Records Law.  See 950 C.M.R. 32.06(2)(e).  However, the Open Meeting 
Law also provides a mechanism for the public to request meeting minutes specifically.  G.L. 
c. 30A, § 22.  The Open Meeting Law does not govern a public body’s response to a request for 
records other than meeting minutes, such as correspondence or documents used during a 
meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 22(c),(e); OML Declination 8-9-13 (Southwick Board of 
Selectmen).  Therefore, failure to timely respond to requests for documents other than minutes 
concerns a potential violation of the Public Records Law, rather than the Open Meeting Law.  
Here, the complainant and the Board disagree as to whether the complainant’s April 7 request 
clearly included a request for minutes of the Board’s March 17 meeting, or only a request for 
other documents.  We need not resolve this dispute, however.  When a requester does not specify 
whether the request for meeting minutes is being made under the Public Records Law or the 
Open Meeting Law, we have said that a request that is directed to a public body will fall within 
the Open Meeting Law, but a request for minutes that is directed to a records access officer 
(RAO) or other employee, such as a superintendent, will likely fall under the Public Records 
Law.  See OML 2019-126; OML 2019-68.  A request for meeting minutes made under the Open 
Meeting Law requires a response within 10 calendar days, whereas a request for meeting minutes 
made under the Public Records Law requires a response within 10 business days.  Compare G.L. 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
c. 30A, §§ 22(c), (g) with G.L. c. 66, § 10; see also OML 2019-163; OML 2019-20; OML 2019-
68. 
 
The complainant asserts that her April 7 request was made to Interim Head of School 
Brent Nielsen, and the complainant further asserts that “all RAO’s at this point knew” of the 
obligation to respond to the request for meeting minutes.  Therefore, even assuming that the 
complainant’s April 7 request clearly sought minutes of the March 17 meeting, we would find 
that the response to that request was governed by the Public Records Law, rather than the Open 
Meeting Law, and we decline to review this allegation.  See OML 2020-8; OML 2015-17; OML 
Declination 3-11-15 (Wayland School Committee).  We note that the minutes of the March 17 
meeting were posted online and made publicly available on April 21. 
 
II. Allegations that were not timely raised  
 
To be considered timely, an Open Meeting Law complaint must be filed with the public 
body within 30 days of the alleged violation.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4).  If the 
alleged violation could not have been known at the time it occurred—for example, if the 
violation took place in executive session—then the complaint must be filed within 30 days of the 
date on which the alleged violation should reasonably have been discovered.  940 CMR 
29.05(4).  When reviewing the timeliness of a complaint we consider when the action that is 
alleged to have violated the Open Meeting Law was reasonably discoverable, not when an 
individual complainant became aware of the action or of the requirements of the Open Meeting 
Law.  See OML Declination 2-8-22 (Milton Select Board); OML Declination 12-18-20 
(Pembroke Board of Health); OML Declination 5-21-12 (Montague Board of Selectmen).  
Violations that take place during an open session can reasonably be discovered at the time they 
occur.  See OML 2012-52.  
 
The complaint contains several allegations regarding “open meetings for 4/5/22, 3/17/22 
and prior.”  We decline to review allegations that concern the sufficiency of notices for the 
March 17 or unspecified prior meetings and we decline to review allegations regarding actions 
taken in open session at the March 17 or unspecified prior meetings.  The complaint was filed 
with the Board on May 2, more than 30 days after any such alleged violations occurred or were 
reasonably discoverable.  Similarly, to the extent that discussion during the March 17 meeting 
allegedly revealed inaccuracies in previously-approved meeting minutes for a February meeting, 
such a violation was discoverable as of March 17.    
 
III. Allegations that were not sufficiently detailed in the complaint 
 
Open Meeting Law complaints must identify the basis for alleged violations with a 
degree of specificity; our office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on 
generalized allegations.  See OML 2021-129; OML Declination 4-22-15 (Natick Economic 
Development Advisory Committee); OML Declination 3-20-12 (Wilmington Board of 
Assessors).  The complaint alleges that the Board “added on additional agenda items and/or 
topics that were not sufficiently publicly noticed at all (less than 48 hours) and engaged in 
discussions for them,” but did not identify which topics allegedly were discussed during the 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
meeting despite being added to the meeting notice less than 48 hours in advance of the meeting 
or not at all.  Therefore, we decline to review such allegations. 
 
Allegations We Review 
 
I. The notice for the Board’s April 5 meeting was sufficiently specific.  
 
The complaint alleges that the notice for the Board’s April 5 meeting was insufficiently 
specific because the notice did not specify that the Board would vote regarding a mask policy at 
the school.  The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body must post notice of every 
meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(b).  Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed at the meeting.”  Id.  The listing of topics shall have sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public 
could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See 
OML 2018-7; OML 2015-35.  Where a public body’s discussion naturally flows from its 
consideration of the posted agenda topic, the notice was sufficient to inform the public of the 
discussion that occurred. See OML 2018-14; OML 2014-44; OML 2014-38.  It is reasonably 
foreseeable that a public body may take action and hold a vote following discussion of a topic 
listed on a meeting notice; the Open Meeting Law does not require that the notice separately 
indicate the possibility of a vote. See OML 2021-153; 2019-36; 2015-66; OML 2012-75.  
 
The complaint alleges that the notice for the Board’s April 5 meeting was insufficiently 
specific where it included the topic “Mask Policy Updates” without specifying that a vote would 
be taken or what, specifically, the vote would entail.  Although it is good practice for a notice to 
specify that a vote will be taken when a vote is indeed anticipated in advance, the Open Meeting 
Law does not require this.  See OML 2022-239; OML 2015-66.  Here, the Board’s vote naturally 
flowed from its discussion on the listed topic.  See OML 2012-32; OML 2013-152.  Indeed, the 
Board voted on three separate motions, with significant discussion between each, before it was 
able to pass a motion establishing a course of action on mask policy, which only underscores that 
the exact language of the vote was not known nor reasonable anticipated in advance of the 
meeting and that the vote that ultimately took place naturally flowed from its discussion of the 
listed topic, “Mask Policy Updates.”  Accordingly, we find the notice was sufficiently specific. 
 
II. The minutes of the Board’s March 17 meeting are sufficiently detailed.  
 
Next, the complaint alleges that the minutes of the Board’s March 17 meeting are 
insufficiently detailed.  The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to “create and maintain 
accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and 
place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  When reviewing minutes 
for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the 
accuracy requirement.  See OML 2013-64; OML 2017-104.  By substantial compliance, we 
mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what 
occurred.  See OML 2012-106.  While minutes must include a summary of the discussion on 
each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or 
opinion presented.  See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-5.   
 
The complaint alleges that the minutes of the Board’s March 17 meeting are insufficient 
in six ways.  First and fifth, the complaint alleges that the minutes fail to “detail the specific 
votes that occurred” and fail to “provide sufficient details or accuracies on actions taken (even 
brought up at the last minute live during the meeting) nor record all votes they attempted to take 
on those minutes.”  Upon review of the minutes, we find the minutes clearly record the Board’s 
vote on one motion: “to keep the mask mandate in place as is, and the issue will be revisited at 
the April Board Meeting.”  The minutes state that the motion was made and seconded, and that 
the Board voted to approve the motion.  The minutes also record the roll call vote, listing each 
Board member’s name followed by “Aye,” “No,” or “Absent.”  We find the record of this vote 
sufficient to comply with the Open Meeting Law.  We construe the fifth allegation as alleging 
that the Board took additional votes or actions during its March 17 which were not recorded in 
the minutes.  The complaint does not identify what other votes or actions allegedly were taken 
during the March 17 meeting which were omitted altogether from the minutes.  The Board 
acknowledges there was some discussion and confusion regarding the wording of the motion that 
was ultimately voted and which is recorded in the minutes, but denies that any other actions or 
votes were taken.  Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s account 
of the facts.  See OML 2019-73; OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141; LaPointe v. License Board of 
Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983).  We find that the minutes accurately record the only vote 
taken during the March 17 meeting.   
 
Second and third, the complaint alleges that the minutes fail to “detail sufficiently and/or 
accurately specific discussions on every vote that occurred or was discussed” and fail to “detail 
sufficiently and/or accurately it’s specific vote wording that was changed live during the open 
meeting on these minutes.”  The minutes of the March 17 meeting summarize public comment 
from several individuals, as well as extended discussion regarding whether to continue a mask 
requirement for students and staff, before recording a vote on the topic.  The complaint does not 
identify any particular areas of discussion that were not summarized in the minutes, and in any 
event we have consistently stated that a transcript is not required and that minutes need not 
include every remark or opinion presented to satisfy the Open Meeting Law’s accuracy 
requirement.  See OML 2012-29; OML 2019-121.  While we appreciate that the complainant 
would prefer that the minutes capture specific discussion surrounding the wording of the motion, 
we find that such additional detail was not required in order to understand the discussion and 
vote that occurred.  See OML 2019-145.  Here, the minutes include a summary of the discussion 
as well as a record of the vote, and therefore satisfy the Law’s accuracy requirement.   
 
Fourth, the complaint alleges that the minutes fail to “detail sufficiently and/or accurately 
when we believe they failed to follow the proper procedures for motioning a vote prior to the full 
body trying to discuss those new unnoticed agenda items/topics and then vote on it on these 
minutes.”  With limited exceptions, the Open Meeting Law does not address matters of 
parliamentary procedure and does not require that meeting minutes specifically document the 
motioning of a vote.  See OML 2019-96; OML 2014-4.  Rather, the Law requires that minutes 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
include “a summary of the discussions on each subject..., the decisions made and the actions 
taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  As explained 
above, the complaint does not allege that the minutes omit any particular votes that took place, 
and we find that the minutes, on their face, are accurate.  
 
Sixth and finally, the complaint alleges that the minutes of the Board’s March 17 meeting 
fail to include a list of documents and exhibits that were used during the meeting.  In particular, 
the complaint alleges that the minutes do not include “South Hadley Board of Health Exhibits, 
and also the Exhibits of the statistic on the total counts of Covid-19 positive students and staff in 
the district or other community exhibits they relied on...”  The Open Meeting Law requires that 
meeting minutes include “a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a).  The Open Meeting Law does not define what it means for a document to be 
“used” at a meeting but, at a minimum, it is clear that where a document is physically present, 
verbally identified, and the contents are discussed by the members of a public body during an 
open meeting, it has been “used” for purposes of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2014-12; 
OML 2012-42.  Although the Board acknowledges that there was reference during the meeting 
to COVID-19 data from South Hadley as well as reference to a communication from the 
Department of Elementary and Secondary Education conveying that the mask requirement for K-
12 schools was lifted, no specific documents were present, identified, or discussed.  We find that 
merely mentioning or referencing information or statistics from within a document did not render 
the source documents “used” such that they needed to be listed in the meeting minutes.  See 
OML 2014-129; OML Declination 3-23-22 (Masconomet Regional District School Committee). 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Laura Ortiz (via e-mail: ) 
David Potter, Chair, Pioneer Valley Performing Arts Charter Public School Board of 
Trustees (via e-mail:
 dpotter@pvpa.org) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
