===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
October 14, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 191 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY
  
 
Margaret Clark-Moroff 
Chair, Berkely Council on Aging  
 
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Clark-Moroff: 
 
This office received a complaint from Joan Blake on April 14, 2022,
1 alleging that the 
Berkely Council on Aging (the “Council”), and specifically its Chair Margaret Clark-Moroff,2 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with 
the Council on or about February 22, and the Chair responded on behalf of the Council by email 
sent on March 10. We understand the complaint to allege that 1) the Council did not hold 
meetings for which notices had been posted; 2) minutes for Council meetings are created by a 
staff member who does not attend the meetings but rather reviews recordings of meetings; and 3) 
the minutes for the Council’s January 11 meeting are inaccurate.
3 
 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination we reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaint; 
the Council’s response; the request for further review, including attached documents; the notice 
for and minutes and video recording
4 of the Council’s January 11 meeting; and notices for 
Council meetings scheduled for February 3, 7, and 9. 
  
 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2021, unless otherwise noted. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person throughout.  
3 We decline to review any allegations raised in the request for further review as they were not raised in a formal 
complaint filed with the Council. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(1); OML 2019-76; OML 2012-92. 
4 A recording of the Council’s January 11 meeting can be found at 
http://198.0.152.34/CablecastPublicSite/show/740?channel=1. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
 The Council posted notice for a meeting to be held on January 11. Included on the notice 
were two substantive topics “Paid Programs” and “Public input about programs.” The Council 
held its January 11 meeting as scheduled. The meeting lasted for approximately one and a half 
hours. During the course of the meeting, members of the Council and of the public discussed 
many topics including brown bag lunches; exercise programing, including the schedule, use, and 
cost of such programing; non-exercise programing such as lunches, breakfasts, and coffee hours; 
the loss of the Council’s director; the role of the director; the need to hire a new director and 
logistics for doing so; a formula grant received by the Council and use of the grant; receipt of 
donations; the Friends of the Council on Aging; utilizing volunteers and potential liability with 
respect thereto; and how best to approach the Board of Selectmen regarding hiring a new 
director. Throughout the meeting, although members of the public generally waited to be 
recognized before speaking, Council members and members of the public spoke freely in a 
conversational style, often interrupting each other and changing from one topic to another; the 
discussion became contentious at times.   
 
 The Council posted notices for meetings to be held on February 3, 7, and 9. The Council 
did not end up holding meetings on any of these dates. The Council then posted notice for a 
meeting to be held on February 10. This meeting was convened as scheduled.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
 To begin, we find no violation with respect to the allegations that the Council did not 
hold meetings. The Open Meeting Law does not specify when or how meetings may be canceled, 
nor does it prohibit the cancelation of posted meetings. Although we recommend as a best 
practice that a cancelation notice be posted as soon as possible so that the public will not attempt 
to attend a meeting which has been canceled, no such notice is required by the Open Meeting 
Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2017-100.
5 Additionally, to the extent the complaint 
alleges that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to hold a subsequent round 
table meeting as mentioned during the January 11 meeting, we find no violation. The Open 
Meeting Law applies when a public body holds a meeting but does not, in general, require that 
public bodies hold meetings. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
 
Likewise, we find no violation with respect to the allegation that Council meeting 
minutes 
are created by a municipal staff member who does not attend the meetings but rather 
reviews recordings of meetings after the fact. Although the Open Meeting Law requires public 
bodies to “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions,” 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a), it does not specify how minutes must be created or by whom and does not 
prohibit a staff member from creating minutes after reviewing an audio or video recording of the 
meeting to be memorialized. See OML 2014-34 n. 5; see also, OML 2018-154. 
 
Finally, we find that the minutes of the Council’s January 11 meeting are sufficient. As 
discussed above, the Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Minutes 
must include “the date, time and place [of the meeting], the members present or absent, a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
votes.” Id. When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for 
substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2013-64. By substantial 
compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a 
member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear 
understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106. A transcript is not required, and the 
minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented. See OML 2017-104; OML 
2016-40. 
 
The c
omplaint alleges that the minutes of the Council’s January 11 meeting are 
insufficient because “[m]ost of the comments and concerns of those attending were not in the 
minutes.” Additionally, the complaint alleges that the Complainant was misquoted in the 
minutes, explaining that,  
 
The minutes read “Joan Blake stated they need to get another phone line for  
volunteers[.]” This was not what I said and changes the  intent of my comment 
completely. I stated that I had talked extensively with the Office of Elder Affairs in 
planning for the hiring of a  Director. As part of that I stated that, at the time, they 
suggested I add another phone line so the Director could have a direct line and that 
there should be volunteers answering the main line. 
 
After reviewing the minutes and a video rec
 ording of the January 11 meeting, we find 
that the Council substantially complied with the requirement to provide an accurate and 
sufficiently detailed summary of the discussion that occurred during the meeting. With regard to 
the particular example raised in the complaint about the Complainant’s comments during the 
meeting about an additional phone line, we find that the minutes sufficiently capture the 
Complainant’s comments during the meeting. See OML 2019-136 (finding minutes sufficiently 
detailed with regard to a public comment portion of a meeting, where they summarized some of 
the remarks made by one speaker and did not reflect comments made by another speaker). The 
Complainant and members of the Council discussed the need for multiple phone lines, based in 
part on guidance from the Office of Elder Affairs, one that would be designated for the director, 
another that would be designated for confidential calls and messages, and a main line that would 
be answered by volunteers. The minutes state, “Joan Blake stated that they needed to get another 
phone line for the volunteers.” Although the minutes do not capture every nuance of the 
Complainant’s comment, we find that the minutes accurately summarize this discussion. Overall, 
although the minutes could have been more detailed, we find that the minutes include enough 
detail to meet the minimum requirements of the law. 
===PAGE 4===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Council.  
 
Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Joan Blake (via email: )  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
