===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
vvww.mass .gov/ago 
July 28, 2016 
OML 2016-99 
Holly A. Young, Senior Assistant 
Templeton Board of Selectmen 
160 Patriots Road 
PO Box 620 
East Templeton, MA 01438 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Young: 
This office received a complaint from Jeffrey Bennett dated July 5, alleging that the 
Templeton Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 12, and the Board responded 
by letter dated April 25. In his complaint, Mr. Bennett alleges that the Board held an improper 
meeting on April 11 because the Board proceeded with only two of its five members present, 
falling short of a quorum.2 
After reviewing the complaint, the Board's response, and the minutes for and recording 
of the April 11 meeting, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 
CMR 29.07(2)(a). We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
The Board is a five-member public body. On April 11, the Board held a meeting that was 
attended by four of the five members. During this meeting, the Board discussed the Town 
budget for Fiscal Year 2017. At that time. Selectman Doug Morrison recused himself from the 
discussions, apparently because of a conflict of interest. The discussion on the budget proceeded 
with the remaining three members of the Board, until the Board reached discussion of the budget 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 The complaint also mentions a second meeting at which the Board proceeded with less than a quorum, which was 
held on February 22. The Open Meeting Law directs complainants to "file a written complaint with the public body, 
setting forth the circumstances which constitute the alleged violation . . . within 30 days of the date of the alleged 
violation." G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged violation could not have been known at the time it occurred, then the 
complaint must be filed within 30 days of the date on which the alleged violation could reasonably have been 
discovered. 940 CMR 29.05(3). Because the complaint was filed more than 30 days after the February 22 meeting 
occurred and the alleged violation took place in an open meeting, and thus could have been known at the time it 
occurred, the allegations concerning that meeting are untimely and we decline to review them. 
Ct 
===PAGE 2===
for the library. At that time, Selectman Julie Richard recused herself because of a conflict of 
interest with respect to the library budget. After briefly discussing the "rule of necessity" with 
Town Administrator Robert Markel, Chairman John Columbus and Selectman Diane Haley 
Brooks determined that the rule allowed them to proceed with the budget discussion despite 
having less than a quorum present.3 Chairman Columbus and Selectman Haley Brooks approved 
the budget updates for the library director and the library staff, after which Selectman Richard 
returned for the remainder of the budget discussion. At the conclusion of the budget discussion. 
Selectmen Morrison returned for the remainder of the meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law defines "meeting," in relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 1 8. A 
"deliberation" in turn is defined, in relevant part, as "an oral or written communication through 
any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction." Id. A "quorum" is defined as "a simple majority of the 
members of the public body, unless otherwise provided in a general or special law, executive 
order or other authorizing provision." IcL 
The Board is comprised of five members, thus three members constitute a quorum. 
Therefore, the Board engages in deliberation only when three members communicate on public 
business within the Board's jurisdiction. Here, a portion of the budget discussion proceeded with 
only two of the five Board members present. Because only two members participated in that 
portion of the discussion, the Board did not deliberate and thus did not hold a "meeting" for the 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2013-106.4 The Open 
Meeting Law does not address the legitimacy of any action taken by a subquorum of a public 
body, only the procedures that must be followed when a quorum is present. As this 
determination concerns only compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we do not comment on 
whether action taken by a subquorum may violate any other laws or the public body's own 
policies. See OML 2013-162; OML 2013-106; OML 2012-47. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
3 The complaint also raised an issue of whether the Board properly invoked the "rule of necessity" at its April 11 
meeting. The rule of necessity is a common law rule of last resort that allows otherwise disqualified members to 
participate in a public body's discussion if their disqualification would deprive the body of the necessary number of 
members to take a vote on a matter that no other body has the authority to hear or determine. See Bos. Ret. Bd. v. 
Contributory Ret. Appeal Bd.. 441 Mass. 78, 85 (2004); Moran v. Sch. Comm of Littleton. 317 Mass. 591, 593-594 
(1945). The Open Meeting Law does not address the rule of necessity, and thus we decline to review allegations of 
improper invocation of the rule. For further guidance, the Board may wish to consult the Massachusetts State Ethics 
Commission. See Advisory 05-05: The Rule of Necessity, State Ethics Commission (Oct. 17, 2013), 
http://www.mass.gov/ethics/education-and-training-resources/educational-materials/advisories/advisory-05-05-rule-
of-necessity.html. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
cc: Jeffrey Bennett 
Templeton Board of Selectmen 
Sincerely 
y 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 