===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
July 27, 2012 
OML 2012 — 70 
Arthur Goldberg, Esq. 
Assistant City Solicitor 
Cambridge City Hall 
795 Mass. Avenue 
Cambridge, Ma 02139 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Assistant City Solicitor Goldberg: 
This office received a complaint from Scott Wachtler of the Cambridge Chronicle on or 
about October 17, 2011, alleging that the Cambridge City Council (the "Council"), and 
specifically City Clerk Margaret Drury, violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 1  
The complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about September 7, 2011, and the 
Council responded to the original complaint by letter dated September 27, 2011. In his 
complaint, the complainant alleges that the Council improperly refused to provide him with 
copies of executive session minutes relating to a lawsuit filed against the City of Cambridge (the 
"City") by Malvina Monteiro, claiming that their release would harm the City's litigating 
position. 
We reviewed the September 7, 2011 and October 17, 2011 complaints; the Council's 
September 27, 2011 response; email correspondence between the complainant and the City 
concerning his minutes request; a December 29, 2011 letter from former Mayor David Maher to 
the Council regarding the minutes at issue; a January 17, 2012 letter from you to the 
complainant, enclosing redacted minutes; a January 27, 2012 email from you to our office 
providing information about the status of certain litigation matters; a May 14, 2002 order from 
the Supervisor of Public Records related to the complainant's public records request for a 
settlement agreement between the City and plaintiffs Linda Stamper and Mary Wong; a redacted 
1  The complaint lists "City of Cambridge" as the public body that is the subject of the complaint. The City itself is 
not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. However, because the complaint was filed with the City 
Council and the Council provided a response, we treat the complaint as a complaint against the Council. 
Furthermore, we note that individuals who are not members of public bodies are not required to comply with the 
Open Meeting Law, therefore we decline to review the complaint against Ms. Drury, and only consider her actions 
to the extent they relate to the allegations against the Council. 
Co 
===PAGE 2===
settlement agreement with Ms. Wong and Ms. Stamper; and we spoke by telephone with you in 
December 2011, January 2012, and June 2012. 
Following our review, we fmd that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
withholding minutes from eight executive session meetings until certain litigation was resolved. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. 
In 1998, Malvina Monteiro filed a complaint with the Massachusetts Commission 
Against Discrimination against her employer, the City of Cambridge, alleging retaliation for 
raising concerns about discrimination. Monteiro subsequently filed an action in Superior Court 
alleging discrimination based on race and national origin, as well as retaliation. Following two 
trials, a jury found in her favor on the retaliation claim, and awarded her approximately $6.7 
million in damages, fees, and costs. Several appeals followed and, ultimately, on August 15, 
2011 the Appeals Court affirmed the judgment. On August 19, 2011, City Manager Robert 
Healy announced the City would not pursue any further appeal of the matter. 
Also on August 19, 2011, the complainant sent an email to the City's Public Information 
Officer, Ini Tomeu, as well as to City Clerk Margaret Drury and City Solicitor Donald Drisdell, 
requesting "access to and copies of City Council minutes for all Executive Session meetings 
related to the Malvina Monteiro case." In response, Drury sent an email to the complainant on 
August 31, 2011 stating that "the Mayor, as Chair of the City Council, has determined that the 
executive session minutes you request warrant continued non-disclosure at this time. Continued 
non-disclosure is warranted because publication of the executive session minutes may defeat the 
lawful purposes of those executive sessions in that the City's litigating position would be 
jeopardized by such disclosure." The Mayor, David Maher, his Chief of Staff, Lee Gianetti, and 
Assistant City Solicitor Arthur Goldberg were all copied on the email.2  On September 1, 2011, 
in response to a request for comment from the complainant, Gianetti emailed a statement from 
the Mayor. The statement noted, in part, that "[d]ue to the fact that there are two remaining 
plaintiffs in this case, the disclosure of the minutes may have a detrimental effect on the City's 
legal position with the remainder of the case." The statement went on to say that "[o]nce the 
case has been completely resolved the city will make all of the non-privileged portions of the 
meeting minutes public." On September 26, 2011, the Council voted in executive session to 
affirm the Mayor's decision to withhold the minutes. 
According to Assistant City Solicitor Goldberg, the related cases of two other plaintiffs, 
Mary Wong and Linda Stamper, went to mediation. A settlement agreement was reached with 
those plaintiffs on October 4, 2011.3  The settlement agreement stated that the City would pay 
the plaintiffs $1.1 million within ten days of the agreement's execution, and an additional $2.75 
million on or before January 15, 2012. In exchange, Ms. Stamper and Ms. Wong agreed to 
dismiss their lawsuits with prejudice within five days of that final payment. A stipulated 
dismissal was entered by the Superior Court on January 10, 2012. 
2  For purpose of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
3  A redacted version of the settlement agreement was publicly released following a May 14, 2012 order from the 
Supervisor of Public Records within the office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth. See SPR11/339. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
On December 29, 2011, Mayor Maher sent a letter to the Council stating that, at that 
time, he had determined that the executive session minutes concerning the Monteiro case could 
be released. His letter asked that this be announced at the next Council meeting, and that the 
minutes be forwarded to the Law Department for review, prior to release, of any Public Records 
Law exemptions and the attorney-client privilege. Maher's term as Mayor expired at the end of 
December 2011. 
According to Assistant City Solicitor Goldberg, the next Council meeting was held on 
January 9, 2012, and an announcement was made at that time regarding the Mayor's 
determination. On January 17, 2012, a letter was sent by Assistant City Solicitor Goldberg to the 
complainant enclosing the minutes of eight potentially responsive executive session meetings 
held between June 2008 and September 2011. The letter stated that "Whe enclosed minutes have 
been redacted based entirely on the attorney-client privilege." 
The Executive Session Minutes  
The minutes that were released in January 2012 all include the dates of the meetings and 
list the members present. Additional information about their content is summarized below. 
June 8, 2008 
The minutes state that the Council met in executive session "for the purpose of discussion 
[sic] litigation strategy related pending [sic] litigation of Monteiro et al v City of Cambridge." 
The Council entered executive session at 8:45 p.m., and adjourned just over an hour later. The 
redacted minutes that were released state only that Attorney Joan Lukey "provided an update on 
the trial of plaintiff Malvina Monteiro" and that no votes were taken. 
May 7, 2009  
The minutes state that the Council met in executive session "for the purpose of discussion 
of litigation strategy related to pending litigation of Monteiro et al v City of Cambridge." The 
Council entered executive session at 4 p.m., and adjourned just over an hour later. The redacted 
minutes that were released state only that Attorney Lukey "provided a brief summary of the 
history of the case," note that one of the Councilors left the meeting early, and note that no votes 
were taken. 
May 18, 2009  
The minutes state that the Council met in executive session "for the purpose of discussion 
of litigation strategy related to pending litigation of Monteiro et al v City of Cambridge." The 
Council entered executive session at 8:30 p.m., and adjourned just under an hour later. The 
minutes that were released do not appear to have been redacted. The minutes reflect that the 
discussion centered on whether or not the City should appeal a court judgment, as well as 
whether companion cases should be settled. No votes were taken. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
June 15, 2009 
The minutes state that the Council met in executive session "for the purpose of discussion 
of litigation strategy related to pending litigation of Monteiro et al v City of Cambridge." The 
Council entered executive session at 7:40 p.m., and adjourned at 9:24 p.m. The redacted minutes 
state that the City Manager was invited to provide an update, but requested that Attorney Lukey 
begin with a brief chronology of the case. Following Attorney Lukey's remarks, the Council 
continued its previous discussion about whether the City should appeal the judgment. The 
minutes summarize the various factors discussed by the Council in attempting to make this 
decision. No votes were taken. 
April 26, 2010  
The minutes state that the Council met in executive session "for the purpose of discussion 
of litigation strategy related to pending litigation of Monteiro et al v City of Cambridge." The 
Council entered executive session at 7:40 p.m., and adjourned at 9:25 p.m. The redacted minutes 
state that, once again, the City Manager was invited to provide an update, and Attorney Lukey 
then summarized what had happened in the litigation since the previous June. The minutes also 
note that two Councilors left the meeting early, and that no votes were taken. 
October 25, 2010 
The minutes state that the Council met in executive session "for the purpose of discussion 
of litigation strategy related to pending litigation of Monteiro et al v City of Cambridge." The 
Council entered executive session at 8:35 p.m., and adjourned approximately one half hour later. 
The entirety of these minutes was redacted with the exception of the notations that Mayor Maher 
called the meeting to order and that no votes were taken. 
August 19, 2011  
The minutes state that the Council met in executive session "for the purpose of discussion 
of litigation strategy related to the Massachusetts Appeals Court decision of August 15, 2011 
No.2010-P-1240 in the pending litigation of Monteiro et al v City of Cambridge." The Council 
entered executive session at 9:20 a.m., and adjourned one hour later. The minutes that were 
released do not appear to have been redacted. The City Manager reported on the Appeals 
Court's decision, and stated his belief that it was time to "end this litigation and move on." He 
then discussed the source of funds to pay the judgment and noted that it would not affect the tax 
rate or require the additional appropriation of tax dollars. The Council then discussed "ending all 
of the cases in this lawsuit" and the impact of the decision on the City Manager. No votes were 
taken. 
September 26, 2011  
The minutes state that the Council met in executive session "for the purpose of (1) 
discussion of whether to uphold the Mayor's decision that the Monteiro et al case is still pending 
such that disclosure of executive session minutes may have a detrimental effect on the City's 
legal position in the remainder of the case and therefore the reason for nondisclosure still 
pertains, and (2) an update on the remainder of the Monteiro et.al  [sic] case." The Council 
entered executive session at 7:25 p.m., and adjourned at 8:46 p.m. The redacted minutes omit 
4 
===PAGE 5===
the entirety of the discussion with the exception of the vote that was taken. Councilor Toomey 
moved to uphold the Mayor's decision to withhold the executive session minutes, and the motion 
passed on a roll call vote of 5 to 4. 
DISCUSSION 
There are ten purposes for which a public body may enter executive, or closed, session. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Executive session Purpose 3 allows a public body to enter executive 
session to "discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting 
may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the 
chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). Under the old Municipal Open Meeting Law, which 
was in effect at the time that six of the eight meetings at issue occurred, pubic bodies also were 
permitted to enter executive session to discuss litigation strategy if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on that body's litigating position. G.L. c. 39, § 23B(3) (repealed). 
The minutes of a properly held executive session "may be withheld from disclosure to the 
public in their entirety under subclause (a) of clause Twenty-sixth of section 7 of chapter 4, as 
long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer." 4  
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). Public bodies have discretion to enter executive session and to determine 
when the purpose for which the public body has entered executive session has concluded. $ee 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a); Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham Regional School Committee,  402 Mass. 179, 
182 (1988). However, the public body also bears the burden of justifying continued 
nondisclosure of executive session minutes. Foudy,  402 Mass. at 184. While the Open Meeting 
Law requires that a public body release executive session minutes once the executive session 
purpose has expired, a public body may still redact or withhold minutes subject to the Public 
Records Law, G.L. c. 4 § 7, or where discussions may be protected by the attorney/client 
privilege. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
Following our review, we fmd that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
withholding the minutes from these eight meetings until January 2012. The Council entered into 
executive session during each of the eight meetings at issue pursuant to Purpose 3, to discuss 
pending litigation matters. Although we are unable to review the redacted portions of the 
minutes,5  we have no reason to challenge the Council's assertion that its discussions with 
Counsel during these meetings had the potential to affect not only the Monteiro litigation, but 
also related litigation involving other plaintiffs making similar allegations. Furthermore, the 
unredacted portions of the May 18, 2009; June 15, 2009; and August 19, 2011 meetings show 
that at these meetings the Council discussed whether to settle related litigation, and whether to 
appeal the Monteiro decision, which would affect the other cases. Although the Council 
announced on August 19, 2011 that it would not appeal the Monteiro decision, the related 
4  Although most of the meetings at issue occurred prior to the enactment of the current version of the Open Meeting 
Law in July 2010, the request for minutes was made after it went into effect, thus we apply the current statute in our 
analysis. 
5  The Open Meeting Law authorizes the Attorney General to investigate a complaint alleging a violation of the law, 
and to request documents in the course of that investigation. However, the Attorney General may not require a 
public body to disclose "any documentary material which would be privileged." G.L. c. 30A, § 24(e). If our office 
is concerned that a privilege claim is not valid, and we believe that an Open Meeting Law violation has occurred, we 
may file an Open Meeting Law complaint in Superior Court and seek judicial review of that claim. See  G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(f). 
5 
===PAGE 6===
matters were not settled until October 4, 2011. Because the settlement agreement provided that 
the litigation would not be dismissed until after a final payment was made in January 2012, the 
Council was justified in withholding the minutes until that occurred. The litigation remained 
active until that date, therefore discussions by the Council about the merits of these and related 
cases and whether or not to settle them had the potential to effect its litigating position. 
Accordingly, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law by determining that 
the executive session purpose continued until January 2012, when all the terms of the settlement 
agreement had been performed. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Council. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this 
letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Amy L. Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Scott Wachtler, Cambridge Chronicle 
Jeffrey Pyle, Esq., Prince Lobel Tye LLP 
Cambridge City Council 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
6 