===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 1, 2017 
OML 2017-122 
Karen Whitley, Esq. 
Sheehan Phinney 
255 State Street, 5th Floor 
Boston, MA 02109 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Whitley: 
This office received a complaint from Paul Schlictman on June 19, alleging that the 
Mystic Valley Regional Charter School Board of Trustees (the "Board") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ IS-^S.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on 
or about May 22, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated June 13. In his 
complaint, Mr. Schlictman alleges that the Board convened in executive session on May 21 
for an improper purpose. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notice and open and executive session minutes of the Board's May 21 meeting. 
Finally, we spoke with Genevieve Nadeau, Chief of the Office of the Attorney General's Civil 
Rights Division, on July 18 and reviewed her May 19 letter to the school's Interim Director. 
We find the facts as follows. On May 15, the Civil Rights Division of the Office of 
the Attorney General contacted the Mystic Valley Regional Charter School (the "school") 
regarding a complaint that it had received about the school's enforcement of a hair/make-up 
policy. The school had also received complaints around that time from the NAACP, the Anti-
Defamation League, the ACLU of Massachusetts and other organizations regarding this 
policy. 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
On May 18, school officials met with Attorney General Maura Healey and 
representatives from her Civil Rights Division and the Massachusetts Department of 
Elementary and Secondary Education to discuss the legality of the school's hair/make-up 
policy. That same day, the Board posted notice of a meeting scheduled for Sunday, May 21, 
to discuss "potential litigation" in executive session. The next day, the Board revised its 
notice to indicate that the May 21 meeting was an emergency meeting. On May 19, the Civil 
Rights Division of the Office of the Attorney General issued a letter to the school reiterating 
its concern about the legality of the hair/make-up policy, including under both state law, G.L. 
c. 76, § 5, and federal law, 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000c & 2000d, which protect individuals against 
unlawful discrimination. Based on its concerns, the Civil Rights Division of the Office of the 
Attorney General advised the school to "immediately cease enforcing or imposing discipline" 
for violations of certain provisions of the policy during the pendency of its investigation. On 
May 21, the Board convened in executive session "to discuss concerns about potential 
litigation."2 Immediately following its closed door session, a school official announced to the 
media and members of the public in attendance that it had suspended its hair/make-up policy 
for the remainder of the school year in order to avoid litigation. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body may enter executive session for any of 
ten enumerated purposes, provided that it has first convened in an open session, that the chair 
states the purpose for the executive session and announces whether the open session will 
reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session, that a majority of members of the body 
have voted to go into executive session, and that the vote of each member is recorded by roll 
call and entered into the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, §§21 (a), (b). One executive session purpose 
allows a public body to enter executive session to "discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or 
litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) 
("Purpose 3"). 
The complaint alleges that the Board convened in executive session on May 21 for an 
improper purpose. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board's discussion concerned 
policy, rather than litigation strategy. In order to invoke Purpose 3, litigation must be pending 
or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. See Ferryman v. 
School Committee of Boston. 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2016-12.3 The 
executive session was specifically prompted by various complaints lodged against the school, 
including a discussion with, and subsequent letter from, the Civil Rights Division of the 
Office of the Attorney General, which unequivocally advised the school to "immediately 
2 We remind the Board that, when convening in executive session under Purpose 3, the chair must declare in 
open session that having the discussion in open session may have a detrimental effect on the Board's litigation 
position, See G.L, c, 30A, § 21(a)(3), 
3 Open Meeting Law determination letters may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www,mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
cease" enforcing the hair/make-up policy. In light of the circumstances that led to the 
meeting, we find that it was reasonable for the Board to conclude that its hair/make-up policy 
might be imminently challenged through litigation by any number of parties, including the 
Civil Rights Division of the Office of the Attorney General pursuant to G.L. c. 76, § 5 and 42 
U.S.C. §§ 2000c & 2000d. See OML 2017-87; 2016-162; OML 2012-76. Thus, a discussion 
about those imminent legal challenges necessarily involved the subject at issue—the 
hair/make-up policy. And, the Board's decision to suspend the hair/make-up policy during 
that discussion was a direct response to those threatened legal challenges. For those reasons, 
we find that the executive session concerned litigation strategy with respect to the contested 
hair/makeup policy and thus fit within the parameters of Purpose 3. Accordingly, the Board 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
cc: Paul Schlictman 
Mystic Valley Regional Charter School Board of Trustees 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 