===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 T EL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
 
August 6, 2020 
 
OML 2020 – 98 
 
Bruce A. Assad, Esq. 
16 Bedford Street, Suite 3A 
P.O. Box 1268 
Fall River, MA 02722 
 
By e-mail only: baalawfirm@aol.com 
 
 RE:        Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Assad: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on July 3, 2020, alleging that the 
Fall River School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on May 30, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated June 17, following an extension of time 
granted by our office. The complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to announce that four members of the Committee were participating in the meeting 
remotely. 
 
After reviewing the complaint, the Committee’s response, and the request for further 
review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a). 
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged. 
 
On March 10, Governor Charles Baker declared a state of emergency in response to the 
public health emergency created by the outbreak of the 2019 novel Coronavirus (“COVID-19”). 
See Exec. Order No. 591 (Mar. 10, 2020). On March 12, Governor Baker issued an executive 
order temporarily suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting Law during the state of 
emergency. See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”). The Executive Order temporarily suspends the 
requirements under the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law 
regulations that a quorum of a public body, including the chair, be physically present at the 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2020.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
meeting location and allows all members of a public body to participate in a meeting remotely. 
See OML 2020-82.2 All other provisions of the law and regulations regarding remote 
participation remain in effect, including the requirement that “[a]t the start of the meeting, the 
chair shall announce the name of any member who will be participating remotely. This 
information shall also be recorded in the meeting minutes.” 940 CMR 29.10(7)(b). 
 
On May 27, the Committee held a meeting in which four of the seven members 
participated remotely. However, the Committee failed to announce the names of the four 
members who were participating remotely at the beginning of the meeting. Accordingly, because 
the Committee failed to announce the names of the members who were participating remotely 
during the May 27 meeting, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. See 
OML 2013-112. We acknowledge the Committee’s efforts to comply with this procedural 
requirement at its subsequent meetings and commend the Committee’s commitment to ensure 
future compliance with the law.     
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and 
we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
law. 
  
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
  
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
   
Assisted by:  Alina Cathcart, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government  
cc:       Patrick Higgins – By e-mail only:  
 Fall River School Committee – By e-mail only : schoolcommittee@fallriverschools.org 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must 
be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
