===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
March 9, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 29 
 
Jaime Rogers 
Board of Trustees  
Whelden Memorial Library  
2401 Meetinghouse Way 
P.O. Box 147 
West Barnstable, MA 02668 
 
By email only: wmltrustees@gmail.com 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Jaime Rogers: 
 
This office received a complaint from Lisa Hendrickson on July 27, 2025, alleging that 
the West Barnstable Whelden Library Board of Trustees (the “Board”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or 
about June 6 and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated June 11.  The complaint 
alleges that the Board failed to post notice of its meetings and failed to open its meetings to the 
public.  In its response, the Board argues that it is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting 
Law. 
 
 We appreciate the parties’ patience as we reviewed this matter.  Based upon the 
information we reviewed in this matter, we find that the Board is not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law.
2  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Board’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review.  We also reviewed materials available online, including a history of the Whelden 
Memorial Library (“the Library”) available on its website, and an explanation of the Town of 
Barnstable’s relationship to town public libraries, available on the Town’s website.
3  We also 
reviewed information about the Library obtained from the Massachusetts Board of Library 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2025. 
2 As is the case with all determinations issued by the Division of Open Government, our finding here is based on 
and limited to the specific facts presented in this case. 
3 These websites were accessed at https://www.wheldenlibrary.org/info/history/#gsc.tab=0 and 
https://barnstable.gov/Departments/CommunityServices/pageview.asp?file=Divisions%5CTown-
Libraries.html&title=Town%20Libraries&exp=Divisions, respectively. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Commissioners.  Additionally, we reviewed financial information available in the Attorney 
General’s Public Charities Filing Database.4  Finally, we communicated with Library Director 
Andrea Figaratto, via email.   
 
FACTS 
 
Based upon the information that we reviewed, we find the facts as follows.  The Whelden 
Memorial Library is one of seven independent cooperating libraries in the Town of Barnstable 
and is incorporated as a non-profit institution.  It is distinguishable from libraries established by a 
town or city, or by state legislation.5  It traces its origins to two bookcases and books which Mrs. 
George Linder6 donated to the grammar school where her friend, Martha Lee Whelden, was a 
teacher in the 1880s.  The Linder Library Association was formed in 1899.  As the collection of 
books grew, volunteers built a library building on town-owned land in 1905.  A town report of 
1913 shows that the Linder Library Association paid rent of $1.00 to the Town of Barnstable that 
year.  In 1923, upon receipt of a large bequest following the deaths of Martha Whelden and her 
sisters, the library was renamed the Whelden Memorial Library.  Additions were constructed in 
1968 and 1989.  To this day, the library building is owned by the non-profit corporation, not by 
the Town of Barnstable. 
 
According to the Town of Barnstable website, the town’s seven libraries are 
“independent, private, non-profit corporations or associations that contract with the Town to 
provide public library services to the Town of Barnstable.”  The seven libraries “promote 
lifelong learning and enrichment by offering free access to library materials and services.”  Each 
has its own board of trustees.  In the 1960s, the Town began to appropriate funds to the seven 
libraries for books and other items.  A “Town Library Committee” was formally established in or 
about 1967 as an advisory body to help coordinate the distribution of Town grant funding to the 
seven libraries.  The Committee did not oversee or govern the seven boards of trustees.  The 
Committee became inactive in or around 2016 and has been dissolved.  The seven library 
directors now collaborate on distribution of town funding based on an agreed-upon formula.  The 
Town has no administrative oversight of the seven libraries’ operations or management. 
 
The Library’s bylaws state that the “object of this corporation shall be to maintain a free 
public library for the use of all residents of the Village of West Barnstable, and any resident of 
any other community within the Commonwealth who holds a library card from any public 
library, and other users at librarian’s discretion.”  The Library’s proclaimed mission is to “serve 
West Barnstable Village by providing popular reading materials, reference resources for 
independent and formal learning, and electronic access to the information network.”  The Library 
is certified by the Massachusetts Board of Library Commissioners (“MBLC”).  Libraries 
certified by the MBLC receive reciprocal library services from other certified libraries, among 
other benefits.  The Library also “serves the Village as a meeting place and a forum for civic and 
cultural events.”  Pursuant to its contract with the town (renewed annually), the Library provides 
 
4 The database is accessible at https://www.mass.gov/info-details/search-public-charities-filings.  
5 See, e.g., G.L. c. 78, § 7 (providing that a “town may establish and maintain public libraries for its inhabitants 
under regulations prescribed by the city council or by the town and may receive, hold and manage any gift, bequest 
or devise therefor.”) 
6 Unfortunately, our brief online search did not reveal Mrs. Linder’s first name. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
books, e-books, music and other traditional library resources in consideration of grant funds 
appropriated by the Town.  The contract requires certain record keeping on the part of the 
Library and also requires that the Library provide a report of financial audit to the Town.   
 
The Board is comprised of nine elected trustees, as well as the officers of the corporation, 
to wit, the president, vice president, treasurer and secretary.  Trustees are elected at the 
corporation’s annual meeting from a slate presented by the Board’s nominating committee.  The 
officers also are elected annually for one-year terms.  All residents of voting age of the Village of 
West Barnstable are entitled to vote at meetings of the corporation, according to the Library’s 
bylaws.  Among other powers, the Board makes rules and regulations regarding the use of the 
library and its property, makes contracts “in connection with the management and upkeep of the 
library and its property,” and hires the director and any other employees deemed necessary.   
 
On May 15, the complainant went to the West Barnstable Fire Station to attend the 
Board’s monthly meeting.  She was told that the meeting was closed to the public and was asked 
to leave.
7  The complainant alleges that exclusion from the meeting was in violation of the Open 
Meeting Law and the corporation’s bylaws.  The complaint also alleges that the Board does not 
post notice of meetings or maintain minutes in accordance with the Open Meeting Law.  Finally, 
the complainant alleges that the Board has been operating with fewer members than what is 
required by its bylaws. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law defines a “public body” as any “multiple-member board, 
commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any 
county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.   
 
To determine whether a multiple-member entity is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, there are three factors we consider: 
 
1. The entity must be “within” government and not excluded from the definition of 
“public body;” 
2. The entity must be a “body” empowered to act collectively; and 
3.  The entity must serve a “public purpose.” 
 
See OML 2017-118; OML 2016-102; OML 2012-20; OML 2011-42; OML 2010-1.8   
 
 The Whelden Memorial Library is not a governmental entity.  Even when an entity is not 
clearly placed within government by law, however, it may still be “within” government if it 
meets three elements: i) the government played a significant role in creating or structuring the 
entity, ii) the government has control over the entity, and iii) the entity primarily performs an 
 
7 Notwithstanding its position that it is not a public body, the Library maintains that members of the public may 
attend their meetings and that the complainant was asked to leave the meeting because she was being disruptive.   
8 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
essentially governmental function.  See OML 2025-32; OML 2010-1; see also Dist. Attorney for 
N. Dist. v. Bd. of Trustees of Leonard Morse Hosp., 389 Mass. 729 (1983).  If an entity fails 
even one of the elements that comprise the first factor, then we will find that it is not clearly 
placed within government and it is not a public body.  See OML 2025-163 (finding that 
Plymouth Regional Economic Development Foundation, whose purpose was to aid in the 
economic development of the Town of Plymouth among other things was not “within” 
government where the Town did not play a significant role in creating or structuring the 
Foundation and that the Town does not have control over the Foundation); OML 2025-32 
(finding that the Malden Community Fund Committee was not “within” government where it 
met the first two elements of the first factor but failed the third).   
 
Here, the Whelden Memorial Library fails to meet the first element of the first factor.  
The government did not play a significant role in creating or structuring the Whelden Memorial 
Library.  Rather, the Whelden Memorial Library came about organically and was later 
incorporated as a non-profit corporation.  It is true that the Whelden Memorial Library has a 
close relationship with both the Town of Barnstable and the Massachusetts Board of Library 
Commissioners, a state agency.  It receives substantial funding from government sources, 
complies with certification requirements, and reports to both the Town and the MBLC.  None of 
these considerations neutralize the Library’s non-governmental origin, however.  See OML 
2025-163 (“Finally, while the Memoranda of Understanding may speak to a close relationship 
between the Town and the Foundation, they too are insufficient to show that the Town played a 
role in creating or structuring the Foundation or that the Town exercises control over the 
Foundation.”); OML 2025-48 (finding that Arlington Affordable Housing Overlay Working 
Group was not a public body where it was formed by private residents without being given a 
charge or vested with authority by any person or entity related to the town.); OML 2015-34 
(finding that Logan Airport Community Advisory Committee was not a public body where the 
government played no role in creating or structuring it and it was not controlled by the 
government); OML 2015-108 (250 Anniversary Committee is not a public body where it was not 
created by law or by a town entity or official and is not under the control of the Town or the 
Board of Selectmen, among other reasons).  The complainant highlights the public funding 
received by the Whelden Memorial Library.  However, we note that receipt of public funds alone 
does not make an entity a public body.  See OML 2024-210; OML 2016-83.
9  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board is not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law. 
 
  
 
9 To the extent that the complainant alleges that the Library violated its own bylaws, we decline to review such 
allegations.  The Division of Open Government enforces the Open Meeting Law only and takes no position relative 
to the Board’s conformance with other laws or rules. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Lisa Hendricks (via email: ) 
 Ann Quirk, West Barnstable Town Clerk (via email: ann.quirk@town.barnstable.ma.us) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
