===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 30, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 140 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Stephen Bannon  
Chair, Great Barrington Selectboard 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Bannon: 
This office received a complaint from Michael Kernan on April 10, 2020,1 alleging that 
the Great Barrington Selectboard (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. Mr. Kernan’s complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 12, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated February 25. The complaint alleges that 1) the 
Board failed to properly post notice 48 hours in advance of its January 13 meeting, 2) that the 
meeting notice for the January 13 meeting did not contain the date and time the notice was 
posted, and 3) notice describing the Town’s website as its official notice posting location was not 
properly posted.2     
 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to comply with the 
requirement that a notice describing the municipal website as the Town’s official notice posting 
location be conspicuously visible to the public at all hours on or adjacent to the main and 
handicapped accessible entrances to the municipal building in which the clerk’s office is located. 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s 
response, the request for further review, the notice for the Board’s January 13 meeting, the 
 
1 All dates in this determination are in 2020, unless otherwise stated.  
2 The complaint notes that the meeting packet for the Board’s January 13 meeting was not posted 48 hours in 
advance of the meeting. It is unclear if this represents an additional allegation or is included as evidence related to 
the allegation that the meeting notice did not include the date and time it was posted. If this is an additional 
allegation, we note that the Open Meeting Law does not require that meeting packets be posted or provided to the 
public in advance of a meeting; therefore, even if true, this allegation does not constitute a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Town’s website, and additional materials submitted by the Board and the Complainant. We also 
communicated with the Complainant and with the Great Barrington Town Manager by email.  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. At its December 9, 2019, meeting, the Board voted to adopt 
the Town’s website as its official notice posting location. On December 17, 2019, the Town 
informed our office that it had adopted its website, www.townofgb.org, as its official notice 
posting location. Thereafter, the Town posted notices stating, “Effective January 1, 2020, the 
Town’s 24 hour agenda posting site is the Town’s website (www.townofgb.org).” These notices 
were posted on a bulletin board near the handicapped accessible entrance to Town Hall and 
behind a window in the front door to Town Hall. At some point during the holiday season, the 
Town placed two large wreaths over the windows in the front door of Town Hall, thus obscuring 
the notice posted at that location. 
 
On January 9 at 3:30 p.m. the Board posted notice to the Town’s website for its January 
13 meeting to be held at 5:30 p.m. The page of the Town’s website containing the notice 
included the date and time the notice was posted to the website.3    
    
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice of a meeting at least 48 
hours in advance of the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The date and time a meeting notice is 
posted must “be conspicuously recorded thereon or therewith.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(d). For local 
public bodies, the Open Meeting Law requires that the municipal clerk post notice of meetings in 
a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on the municipal building in which 
the clerk's office is located. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c). However, the Open Meeting Law also provides 
that “[t]he attorney general may prescribe or approve alternative methods of notice where the 
attorney general determines the alternative methods will afford more effective notice to the 
public.” Pursuant to the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations, after taking certain 
procedural steps, a “municipality may adopt the municipal website as the official method of 
notice posting.” 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b). When a municipality adopts its website as its official 
notice posting location, “a description of the website as the notice posting method, including 
directions on how to locate notices on the website, shall be posted in a manner conspicuously 
visible to the public at all hours on or adjacent to the main and handicapped accessible entrances 
to the municipal building in which the clerk’s office is located.” 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b)(2).  
 
 
3 The page of the Town’s website containing the meeting notice also contains the meeting packet which was posted 
on January 10 at 5:11 p.m. and was later revised twice on February 7. The page notes that the meeting packets was 
revised twice on February 7, and also indicates that the meeting notice was revised on February 7. The Complainant 
states that this is evidence that the meeting notice was not created until February 7. In subsequent communications 
the Town Manager explained that the January 13 meeting notice was never revised and that only the meeting packet 
was revised. We credit this account and note that so long as the notice was originally posted in compliance with the 
48-hour requirement, if it were later revised this would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law. See 940 
CMR 29.03(1)(d) (contemplating that a public body might choose to amend its meeting notice after the original 
posting).  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 First, we find that the Board posted notice for its January 13 meeting to the Town’s 
website, which is the official notice posting location, more than 48 hours in advance of the 
meeting, and therefore did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We understand that the 
Complainant requested that meeting notices continue to be posted to a bulletin board outside of 
Town Hall. Although the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s regulations do not 
prohibit a public body from posting meeting notices in multiple locations, a municipality may 
only have one official notice posting location and if it has adopted its website as its notice 
posting location, then that is the official location for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. 940 
CMR 29.03(2)(b)(3) & (c). 
 
 Second, we find that the date and time the January 13 meeting notice was posted were 
conspicuously recorded with the notice where they were included on the website page containing 
the notice. The Board explained that the Town’s website automatically date and time stamps 
each meeting notice as it is posted. Indeed, a review of the Town’s website shows that the page 
containing the January 13 meeting notice included the date and time the notice was posted. We 
have said that where the date and time of posting is included on the website accompanying the 
notice, this satisfies the requirement that the date and time of posting be included on or with the 
notice. See OML 2018-53.4  
 
 Finally, we find that Board violated the Law when wreaths obstructed the windows of the 
front door to Town Hall where the notice describing the website as the Town’s official notice 
posting location was posted. Notice describing the Town’s website as the official notice posting 
location must be “posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours on or 
adjacent to the main and handicapped accessible entrances to the municipal building in which the 
clerk’s office is located.” 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b)(2). Here, where the notice was not visible to the 
public at all hours at both the main and handicapped accessible entrance because it was 
obstructed by a wreath during the holiday season, we find the Board did not comply with this 
requirement.5   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to comply with the requirement that a notice describing the municipal website as the 
Town’s official notice posting location be conspicuously visible to the public at all hours on or 
adjacent to the main and handicapped accessible entrances to the municipal building in which the 
clerk’s office is located. We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the 
other ways alleged. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Law’s 
requirements and note that future similar violations may be considered evidence of an intent to 
violate the law.  
 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 We acknowledge that the Board itself likely did not post the notice informing the public of the official notice 
posting location, nor hang the holiday wreaths that obstructed the notice; however, individual public bodies 
ultimately are responsible for complying with the Open Meeting Law.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Michael Kernan (via e-mail:  
 Mark Pruhenski, Great Barrington Town Manager (via e-mail: 
) 
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
