===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
February 14, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 15 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Denise M. Dembkoski 
Town Administrator for the Town of Stow 
townadministrator@stow-ma.gov 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Administrator Dembkoski: 
 
This office received a complaint from Ryan Boyd on December 29, 2024,1 alleging that 
the Stow Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about October 29, and you responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated November 13. The complaint alleges that the Board 
improperly deliberated outside of a posted meeting.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint; the 
Board’s response, along with attachments thereto including minutes of the Board’s October 1 
meeting; and the request for further review. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all deliberations of a public body occur during a 
properly noticed meeting that, unless properly convened in executive session, is open to the 
public. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(a)-(b), 21.2 On October 1 the Board convened a meeting for 
the purposes of hearing a grievance filed by the Complainant and holding a disciplinary hearing 
involving the Complainant. Ultimately, the Board voted to deny the Complainant’s grievance 
and to terminate the Complainant’s employment as a call firefighter and call Lieutenant.  
 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Complainant alleges in the complaint that, “Based on my information and belief, a 
quorum of the Board of Selectpersons deliberated about my case prior to a public hearing during 
which I was terminated.” The Complainant continues, “My belief has been formed based upon 
remarks made about me attributable to board members. The reasons given for my termination 
were based on claimed but untrue facts.” The complaint does not identify any particular 
statement that forms the basis of the Complainant’s belief that a quorum of the Board deliberated 
outside of a noticed meeting, nor does it present any other facts supporting this allegation. In the 
request for further review the Complainant asserts that the Town’s legal counsel told the 
Complainant’s legal counsel that the Complainant was “not liked” by the Board. The 
Complainant then asserts that, because he had not had any interactions with the Board in the five 
and a half years prior to his disciplinary hearing, “it is more probable than not, that the statement 
made [by the Town’s legal counsel] originated from deliberations of a quorum of the [Board] 
outside of a Public Meeting.”  
 
The Board denies any violation of the Open Meeting Law and specifically asserts that no 
member of the Board discussed with any other member of the Board the Complainant or the 
investigation at issue in the disciplinary hearing outside of the October 1 meeting. Absent 
sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s account of the facts. See OML 
2023-121; OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141; see also LaPointe v. License Bd. of Worcester, 389 
Mass. 454 (1983) (“There is every presumption in favor of the honesty and sufficiency of the 
motives actuating public officers in actions ostensibly taken for the general welfare.”). 3 
Furthermore, we have explained on many occasions that mere speculation or conjecture 
regarding deliberation outside of a posted meeting, without factual support, is insufficient to 
support a complaint’s allegations. See, e.g., OML 2024-108; OML 2024-91; OML 2024-14; 
OML 2023-242; OML 2014-114; OML 2012-59; see also G.L. c. 30A, § 24(a) (“Whenever the 
attorney general has reasonable cause to believe that a person, including any public body . . . has 
violated the open meeting law, the attorney general may conduct an investigation to ascertain 
whether in fact such person has violated the open meeting law.”). Finally, we have explained 
that agreement without substantive discussion among public body members or the lack of 
substantive discussion prior to a vote is insufficient to support the inference that those members 
deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. See OML 2024-154; OML 2017-125; OML 2017-93; 
OML 2013-128. As there is no evidence that members of the Board deliberated outside of a 
meeting, we find no violation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
cc: Stow Select Board (via email: selectboard@stow-ma.gov)  
 Linda E. Hathaway, Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@stow-ma.gov) 
Ryan Boyd (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
