===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
September 7, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 120 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Gary Howayeck, Esq. 
Assistant Corporation Counsel 
City of Fall River 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Howayeck: 
This office received a pair of complaints from Patrick Higgins on December 10, 2020, 
and December 18, 2020, alleging that the Fall River City Council and Fall River Board of 
Assessors (the “Council” and the “Board,” respectively) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with both the Council and the Board on 
November 18. The Council responded by letter dated December 10 and the Board responded by 
letter dated December 15.1 In the complaint filed with the Council, Mr. Higgins alleges that the 
Council violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to sufficiently discuss an October 27 Open 
Meeting Law complaint, and by holding a joint meeting with the Board on November 17 without 
posting notice. Mr. Higgins similarly alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to sufficiently discuss a November 5 Open Meeting Law complaint, and by holding a 
joint meeting with the Council on November 17, without posting notice.2 
Following our review, we find that neither the Council nor the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law with respect to the allegations regarding the discussion of prior Open Meeting Law 
complaints. We do, however find that the Board, only, violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to post notice for the November 17 joint meeting with the Council. In reaching this 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 Mr. Higgins also alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to announce the name of each 
member who was participating in the December 16 meeting remotely. Mr. Higgins has since withdrawn this 
allegation after we addressed a similar issue, and found no violation, in OML 2020-168. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Council’s and Board’s responses to the 
complaints, and the complainant’s requests for further review. We also reviewed meeting 
notices, meeting minutes and video recordings of the Board’s and Council’s November 17 
meetings. Finally, we emailed with Attorney Howayeck on several occasions in July of 2021.3  
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On November 13, the Board posted notice for a meeting to 
take place at 4:00 p.m. on November 17. Among other topics, the Board listed two items, “5. 
Open Meeting Law complaint from Patrick Higgins dated 11/5/2020,” and “6. Discussion of 
Fiscal Year 2021 Tax Classifications.” Also on November 13, the Council posted notice for a 
meeting to take place at 5:55 p.m. on November 17. Amongst others, the Council’s meeting 
notice contained two items “2. Adoption of the percentage of the local tax levy to be borne by 
each class of property for Fiscal Year 2021,” and “21. Open Meeting Law Complaint from 
Patrick Higgins re: alleged violation by the City Council President on October 27, 2020.” Neither 
meeting notice indicated that a joint meeting of the two bodies would take place during the 
Council’s evening meeting.  
On November 17, the Board and the Council held two separate meetings that were each 
livestreamed. The Board met at 4:00 pm and discussed a variety of topics, one of which was Mr. 
Higgin’s November 5 Open Meeting Law complaint, which the Board voted to refer to legal 
counsel for a response without discussion. Specifically, the Board did not address the merits of 
the complaint, nor verbally identify when and by whom the complaint was filed.4  
The Board then recessed around 4:30 p.m., stating that the Board would reconvene during 
the Council’s later meeting to discuss Fiscal Year 2021 tax classifications with the Council. The 
Council met at 5:55 p.m. that evening and was joined by the Board for a portion of that meeting 
to discuss tax classifications.5  
The remote access instructions contained on the meeting notices for the public to view 
the meetings were different for the two meetings. The notice for the Board’s meeting stated that 
the meeting could be viewed on YouTube at “YouTube.com/FallRiverGovernmentTV,” whereas 
the notice for the Council’s meeting stated that the meeting could be viewed on the Fall River 
Government Television website, “www.frgtv.frgtv.us/live.” Thus, the livestreams were only 
accessible to the public via separate links and a member of the public who watched the 4:00 p.m. 
meeting would have had to open a new livestream to follow the second part of the Board’s 
discussion, which took place jointly with the Council.  
After the joint portion of its meeting with the Board, the Council addressed Mr. Higgin’s 
October 27 Open Meeting Law complaint. After briefly describing the complaint as being filed 
by Patrick Higgins about an alleged violation by the City Council President, the Council voted to 
refer the complaint to legal counsel. The Council then voted by roll call to refer the complaint to 
legal counsel for a response.  
 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.  
4 A recording of the Board’s meeting can be found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wQFTmtYw1oo 
5 A recording of the Council’s meeting can be found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YnKLH3P69Os 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Board and Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law by voting to refer Open 
Meeting Law complaints to legal counsel rather than discussing their substance.  
The Open Meeting Law requires that, unless an extension has been granted by the 
Attorney General, within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, a 
public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; 
and send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken. 940 CMR 
29.05(5). The public body must also send the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a 
description of any remedial action taken, when the response is sent to the complainant. Id. A 
public body may delegate the responsibility for responding to an Open Meeting Law complaint 
to its legal counsel; however, the public body must still meet to consider and refer all complaints. 
See OML 2020-164 (a public body may review a complaint during a meeting and refer to a 
designee to respond, or a designee may receive and draft a response to the complaint for the 
public body to approve during a meeting, but a public body may not remove itself entirely from 
the process); OML 2017-197; OML 2017-148 (“That the Board may have chosen to refer the 
complaint rather than discuss its substance is the Board’s prerogative.”).6 The Open Meeting 
Law does not require a public body to engage in a substantive discussion of the the merits of 
each complaint. See OML 2020-38; See OML 2018-134. 
Here, during its November 17 meeting, the Board voted to delegate responsibility for 
responding to Mr. Higgin’s November 5 complaint to legal counsel, though it did not discuss the 
merits or details of the complaint. During the Council’s November 17 meeting, after briefly 
describing the complaint as being filed by Patrick Higgins about an alleged violation by the City 
Council President, the Council voted to refer the complaint to legal counsel. We have previously 
explained that referring a complaint to legal counsel rather than discussing its substance is 
permissible, and we therefore find that neither the Board nor the Council violated the Open 
Meeting Law in this respect.  
2. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law by joining the Council’s 5:55 p.m. meeting on 
November 17 without posting notice.  
The Open Meeting Law states that a public body “shall post notice of every meeting at 
least 48 hours prior to such meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b). When two public bodies contemplate a joint meeting, they may either post a single 
joint notice that clearly indicates that both public bodies will meet together, or they may each 
post their own notice for the joint meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2020-9; OML 2016-
117; OML 2021-69.  
Here, the Board posted notice of its own 4:00 p.m. meeting for November 17, but did not 
post notice of its joint meeting with the Council during the Council’s 5:55 p.m. meeting that 
same evening. The Board’s legal counsel has confirmed that members of the public could only 
access the Board’s individual meeting, which began at 4:00 p.m. and “recessed” at 4:30 p.m., 
and its joint meeting with the Council, which began at 5:55 p.m., from two different links to two 
 
6 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
different livestreams. A member of the public could not merely keep the Board’s original 
livestream playing in order to see the resumption of the Board’s discussion when the Council 
convened. We therefore conclude that the Board held two separate meetings on November 17, 
with approximately an hour and a half between them, and did not post notice for the second 
meeting. Because the Board failed to post notice of its November 17 joint meeting with the 
Council 48 hours in advance of the meeting, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law. 
On the other hand, we find that the Council properly posted notice of its November 17 
meeting in accordance with G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b) and therefore did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  
  CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
holding a meeting on November 17 without posting notice. We find that the Board did not 
violate the Law in the other way alleged, and that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and 
caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office, the 
Board, or the Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have 
any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by Alexis Kenney, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government.  
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via e-mail:  
 Fall River City Council and Fall River Board of Assessors c/o City Clerk (via e-mail: 
 ) 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 