===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
December 19, 2014 
OML 2014-151 
Derek W. Heim, Chair 
Swansea Recreation Commission 
P.O. Box 161 
Swansea, MA 02777 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Heim; 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins, dated October 10, alleging that the 
Swansea Recreation Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint specifically alleges that during the Commission's 
September 30 meeting, the Commission entered into executive session for an improper purpose, 
namely to conduct employee evaluations. The complaint was filed with the Commission on 
October 1. The Commission responded by letter dated October 2. 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
meeting in executive session for an improper purpose during its September 30 meeting, and by 
failing to follow the proper procedure for entering into executive session on that date. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Commission, the 
Commission's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office. Additionally, 
we reviewed the notice for, and open and executive session minutes of, the Commission's 
September 30 meeting. 
FACTS 
We find the facts to be as follows. The notice for the Commission's September 30 
meeting listed a topic for executive session as, "Purpose: Employee Evaluations." During the 
meeting, the Commission entered into executive session. The minutes of the meeting do not 
state a statutory purpose for the executive session, nor do they reflect any vote to enter into 
executive session. The Commission has not publicly released the minutes of the executive 
session, so we do not recount their content in detail here. Flowever, during the executive session. 
1 All dates refer to the year 2014. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
the Commission discussed two written employee evaluations with the employees present, one at 
a time. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body may enter executive session for any of ten 
enumerated purposes, provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session and the vote of each member is 
recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)-(b). Before entering 
the executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive session, stating all 
subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session 
was called, and the chair must publicly announce whether the open session will reconvene at the 
conclusion of the executive session. Id. Among the ten enumerated purposes for executive 
session is G.L. c. BOA, § 21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"), which allows a public body to enter executive 
session to "discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than 
professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or 
complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (emphasis added). 
During the Commission's September 30 executive session, the Commission discussed 
written evaluations with two employees and discussed their job performance. The Commission 
did not discuss either of the employees' reputation or character, nor was the meeting disciplinary. 
The entire executive session was a discussion of professional competence and performance, and 
thus it was not appropriate for executive session. See OML 2011-34; OML 2011-24. 
Discussions with both employees should have occurred in open session. The Commission also 
failed to properly enter into executive session. The minutes do not reflect a roll call vote to enter 
into executive session, nor did the Chair state which of the ten executive session purposes the 
Commission sought to invoke to justify the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21 (b)(2),(3). 
Accordingly, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law and may not continue 
to withhold the minutes of the September 30 executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f) 
(minutes of an executive session may be withheld from disclosure to the public as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of an executive session, provided that the executive 
session was held in compliance with the Open Meeting Law); OML 2014-42; OML 2014-30; 
OML 2014-17. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law during its September 30 
meeting by meeting in executive session for an improper purpose, and by failing to follow the 
proper procedure for entering into executive session. We order the following: 
2 Open Meeting Law detenninations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeetine. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
1. Immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law; we caution the 
Commission that a similar future violation may be considered evidence of an intentional 
violation of the Law. 
2. Publicly release the minutes of the Commission's September 30 executive session, 
without redaction. This must occur at a meeting within thirty (30) days of the 
Commission's receipt of this letter. 
3. Review by each member of the Commission of the Attorney General's training video on 
executive sessions, available at the Attorney General's website 
(www.mass.gov/ago/opemneeting). Each member must certify, using the attached form, 
his or her compliance with this order within 30 days following the Commission's receipt 
of this determination. 
We now consider this matter closed. This determination does not address any other 
complaints that may be pending before this office or the Commission. Please feel free to contact 
our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Swansea Recreation Commission 
Patrick Higgins 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. BOA, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Certification of Compliance with Order 
I, , hereby certify that I have read the Attorney General's 
(print name) 
determination number OML 2014-151 and, pursuant to the order therein, 1 have reviewed the 
training video on executive session, available at the Attorney General's website. 
Member, Swansea Recreation Commission Date 
4 