===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 19, 2024 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Thomas W. McEnaney, Esq. 
KP Law 
tmcenaney@k-plaw.com 
 
Jared M. Collins, Esq. 
KP Law 
JCollins@k-plaw.com 
 
 
 RE: Reconsideration of OML 2024-135  
 
 
Dear Attorneys McEnaney and Collins: 
 
On July 25, 2024, our office received a request from Attorney McEnaney that our office 
reconsider our Open Meeting Law determination, OML 2024-135, which was issued on July 17, 
2024. This determination resolved a complaint filed by Kevin Wood which alleged that the 
Georgetown Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an 
insufficiently specific notice for its December 11, 2023, executive session.  
 
In OML 2024-135, we found that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law where the 
notice for its December 11, 2023, executive session cited to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7) (“Purpose 
7”)
1 but did not also cite to the law requiring secrecy, as public bodies typically must do. In 
OML 2024-135 we also noted our concern, based on an in camera review of the draft minutes of 
the December 11, 2023, executive session, that the discussion held may not have been proper for 
executive session. Finally, we noted our concern that the draft minutes provided to our office 
were not sufficient to comply with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law where they did 
not summarize the discussions held.  
 
 
1 Purpose 7 allows a public body to convene in executive session “to comply with, or act under the authority of, any 
general or special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7). In most circumstances, a public 
body is required to cite to the specific law or grant-in-aid requirement that requires confidentiality or 
requires the public body to meet behind closed doors. See OML 2011-34 (“Because the Board did not provide any 
law or grant-in-aid requirement to justify their executive session under Purpose 7, it was not appropriate for the 
Board to employ Purpose 7.”); OML 2015-55; OML 2023-207. 
===PAGE 2===
 
2 
 
There is no statutory right to reconsideration by the Office of the Attorney General of an 
Open Meeting Law determination. While the Division of Open Government generally will not 
reconsider past determinations, the Division will grant reconsideration where the request 
identifies a clerical or mechanical error in the determination or a significant legal or factual issue 
that the Division may have overlooked or misapprehended in resolving the complaint. During the 
course of our investigation of the underlying complaint, we requested that the Board provide 
further information and argument to support its assertion that citing to the law that required 
secrecy would have jeopardized the purpose for the December 11, 2023, executive session. On 
May 30, 2024, having received some additional information and response from the Board, 
through its counsel, our office requested additional information regarding one issue. The Board 
did not respond further.  
 
After OML 2024-135 was issued, counsel for the Board contacted our office and 
provided further information explaining and supporting the basis for the Board’s claim that citing 
to the law requiring secrecy would have jeopardized the purpose for the December 11, 2023, 
executive session. Based on this additional information, we grant the request for reconsideration 
and reissue the determination. Although we exercise our discretion to grant the request for 
reconsideration in this instance, we note that the additional information provided to our office 
after issuance of OML 2024-135 was available to the Board and could have been provided 
earlier. 
 
We now conclude that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law, as explained in 
the reissued determination letter. Additionally, we no longer have concerns about the propriety 
of the discussion held in executive session on December 11, 2023. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
cc: Amy Smith, Chair, Georgetown Board of Selectmen 
(via email: ASmith@georgetownma.gov) 
Kerri McManus, Town Clerk (via email: kmcmanus@georgetownma.gov) 
Kevin Wood (via email: )  

===PAGE 3===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 19, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 135 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Thomas W. McEnaney, Esq.  
KP Law 
tmcenaney@k-plaw.com  
 
Jared M. Collins, Esq. 
KP Law 
JCollins@k-plaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorneys McEnaney and Collins: 
 
This office received a complaint from Kevin Wood on February 1, 2024, alleging that the 
Georgetown Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about December 12, 2023,
1 
and, after an extension of time granted by this office, Attorney McEnaney responded on behalf 
of the Board by letter dated January 9, 2024. The complaint alleges that the notice for the 
Board’s December 11 executive session was insufficiently specific. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, the request for further review, and the notice for the December 11 executive 
session. We also reviewed, in camera, draft minutes of the December 11 executive session.
2 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 We note that, beginning on April 16, 2024, our office made several requests for the minutes of the December 11 
executive session for the purpose of performing an in camera review. The Board did not provide a copy of such 
minutes until June 26, 2024, and the minutes provided were in draft form. We remind the Board that “[u]pon 
notification of an investigation, any person, public body or any other state, regional, county, municipal or other 
governmental official or entity who is the subject of an investigation, shall make all information necessary to 
conduct such investigation available to the attorney general.” G.L. 30A, § 24. 
===PAGE 4===
2 
 
Finally, we communicated by email with Attorney McEnaney and Attorney Collins on several 
occasions, and by telephone with Attorney McEnaney.3 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). However, the Open Meeting Law permits public bodies to 
enter executive session and conduct deliberations outside public view for one or more of the ten 
specific purposes enumerated in the Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One appropriate purpose for 
convening in executive session is “to comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or 
special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7) (“Purpose 7”).  
 
Prior to convening in executive session, “the chair shall state the purpose for the 
executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose 
for which the executive session was called.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney 
for the Northern District v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary . . . because that is the 
only notification given the public that [a public body] would conduct business in private, and the 
only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper.”); OML 
2011-30.
4 The same level of detail regarding the executive session topic must also be included 
on the meeting notice. See OML 2023-207; OML 2019-85; OML 2017-43. Typically, when a 
public body enters executive session under Purpose 7, it must cite, both on the meeting notice 
and in the announcement prior to convening in executive session, the specific general or special 
law, or federal grant-in-aid requirement, that requires confidentiality or requires the public body 
to meet behind closed doors. See OML 2011-34 (“Because the Board did not provide any law or 
grant-in-aid requirement to justify their executive session under Purpose 7, it was not appropriate 
for the Board to employ Purpose 7.”); OML 2015-55; OML 2023-207.  
 
On December 7, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held in executive session on 
December 11. The notice included the following executive session topics: “To comply with, or 
act under the authority of, any general or special law or federal grant in aid requirements (G.L. 
30A, §21(a)(7),” and “Approval of executive session meeting minutes: June 5, 2023[, and] 
September 7, 2023.” In relation to the Purpose 7 notice topic, the notice did not cite or otherwise 
identify any general law, special law, or federal grant-in-aid requirement requiring 
confidentiality or requiring the Board to meet behind closed doors.  
 
The complaint alleges that by simply reciting the language of Purpose 7, the Board failed 
to “reasonably inform the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” The Board asserts, 
in response, that, 
 
The purpose of the executive session required, and continues to require, 
confidentiality. If the Board had provided any additional detail in its agenda or 
declaration prior to entering executive session, such as identifying the general or 
special law or federal grant -in-aid requirements at issue or the authority pursuant 
 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.  
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 5===
3 
 
to which the Board was acting, it is highly likely that such additional detail would 
have compromised the purpose for entering the executive session, which was to 
preserve that confidentiality. 
 
As part of our investigation, our office requested from the Board, through its counsel, 
additional information and argument in support of its position that merely citing the law upon 
which it relied to enter executive session under Purpose 7 would have compromised the purpose 
for the executive session. Because the Board maintains that identifying the law upon which it 
relied would compromise the purpose for the executive session, we do not share such detail here. 
However, based on the information provided to our office, we find that the Board has satisfied its 
burden of showing that citing the law upon which it relied to convene in executive session under 
Purpose 7 would have compromised the purpose for the executive session.
5 Therefore, we find 
that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it did not cite to the law requiring 
secrecy where doing so would have compromised the purpose for the December 11 executive 
session.  
 
Finally, we note that the draft minutes provided to our office do not contain the level of 
detail required to comply with the Open Meeting Law where they do not summarize the 
discussions held during the almost hour-long meeting. The Open Meeting Law requires that a 
public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, 
setting forth . . . a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a) (emphasis added). The minutes should contain 
enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could 
read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2022-189 (finding 
executive session minutes insufficient and explaining that a public body “may not . . . choose to 
create insufficient meeting minutes as a means to protect information that it believes might be 
exempt from disclosure”); OML 2022-195; OML 2015-55. The Board should revise the minutes 
in accordance with this guidance before approving the minutes. 
 
  
 
5 On May 30, 2024, having received some additional information and response from the Board, through its counsel, 
our office communicated with counsel via email asking that the Board provide any additional information or 
argument in support of its assertion that identifying the law upon which it relied to convene in executive session 
would have jeopardized the purpose for the executive session. Our office received no additional response. After 
OML 2024-135 was originally issued on July 17, 2024, counsel for the Board contacted our office and shared 
additional relevant information. 
 
 
===PAGE 6===
4 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
cc: Amy Smith, Chair, Georgetown Board of Selectmen  
(via email: ASmith@georgetownma.gov)  
Kerri McManus, Town Clerk (via email: kmcmanus@georgetownma.gov)  
Kevin Wood (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
