===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
 
 
June 9, 2023 
 
OML 2023 - 97 
 
VIA E-MAIL 
 
Deirdre Hosler, Esq. 
Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination 
1 Ashburton Place, Room 601 
Boston, MA 02108 
deirdre.hosler@mass.gov 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Hosler: 
 
This office received a complaint from James Brislin on December 28, 2018, alleging that 
the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination (“Commission”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Commission 
on or about October 9, 2018, and the Commission’s former general counsel responded to the 
complaint, on behalf of the Commission, by letter dated November 19, 2018.  The complaint 
alleges that the Commission “held a series of illegal meetings” without complying with the Open 
Meeting Law’s notice and minutes requirements.  The complaint alleges that the “illegal 
meetings” “occurred as recently as September 11, 2018 and/or September 18, 2018,” but does 
not identify any particular meetings or instances deliberation that allegedly took place in 
violation of the Open Meeting Law.   
 
In general, this office will decline to review complaints that do not allege specific 
instances
 of violations of the Open Meeting Law, as our office will not conduct broad audits of 
public bodies based on generalized allegations.  See OML 2021-133; OML Declination 4-22-15 
(Natick Economic Development Committee); OML Declination 3-20-12 (Wilmington Board of 
Assessors).1  However, rather than altogether decline review of this complaint—which raises 
important concerns regarding the Commission’s operation—we took the complaint as an 
 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found on the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
opportunity to work with the Commission toward compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  We 
now issue this letter in resolution of the Open Meeting Law complaint. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law defines a “public body,” in relevant part, as: 
 
a multiple member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the 
executive or legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, 
however created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve 
a public purpose . . . provided, further, that “public body” shall not include the 
general court or the committees or recess commissions thereof, bodies of the 
judicial branch or bodies appointed by a constitutional officer solely for the 
purpose of advising a constitutional officer . . . 
 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  To determine whether a multiple-member entity is a public body subject to 
the Open Meeting Law, there are three factors we consider: 
 
1. The entity must be “within” government and not excluded from the definition of 
“public body;” 
2. The entity must be a “body” empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a “public purpose.” 
 
See OML 2017-118; OML 2016-102; OML 2012-20; OML 2011-42; OML 2010-1.
2 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, 
§§20(a)(b), 21. The Open Meeting Law defines a “meeting” as “a deliberation by a public body 
with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  A “deliberation” is 
defined as an” oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, 
between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; 
provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, 
scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports 
or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed.”  Id.  Generally, for the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple 
majority of the members of the public body.  Id.    
 
In its initial response to the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Commission did not deny 
any particular allegations, but disputed that it is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law.  
The Commission acknowledged that at first blush the Commission falls within the Open Meeting 
Law’s definition of “public body,” insofar as it is a multiple-member body within the executive 
branch of state government that is established to serve a public purpose.  However, the 
Commission asserted that in form and function the Commission “operates akin to a body of the 
judicial branch,” and therefore should be exempted from the Open Meeting Law’s reach.   
 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found online at https://www mass.gov/the -open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
We have spoken with the Commission, through its legal counsel, on several occasions 
and conveyed that we disagreed with the Commission’s position that because it performs a 
largely adjudicatory function, it should be treated like a body of the judicial branch exempt from 
the Open Meeting Law’s reach.  The Open Meeting Law does not exempt bodies that perform an 
adjudicatory function; rather, it exempts “bodies of the judicial branch,” regardless of the 
particular function they perform.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; see also OML Declination 9-11-15 
(Committee for Public Counsel Services).  Therefore, the judicial branch exemption does not 
apply to the Commission, which the Commission acknowledges is within the executive branch.  
We note that the Open Meeting Law exempts from the definition of “meeting” any “meeting of a 
quasi-judicial board or commission held for the sole purpose of making a decision required in an 
adjudicatory proceeding brought before it[.]”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  This exception may well apply 
to some meetings of the Commission, but does not serve to exempt the Commission from the 
Open Meeting Law’s reach altogether.  
 
Here, two members of the three-me
 mber Commission constitute a quorum.  The 
Commission’s jurisdiction encompasses not only the process of reviewing and adjudicating 
complaints of discrimination, but also the day-to-day management of the Commission as a state 
agency.  Discussions regarding procedural or administrative matters may relate to public 
business within a body’s jurisdiction, such as when the body discusses its own organization and 
leadership, assignments, rules or bylaws for the body, and whether the body should consider or 
take action on specific topics at a future meeting.  See OML 2013-27; OML 2011-38.  In other 
words, discussion of a public body’s operation is public business within the body’s jurisdiction.  
See OML 2017-91; OML 2016-81.  For example, we have explained that discussions of staff 
morale, employee workload, and reporting structure, which relate to the daily operation of a 
public body, constitute business within the public body’s jurisdiction.  See 12-23-15 Letter to 
Massachusetts Gaming Commission.   
 
We conclude that the Commission is a
  public body subject to the Open Meeting Law.  
We acknowledge that aspects of Open Meeting Law compliance can be particularly challenging 
for a commission whose commissioners are full-time employees who work out of the same office 
and are responsible for the day-to-day operation of a state agency.  See, e.g., 12-23-15 Letter to 
Massachusetts Gaming Commission.  The Commission has acknowledged our determination that 
it is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, and we commend the Commission for 
taking numerous steps to ensure ongoing compliance with the Law.   
 
Per
haps most notably, the Commission created, for the first time, an Executive Director 
position, which enables an employee, rather than Commissioners in consultation with one 
another, to handle many of the day-to-day responsibilities of running a state agency.  The 
Commission appointed an experienced staff member to the Interim Executive Director Role.  In 
May 2022, this office presented an Open Meeting Law training to the Commission as well as key 
staff members.  In July 2022, the Commission posted notice for its first public business meeting, 
where it discussed at length and then approved an “Open Meeting Process and Procedure” 
document that its general counsel had drafted, with input from our office, to help ensure Open 
Meeting Law compliance going forward.  Since that time, the Commission has regularly posted 
notice for and held open meetings, and timely approved and posted minutes of its meetings.  The 
Commission also has engaged in ongoing discussions regarding filling the Executive Director 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
role on a permanent basis, which efforts are ongoing.  The Commission also has implemented 
other recommended practices to facilitate Open Meeting Law compliance, such as having only 
one Commissioner attend staff meetings, using the “bcc” feature on emails to prevent inadvertent 
“reply-all” communications that may constitute improper deliberation outside of a meeting, and 
using a webinar rather than meeting format when attending trainings remotely to limit 
discussions that may not be appropriate outside of a posted meeting. 
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission is a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law and we order the Commission’s immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: James Brislin, Esq. (via email: ) 
Michael Memmolo, Interim Executive Director (via email: 
michael.memmolo@mass.gov) 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
