===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 3, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 71 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Kathryn M. Fallon Manupelli, Esq. 
City Solicitor 
City of Framingham 
kfallon@framinghamma.gov 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Fallon Manupelli: 
 
This office received a complaint from Geoffrey Epstein on January 21, 2025, alleging 
that the Framingham City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Council on December 12, 2024,
1 and you 
responded on behalf of the Council by letter dated January 17, 2025. The complaint alleges that 
on December 10 the Council improperly convened in executive session, purportedly under G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a)(3), where there was no pending or threatened litigation to be discussed.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Council’s response, the request for further review, and the notice for the Council’s December 10 
meeting. We also communicated by email and telephone with the City Solicitor.
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A public body may enter an executive, or closed, 
session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that 
it has first convened in an open session, the chair has announced the purpose for the executive 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
session, a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, the vote of 
each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly 
announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive 
session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.
3 One permissible reason to convene 
in executive session is “to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an 
open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the collective bargaining or litigating position of 
the public body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).  
 
The exceptions to the general rule that meetings of a public body shall be open are 
narr
owly construed, and a public body’s discussions with its legal counsel do not automatically 
fall under Purpose 3 or any other executive session purpose. See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. 
App. Ct. 637, 641 (2008); Plymouth Dist. Atty v. Bd. of Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 
Mass. 629, 634 (1985) (declining to find an implied executive session purpose “for meetings 
between a governmental body and its attorney” and explaining that the Open Meeting Law 
constitutes a “statutory public waiver of any possible privilege of the public client in meetings of 
governmental bodies except in the narrow circumstances stated in the [Open Meeting Law]”); 
accord Revere Retirement Bd. v. Attorney General, 93 Mass. App. Ct. 1117 (2018) (Rule 1:28 
Decision) (Further Appellate Review denied Sep. 13, 2018); OML 2012-55. Purpose 3 allows the 
narrow opportunity for a public body to discuss strategy with respect to litigation that is pending 
or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely; the mere possibility of 
litigation is not sufficient to invoke executive session Purpose 3. See Perryman v. Sch. Comm. of 
Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 351-725 (1983); OML 2022-9; OML 2012-43. A public body 
may meet in executive session to consider whether to bring a lawsuit. See OML 2017-176. When 
entering executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body must identify the litigation 
matter or bargaining unit that it intends to discuss, if doing so will not compromise the executive 
session purpose. See OML 2014-145; OML 2013-91.  
 
The Council posted notice for a meeting to be held on December 10. The notice included 
the following topic for discussion in executive session: 
 
On request of the Council, vote to meet in executive session pursuant to MGL c. 
30A,§21(a)(3), [exemption 3] and S uffolk Construction Co., I nc. v. Di vision of 
Capital Asset Management, 449 Mass. 444 (2007) and to admit the City Solicitor:  
to discuss s trategy with respect to  litigation where an op en meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the litigating position of the City and the Chair so declares.
4 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
4 Although not raised in the complaint, we note concerns regarding the Council’s meeting notice. The top of the 
notice included the following language in red, bold, all caps type: “The Zoom link provided is for the open session 
of the Council meeting beginning at or about 7PM upon the conclusion of the executive session of Council.” We 
remind the Council that prior to convening in executive session, it must first convene in an open session that the 
public may attend in order to witness the required procedural steps, including the announcement of the purpose for 
the executive session and the vote to convene in executive session, a vote which could fail. G.L. c. 30A, §  21(b). 
Based on the language at the top of the meeting notice, we are concerned that either the Council did not convene in 
open session to conduct the required procedural steps, or that the public could have been deterred from attending the 
open session prior to the executive session because the notice suggested that there would be no open session until 
after the executive session concluded.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
 The Council held its December 10 meeting as scheduled and convened in executive 
session
 with the City Solicitor as anticipated. Because the minutes of the December 10 executive 
session have not been released to the public and because the City Solicitor has represented that 
the issues underlying the executive session discussions remain ongoing, we do not provide detail 
here regarding the content of the Council’s discussions held in executive session. However, 
based on the City Solicitor’s representations made during a discussion with our office, we are 
satisfied that the Council discussed strategy with respect to litigation that the City Solicitor 
reasonably believed was imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. Therefore, we 
find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. See OML 2017-87 
(finding that it was reasonable for the board’s attorney to anticipate litigation in response to the 
board awarding a second contract rather than going through a competitive procurement process, 
and to advise the board of the potential litigation consequences of this decision); OML 2012-5 
(concluding that a public body’s executive session discussion was proper where the public 
body’s attorney advised the body about the potential litigation consequence of its decision 
because, in the attorney’s judgment, a real threat of litigation existed).   
 
We now c
onsider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Philip R. Ottaviani, Jr., Chair, Framingham City Council  
(via email: pottaviani@framinghamma.gov)  
 Lisa Ferguson, Framingham City Clerk (via email: cityclerk@framinghamma.gov) 
Geoffrey Epstein (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
