===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBLJRTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 20, 2016 
OML 2016-78 
Michele E. Randazzo, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Randazzo: 
This office received two related complaints from Judith Stainbrook and Erin Sullivan 
alleging that the Sandwich Historic District Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Ms. Stainbrook's complaint was filed with the Committee 
on March 3, and the Committee responded by letter dated March 24.1 This complaint was then 
filed with our office on April 4. Ms. Sullivan's complaint was filed with the Committee on 
February 24 and later amended on March 9. The Committee first responded to the complaints by 
letter dated March 14, and then sent an amended response dated March 24. This complaint was 
then filed with our office on May 6. The complaints allege that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by: (i) posting an insufficiently specific meeting notice, and (ii) discussing a topic 
during a meeting that had not been listed on the meeting notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Committee's responses, 
and the requests for further review filed with our office. 
We find the facts as follows. At issue are two Committee meetings held on February 10 
and 24. During these meetings, the Committee planned to consider an application for a 
Certificate of Appropriateness concerning the Heritage Plantation of Sandwich. The application 
listed the address of the property as 67 Grove Street. The description of the proposed project 
listed on the application is as follows: "Relocation of boulder embankment walls and installation 
of lighting and concrete stairs associated with parking and walkway improvements on Heritage 
Museum and Gardens property." In an area of the application asking applicants what structures 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
are involved in the proposed work, the following structures are indicated: Wall, Paving, and 
Lighting/Stairs. 
On February 4, the Committee posted notice of its February 10 meeting. This notice 
listed the anticipated discussion of a Certificate of Appropriateness described as follows: 
16-19 Meritase Plantation ofSanchvich, Inc. 
Relocation of boulder embankment walls, installation of lighting and concrete stairs 
associated with parking and walkway improvements at 67 Grove Street, located at Map 
37, Lot 006. 
The Committee convened the February 10 meeting as planned. During this meeting, the 
Committee discussed the Heritage Plantation topic, but did not discuss the specific issue of 
paving. Both complainants were present during this meeting, and both made statements against 
the proposed Certificate of Appropriateness. Ultimately, the Committee voted to continue 
further discussion of this matter to the Committee's February 24 meeting. 
On February 22, the Committee posted notice of its February 24 meeting. This notice 
indicated that the Committee would discuss the Heritage Plantation property with the same 
phrasing used on the February 10 meeting notice. The Committee held its February 24 meeting 
as planned. During the meeting, the Committee recognized Ms. Sullivan, who spoke on the 
topic.2 The minutes reflect the following: 
Ms. Erin Sullivan commented on the lighting schedule, and relocation of boulders and 
the harm to come to the root system of existing trees. She continued by inquiring of what 
type ofpaving is being proposed which was answered as asphalt. When she asked for the 
square footage of the parking lot. Chairperson Foley commented that the paving is not 
part of the Committee's purview; Ms. Sullivan noted the application included paving. 
Following this exchange, an attorney representing the developer of the property at issue 
presented the Board with a document described as a "landscape plan." The Committee accepted 
this document as part of the record and ultimately voted to approve the Certificate of 
Appropriateness for the project at issue. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting "at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays" and that every 
notice include "the date, time and place of such meeting and listings of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies 
must list topics for discussion with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to 
include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2012-71; OML 
2011-44.3 
2 Ms. Stainbrook was also present at the February 24 meeting. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at: www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Here, the complaints allege that the two meeting notices contain insufficient detail 
because they did not disclose that paving was part of the project under consideration by the 
Committee. The Open Meeting Law requires that a meeting notice list topics for discussion that 
are anticipated by the chair. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The law does not require the meeting notice 
to list—or a public body to discuss—all tangential issues related to a particular project. See 
OML 2015-73. While it is true that the application before the Committee contained paving as 
part of the underlying project, the Chair's statements during the February 24 meeting indicate 
that she did not anticipate discussing paving during either meeting at issue. As such, because the 
Committee was not required to discuss all issues associated with the project, and, indeed, 
because the Chair did not anticipate doing so, we find that the Committee did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law with respect to this allegation. See OML 2016-68. 
Ms. Sullivan's complaint further alleges that the February 10 and 24 meeting notices 
were deficient because the project included work at lots other than the one listed on the notices. 
Both notices list the property as "67 Grove Street, located at Map 37, Lot 006." Ms. Sullivan's 
complaint contends that the project also included work located at 0 Pocasset Road (Map 37, Lot 
001) and that the omission of this information denied the public knowledge of what the 
Committee would discuss. We find that the notices were sufficient. The application before the 
Committee listed the property as "67 Grove Street."4 While it appears that the project involves 
work covering more than one street address, because of the address listed on the application we 
find that the notices accurately reflected what the Committee anticipated discussing during the 
two meetings.5 
Finally, Ms. Sullivan's amended complaint alleges that the Committee should not have 
considered the landscape plan submitted during the February 24 meeting because it was not 
listed on the meeting notice. As stated above, the Open Meeting Law requires the Committee to 
list all topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed 48 hours prior to a meeting. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Here, the Committee was made aware of the landscape plan during the 
February 24, 2016 meeting.6 As such, we find that the Chair did not anticipate discussion of the 
matter 48 hours prior to the meeting and we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law in this respect. While the Attorney General encourages public bodies to postpone 
discussion of items not requiring immediate action that were not listed on a meeting notice, see 
OML 2012-3, the Committee did not violate the law with respect to this allegation. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
4 We note that an application sent by the developer to the Division of Fisheries and Wildlife conceming the same 
project listed the address of the site as 0 Pocasset Road. 
5 This documentation included maps of the area impacted by the project, along with various applications filed by the 
developer. To the extent that the complaints concern a potential lack of notice to abutters, we note that the Open 
Meeting Law does not govern the requirements for holding a public hearing; therefore we do not review, and offer 
no opinion on, whether there was a violation of any public hearing law. See OML 2016-23. 
6 It does not appear that the Committee discussed it substantively. Rather, the Committee added the document to the 
pre-existing file. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Judith Stainbrook 
Erin Sullivan 
Sandwich Historic District Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 