===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
December 20, 2019 
OML 2019-165
Janelle Austin, Esq.
KP Law P.C.
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Austin:
This office received a complaint from Joshua Resnek on November 13, 2018, alleging 
that the Everett School Finance Review Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission 
on July 30, 2018, and you responded on behalf of the Commission by letter dated September 28,
2018. In his complaint, Mr. Resnek alleges that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law 
when Mr. Resnek was told to leave a public meeting and several members of the Commission 
remained in the room afterward to have a private conversation about Commission business.12
Following our review, we find no evidence that the Commission violated the Open 
Meeting Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the complaint, the Commission’s 
response, including meeting minutes, and the request for further review.1 2 3 We spoke to you by 
phone on November 4 and 15, 2019, and emailed with you on November 20, 2019. We 
communicated by phone with the Complainant’s counsel on November 21 and 26, 2019. We 
spoke with Mr. Resnek on December 10, 2019. Finally, we communicated by email with two 
Commission members, Mr. Charles Obremski and Ms. Millie Cardello, on December 10 and 11,
2019.
1 The complaint also alleges that the meeting was not properly adjourned, as there was no motion to formally 
conclude the meeting. We note that, even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of G.L. c. 30A,
§§ 18-25. Accordingly, we decline to review it. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of 
Commissioners).
2 One Commission member is an employee of the Attorney General’s Office. The Complainant informed us that that 
member was among those who left the meeting room promptly after the meeting ended. Therefore, this individual 
was not a witness to the alleged violation, and played no role in the Division’s consideration of the complaint.
3 We decline to review any new allegations made in the request for further review. Our office does not conduct 
broad audits of public bodies and will seek to address only allegations made in the Open Meeting Law complaint in 
order to give a public body an opportunity to address those allegations. See OML Declination 4-22-15; OML 
Declination 8-25-2015.

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Commission is a 13-member body; therefore, 7 
members constitute a quorum. The Commission posted notice for a meeting to be held on July 
26, 2018. The Commission convened its meeting in the Mayor’s conference room on July 26, 
2018, and discussed various matters, including school enrollment, the upcoming 2020 census, 
school revenue and expenditures. Mr. Resnek, the owner of the Everett Leader Herald weekly 
newspaper, was the only member of the public in attendance.
Towards the end of the meeting, then-Superintendent Foresteire questioned the level of 
transparency of the Commission. Mayor DeMaria stated that he wants to be transparent and that 
anyone can attend the Commission’s public meetings. Mayor DeMaria and Superintendent 
Foresteire also debated the causes of a recent school budget shortfall. The meeting was then 
adjourned, according to the minutes “so the board would not be off subject.” At the conclusion of 
the meeting, Mr. Resnek was told to leave the meeting room by a member of the Commission. 
Some of the members of the Commission left as well. After Mr. Resnek left the room and the 
door was closed by a Commission member, some members of the Commission continued 
speaking with each other in small groups about personal matters. We were unable to ascertain 
precisely how many Commission members remained in the meeting room.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Thus, the law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Open Meeting Law defines a “meeting” as “a deliberation 
by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
“Deliberation” is defined, in relevant part, as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.” Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a 
simple majority of the member of the public body. Id.
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body (during which all 
deliberation takes place) be open and accessible to the public. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); OML 
2012-49.4 Access must include the opportunity to be physically present as well as to see and hear 
what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2017-40; OML 2017-16; 
OML 2013-189; OML 2012-66; OML 2012-48.
Here, Mr. Resnek acknowledges that he was not able to hear the conversations that took 
place between the remaining Commission members after he left the room. In its response to the 
complaint, the Commission asserted that the remaining Commission members did not discuss 
any Commission business, but rather had several separate personal conversations after the 
conclusion of the meeting. This statement of events is corroborated by the two Commission 
members we spoke to whom Mr. Resnek identified as being among those who remained in the
4 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass, gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
room after the meeting was over. Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public 
body’s account of the facts. See OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141. Here, we credit the 
Commission’s assertion that the members did not talk about Commission business after the 
meeting had been adjourned and therefore find that the Commission did not deliberate outside of 
the public meeting. See OML 2017-84. Accordingly, we find no violation of the Open Meeting 
Law.
We caution public bodies, however, that removing members of the public from a meeting 
room and then continuing to converse, no matter how unrelated to the meeting business those 
conversations may be, creates at least the appearance of deliberation outside of a public meeting. 
Therefore, we recommend that public bodies, to avoid the appearance of impropriety, not eject 
members of the public from meeting rooms while a quorum of the public body remains, unless 
they will be entering into a proper executive session.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find no evidence that the Commission violated the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions.
Sarah Chase
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Joshua  Resnek
City of Everett School Finance Review Commission
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3
