===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
February 28, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 30 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Chair Sandra Slavin  
Wareham Conservation Commission  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Slavin: 
This office received two complaints from Nora Bicki on November 1, 2021, alleging that 
the Wareham Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Commission on June 9 and 
October 4.1 The Commission did not respond to the complaints, despite repeated outreach from 
Ms. Bicki and our office. In her complaints, Ms. Bicki alleges that the Commission failed to 
approve meeting minutes in a timely manner, failed to properly respond to an Open Meeting Law 
complaint, and failed to complete the required Open Meeting Law certification forms.2  
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint and the 
complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed several sets of 2020 and 2021 
meeting minutes posted to the Commission’s website, including the February 19, 2020, minutes. 
Finally, we communicated by email with Ms. Bicki in November of 2021 and February of 2022.  
DISCUSSION 
1. The Commission failed to approve meeting minutes in a timely manner.  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 The complaints also allege that the Commission failed to post its meeting minutes from 2020 and 2021 to the 
Wareham Town website. We note that, even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The Open Meeting Law does not require that public bodies post their minutes to a website or elsewhere, 
but only that minutes be approved in a timely manner and made available, if they exist, within 10 days of a request. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); see OML 2020-78. Accordingly, we decline to review this allegation. See OML Declination 1-
25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners).  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes must be reviewed 
and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Open Meeting Law itself does not 
define “timely manner.” However, the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations 
provide that “timely manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 
days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.” 940 
C.M.R. 29.1 (2); OML 2022-13.3 
 Ms. Bicki alleges that the Commission failed to approve meeting minutes in a timely 
manner on numerous occasions in 2020 and 2021. Our investigation of this allegation was 
hampered by the Commission’s lack of a response to our office. However, in reviewing a sample 
of the Commission’s publicly available meeting minutes while investigating this complaint, we 
noted several sets of minutes that were signed and dated by the Commission’s Chair between 
eight and twelve months after the corresponding meeting, well outside of the three meeting or 
30-day requirement. We therefore find that the Commission violated the Law.  
2. The Commission failed to properly respond to two Open Meeting Law complaints.  
 The Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receiving an Open 
Meeting Law complaint, a public body shall meet to review the complaint’s allegations, take any 
appropriate remedial action, and send a response and description of any remedial action taken to 
the complainant. The public body must also notify the Attorney General that it has sent such 
materials to the complainant, providing the Attorney General with a copy of the complaint, the 
response, and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30 A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 
29.05(5). Upon the public body’s written request showing good cause, this office may authorize 
an extension of time to respond. 940 CMR 29.05(5)(b). Here, we find no evidence that the 
Commission sent a response to Ms. Bicki, as required, nor did the Commission notify our office 
or provide a copy of the complaint and response. Therefore, we find that the Commission 
violated the Law by failing to properly respond to the two Open Meeting Law complaints. 
3. Members of the Commission failed to complete Open Meeting Law certification forms.  
 The Open Meeting Law requires that “within 2 weeks of qualification for office, all 
persons serving on a public body shall certify, on a form prescribed by the attorney general, the 
receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, regulations promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a 
copy of the educational materials prepared by the attorney general explaining the open meeting 
law ... The certification shall be evidence that the member of a public body has read and 
understands the requirements of the open meeting law and the consequences of violating it.” 
G.L. c. 30A § 20(h) (emphasis added). The Open Meeting Law regulations further define the 
educational materials that must be provided, including a copy of each Open Meeting Law 
determination issued to the public body within the last five years in which our office found a 
violation. 940 CMR 29.04(1). Finally, the regulations clarify that “[a]n individual serving on 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
multiple public bodies must sign a certification for each public body on which he or she 
serves[,]” and that public body members “must sign a new certification upon reelection or 
reappointment to the public body.” 940 CMR 29.04(4) and (5). 
 Here, Ms. Bicki alleges that the Commission members did not complete Open Meeting 
Law certification forms within two weeks of qualification for office. In response to her requests 
for copies of the certification forms, Ms. Bicki was told on October 4 by the Wareham Town 
Clerk that the Clerk only required public body members to sign the Clerk’s own form confirming 
receipt of the Open Meeting Law materials. Because the Commission did not respond to the 
complaints with any assertion that the Commission members had signed the required 
certification form, we conclude that the Commission members violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to complete the required certification form. If it is the Wareham Town Clerk’s practice 
to accept a generic form in lieu of the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law certification form, 
we advise that the Clerk amend this practice and take steps to bring all other Wareham public 
bodies into compliance with this aspect of the Law.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law when the Commission failed to timely approve meeting minutes, failed to properly respond 
to two Open Meeting Law complaints and failed to complete the required Open Meeting Law 
certification forms. We order the Commission’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law and caution the Commission that a determination by our office of a similar 
violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 We order the Commission to create and approve, within sixty (60) days of receipt of this 
letter, minutes for all of its 2020 and 2021 meetings for which the Commission has not already 
approved minutes. The Commission should create these minutes to the best of its ability, through 
whatever means are available, including the memories and individual notations of the attendees. 
We also order the Commission to send a copy of minutes for all of its 2020 and 2021 meetings to 
Ms. Bicki within sixty-five (65) days of receipt of this letter and to make those minutes available 
to the public upon request. Finally, we order the Commission’s members to each complete the 
Open Meeting Law certification form prescribed by the Attorney General within two (2) weeks 
of receipt of this letter. The form may be found on the Attorney General’s website.4   
 We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
4 https://www.mass.gov/service-details/complete-public-body-member-certification 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
cc: Nora Bicki (via e-mail: ) 
 Wareham Conservation Administrator David Pichette (via e-mail: 
 ) 
 Wareham Town Clerk Michele Bissonnette (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
