===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
May 10, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 94 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Thomas W. McEnaney, Esq. 
KP Law 
tmcenaney@k-plaw.com  
 
Jared M. Collins, Esq. 
KP Law 
JCollins@k-plaw.com 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorneys McEnaney and Collins: 
 
This office received three complaints from Kevin Wood alleging that the Georgetown 
Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The first complaint was originally filed with the Commission on December 1, 2023, 
and Attorney McEnaney responded on behalf of the Commission by letter dated December 22, 
2023. Thereafter, on December 27, 2023, Mr. Wood filed the first complaint with our office for 
further review. The first complaint relates to an executive session the Commission held on 
November 30, 2023, and alleges that 1) the meeting notice and announcement prior to convening 
in executive session were insufficient, and 2) the executive session was held for an improper 
purpose. 
 
The second complaint was filed with the Commission on or about January 18, 2024. The 
Commission did not respond. On March 27, 2024, having received no response to the complaint, 
Mr. Wood filed the second complaint with our office requesting further review. The second 
complaint relates to a public records request Mr. Wood made for draft minutes of the November 
30 executive session.  
 
The third complaint was filed with the Commission on or about February 15, 2024. On 
March 27, 2024, having received no response to the complaint, Mr. Wood filed the third 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
complaint with our office requesting further review. After our office reached out regarding the 
third complaint, the Commission responded, through counsel, by letter dated April 24, 2024, 
approximately seven weeks after a response was due. The third complaint was filed after Mr. 
Wood received a copy of the minutes for the November 30 executive session and again alleges 
that the executive session was improper. We also understand the third complaint to allege that 
the minutes for the November 30 executive session are insufficiently detailed.  
 
Following our review, we find that
  the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
creating insufficient minutes for its November 30 executive session. We find that the 
Commission did not otherwise violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged in the first and third 
complaints, and we decline to review the second complaint. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the Commission’s responses, the requests for 
further review, the notice and minutes of the November 30 executive session, and the decision 
issued by the Essex Superior Court on November 3, 2023, in G. Mello Disposal, Corp. v. 
Georgetown Conservation Commission, No. 2277-CV-00180. We also communicated with 
Counsel for the Commission via email.1 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. In a decision issued on January 3, 2022, the 
Commission denied an Order of Conditions sought by G. Mello Disposal, Corp. (“G. Mello”) to 
construct a transfer station on Carleton Drive in Georgetown, finding that the project did not 
satisfy either the state Wetlands Protection Act, G. L. c. 131, § 40, or the local Georgetown 
Wetlands Bylaw and Regulations. Thereafter, G. Mello appealed the denial in two venues. First, 
G. Mello appealed to the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection that portion of 
the Commission’s denial that was based on its determination that the project did not comply with 
the Wetlands Protection Act. Second, G. Mello appealed in Essex Superior Court that portion of 
the Commission’s denial that was based on the Georgetown Wetlands Bylaw and Regulations.  
 
By decision dated November 3, 2023, the Superior Court annulled the Commission’s 
decision and remanded the matter “to the Commission for a lawfully noticed public proceeding, 
after which the Commission shall expeditiously issue an order of conditions to Mello consistent 
with this decision.”  
 
On November 27 the Commission posted notice for an executive session meeting to be 
held on November 30 at 7:00 p.m. The notice stated as follows:  
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION: To discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining 
or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government’s 
bargaining or litigating position (G. Mello V Conservation Commission).
2 
 
1 For the sake of clarity, we refer to Attorney McEnaney and Attorney Collins collectively and in the third person.  
2 When the only business to be discussed during an open session is the procedural requirements for entering 
executive session, the public body must list “open session” on the meeting notice as this is the only means by which 
members of the public are informed that the public body will hold an open meeting that they are permitted to attend. 
See OML 2019- 160. Without such notice, members of the public are essentially denied the opportunity to attend 
and learn the reasons for the executive session. See OML 2013-195. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
Prior to convening in executive session, the Commission’s vice chair, Rachel Bancroft, 
acting as chair for the meeting read aloud the above language.3 During the November 30 
executive session, the Commission met with legal counsel and discussed whether to appeal the 
Superior Court’s decision or to comply with the Court’s order to approve an Order of Conditions 
for G. Mello. The discussion of whether to appeal included discussing the contents of a potential 
Order of Conditions and actions the Commission would need to take if it decided not to appeal 
the judgment.  
 
Ultimately, the Commission decided not to appeal the Superior Court decision and 
instead issued a new Order of Conditions conditionally approving G. Mello’s waste transfer 
station project. 
 
The minutes for the November 30 executive session were released to the public on or 
about February 14, 2024.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Commission has Continually Failed to Comply with the Requirements fo r 
Responding to Open Meeting Law Complaints. 
 
As an initial matter, we note that in 2024 our office has issued five determinations that 
address complaints that the Commission either did not respond to at all or did not respond to 
within the timeframe set forth in the Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting Law requires that, 
unless an extension has been granted by the Attorney General, within 14 business days of receipt 
of an Open Meeting Law complaint a public body must meet to review the complaint’s 
allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the complainant a response and a 
description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5)&(6). The 
public body must also send the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of 
any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). The Commission’s 
continued failure to comply with the requirement to review and respond to Open Meeting Law 
complaints within 14 business days is concerning and is itself a violation of the Law. We trust 
that now, after this sixth warning from our office, the Commission fully understands its 
obligation to respond to Open Meeting Law complaints in a timely manner. Additionally, we 
note that a future finding of a violation for failure to timely respond to an Open Meeting Law 
complaint will be considered an intentional violation and may result in the imposition of a 
$1,000 civil penalty per intentional violation.  
  
 
 
 
3 The minutes of the November 30 executive session do not record that the litigation matter was identified in the 
announcement prior to convening in executive session. However, the Complainant, who attended the open session 
portion of the November 30 meeting, asserts that Ms. Bancroft read the meeting notice language verbatim.  
Additionally, the complaint alleges that the announcement was “defective for the same reasons as the Agenda.” 
Therefore, for purposes of this determination, we find that the language of the announcement was identical to that of 
the notice. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
II. The Notice and Announcement for the November 30 Executive Session Were 
Sufficient and the Executive Session was Held for a Proper Purpose. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be open to members 
of the public unless the public body lawfully convenes an executive session for one or more of 
the ten purposes enumerated in the Law. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21. One such purpose for 
convening in executive session is “to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or 
litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating 
position of the public body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”). A 
discussion of whether to pursue an appeal is the type of strategic litigation decision protected by 
Purpose 3. See OML 2012-116; OML 2012-81.
4 When convening in executive session pursuant 
to Purpose 3, a public body must identify, in both the meeting notice and the announcement prior 
to convening in executive session, the collective bargaining unit with which it will be negotiating 
or the litigation matter it will be discussing, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose 
for secrecy. See OML 2019-163; OML 2016-12. 
 
 The first complaint alleges that the notice for the November 30 executive session and the 
announce
ment prior to convening in executive session were insufficient where they did “not 
provide a sufficient or unambiguous description of the purpose for Executive Session.” We 
disagree. Where the notice and announcement identified the specific litigation matter to be 
discussed in executive session, we find that they were both sufficient. See OML 2020-28. 
 
  Next, the first and third  co
 mplaints allege that the Commission improperly met in 
executive session under Purpose 3 because 1) there was no longer a litigation matter to discuss 
after the Superior Court issued its decision, and 2) the Commission discussed issues related to an 
Order of Conditions. As explained above, a discussion of whether to pursue an appeal is the type 
of strategic litigation decision protected by Purpose 3. See OML 2012-116; OML 2012-81. 
Additionally, where the Commission’s discussions of the Order of Conditions related to its 
discussion of whether to appeal the Superior Court’s decision, we find that they were proper for 
executive session. See OML 2017-9 (finding that discussion of “whether, in lieu of appealing the 
decision, [the commission] could reissue amended orders of conditions” related to litigation 
strategy and was appropriate for executive session under Purpose 3); OML 2023-191. We offer 
no opinion as to whether any other law or the Superior Court’s order required the Commission to 
also discuss the Order of Conditions in open session or whether the Commission complied with 
any such requirement.  
 
III. The Minutes of the November 30 Executive Session are Ins
 ufficiently Detailed. 
 
 The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of al
l meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
OML 2017-104; OML 2013-64. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should 
conta
in enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 
2019-145; OML 2012-106. Although a transcript of the discussions is not required, and the 
minutes need not include every remark or opinion presented, minutes must include a substantive 
summary of the discussion on each topic. See OML 2020-18. Minutes of executive sessions must 
include the same level of detail as is required for open sessions. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 
2020-53; OML 2022-189 (finding that a public body may not choose to create insufficient 
executive session minutes as a means of protecting information it believes might be exempt from 
disclosure; rather, the public body must create sufficiently detailed minutes and then may redact 
information as appropriate under the attorney-client privilege or one or more of the exemptions 
to the Public Records Law). 
 
The th
ird complaint alleges that the minutes of the November 30 executive session are 
insufficiently detailed. As an initial matter, we note that the minutes provided to our office are 
marked “draft” on the first page. However, we understand these minutes to be the final version 
for the following reasons: 1) in response to the allegation that the minutes are insufficient, the 
Commission does not assert that they are in draft form; 2) the Commission has not offered any 
other version of the minutes, not even with its April 24, 2024, response to the complaint; and 3) 
in its response, the Commission refers to the minutes provided to our office simply as “the 
minutes.”  
 
After reviewing the minutes for the November 30 executive session, we find that they are 
insufficiently detailed. The minutes substantively record the Commission’s approximately hour-
long discussion in less than half a page. Although the minutes identify some topics that were 
discussed, they fail to sufficiently summarize the discussions such that an individual who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. 
Because the minutes of the November 30 executive session lack the requisite level of detail, we 
find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law. We order the Commission to amend 
the minutes to include a summary of the discussions held during the November 30 executive 
session and to release the amended minutes to the public. We note, however, that the 
Commission may redact information that falls under the attorney-client privilege or one or more 
of the exemptions to the Public Records Law prior to releasing the amended minutes. G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(f). 
 
IV. We Decl
 ine to Review the Second Complaint Because it Does Not Allege Violations 
of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
The Division’s statutory review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The second complaint arises out of a request the Complainant made under the 
Public Records Law for draft minutes of the November 30 executive session and does not clearly 
allege any violation of the Open Meeting Law. Therefore, we decline to review the second 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
complaint. See OML 2024-2; OML Declination 8-20-2020 (Well fleet Selectboard); OML 
Declination 6-14-2022 (Northfield Planning Board).5 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by creating insufficiently detailed minutes for its November 30 executive session. We find 
that the Commission did not otherwise violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged in the first and 
third complaints, and we decline to review the second complaint. We order the Commission’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar future 
violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. Additionally, we order the 
Commission, within 30 days of the date of this determination, to amend the minutes of its 
November 30 executive session to include a substantive summary of the discussions that were 
held and to release the amended minute to the public, subject to appropriate redactions. 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Commission 
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Rebecca Chane, Chair, Georgetown Conservation Commission  
(via email: rchane@georgetownma.gov)  
Michèle Grenier, Conservation Director (via email: MGrenier@GeorgetownMa.gov) 
Kerri McManus, Town Clerk (via email: kmcmanus@georgetownma.gov)  
Kevin Wood (via email: ) 
 
 
 
5 To the extent the complaint asserts that the purpose for the November 30 executive session has been served such 
that the Commission may no longer withhold the minutes of the executive session, as noted above, the minutes have 
been released to the public. Additionally, to the extent the assertion that the “Commission has not published or made 
minutes available since May 18, 2023” was intended to allege a violation of the Open Meeting Law, we note that the 
Open Meeting Law does not require that meeting minutes be “published,” only that they be made  available upon 
request. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22; OML 2017-98; OML 2017-25. Furthermore, our office will not conduct broad audits 
based on generalized allegations. See OML 2014-119; OML 2012-106. The complaint does not identify any 
particular set of minutes, other than the minutes for the November 30 executive session, which are alleged to have 
been requested but not made available.  

===PAGE 7===
7 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 