===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEV 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 30, 2017 
OML 2017- 181 
John Donahue 
Principal Assessor 
Board of Assessors 
Town of West Bridgewater 
65 North Main Street 
West Bridgewater, MA 02379 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Donahue: 
This office received a complaint from Denise Reyes on September 12 alleging that the 
West Bridgewater Board of Assessors (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 7, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated September 8, following an extension of time 
granted by our office. The complaint alleges that the Board did not allow public participation at 
its August 2 meeting, and that the Board failed to advise the public in attendance that it had 
reconvened in open session after the conclusion of an executive session. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed 
the notices of and open session minutes from the Board's July 5, July 19, and August 2 meetings 
Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on September 27, October 3, and November 8;2 the 
complainant by telephone on September 28 and November 14; and Board Chair Stephen 
McCarthy by telephone on November 9. 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On July 28, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be 
held on Wednesday, August 2 at 6:00 P.M. The notice listed several topics including 
Correspondence, Minutes, Sign, Discuss, and Adjourn. Under "Discuss", the notice included an 
executive session to discuss abatement applications and contract negotiations with Principal 
Assessor John Donahue. 
The August 2 meeting was held as planned. The Board reviewed correspondence, 
approved minutes, and signed several warrants, the payroll, and abatement certificates. The 
Board then approved a motion to enter into executive session to discuss applications for 
abatement, pending appellate tax board cases, and contract negotiations with the Principal 
Assessor. At 7:00 P.M., the Board approved a unanimous vote by roll call to convene in 
executive session and announced that it would reconvene in open session at the conclusion of the 
executive session. Members of the public, including the complainant, left the meeting room. 
The door to the meeting room was then closed. 
The complainant waited in the hallway approximately ten feet from the meeting room, 
while the Board met in executive session. The Board reconvened in open session at 7:10 P.M. 
Chair McCarthy opened the meeting room door after the conclusion of the executive session but 
he did not see or hear anyone waiting in the hallway. The Board did not announce that it was 
reconvening in open session, and the complainant did not see or hear the door open. 
After reconvening, the Board voted to execute an employment agreement with Principal 
Assessor Donahue and then immediately adjourned at 7:15 P.M. The complainant was not 
present when the employment agreement was executed and missed this five-minute portion of 
the meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The complainant alleges that the Board did not allow her to ask questions during the 
August 2 open session meeting. The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body 
allow public participation in its meetings, but rather provides that "[n]o person shall address a 
meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of 
the chair, be silent." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g). The Open Meeting Law therefore gives discretion to 
the chair of a public body to determine who may speak or otherwise participate at a meeting. 
See OML 2014-23; OML 2013-64; OML 2012-59.3 As it is within the chair's discretion to limit 
public participation during a meeting, he did not violate the Open Meeting Law by doing so here. 
However, we encourage public bodies to allow public participation whenever possible. See 
OML 2015-12; OML 2014-129; OML 2012-59. 
The complaint further alleges that a portion of the meeting was inaccessible because the 
Board did not make a public announcement when it reconvened in open session. Here, the Board 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
entered into executive session at 7:00 P.M. and announced that it would reconvene in open 
session at the conclusion of the executive session. Members of the public then left the meeting 
room and the Board closed the door. The complainant waited in the hallway approximately ten 
feet from the meeting room, while the Board met in executive session. The Board reconvened in 
open session approximately ten minutes later and opened the door. However, the complainant 
did not see or hear the door open, and the Board did not announce that it was reconvening in 
open session. 
Meetings of a public body must be open to members of the public, unless the public body 
convenes an executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21. Access to a meeting must include 
the opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the 
members of the public body. See OML 2015-38; OML 2014-3; OML 2013-189; OML 2012-66. 
Here, the complainant missed approximately five minutes of an otherwise accessible meeting. 
While we decline to find a violation of the Open Meeting Law in this instance, we recommend 
that when the Board is aware that members of the public have remained near the meeting 
location in anticipation of a resumption of the meeting, the Board should make reasonable efforts 
to broadcast that it is reconvening in open session. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by not allowing public 
participation, and not making a public announcement when it reconvened in open session. We 
now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination 
does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please 
feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Denise Reyes 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 