===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 16, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 97 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Colleen Mejia, Esq. 
Everett City Solicitor  
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Attorney Mejia: 
 
This office received a complaint from Steven Fitzgerald on February 1, 2021, alleging 
that the Everett City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about November 23, 2020. The 
Council did not respond to the complaint.1 The complaint alleges that all members of the Council 
failed to comply with the certification requirements of the Open Meeting Law.  
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the request for 
further review, and the certification forms provided by the Council to our office.2  
 
1 We remind the Council of its obligation to comply with all provisions of the Open Meeting Law, including the 
obligation to respond to Open Meeting Law complaints. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
2 We note that in the course of reviewing this complaint, we also reviewed some of the Council’s meeting minutes. 
Because the issue was not raised in this complaint, we make no formal determination as to the sufficiency of the 
Council’s meeting minutes. However, we take this opportunity to remind the Council that meeting minutes must 
include the date, time, and place of the meeting, as well as the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the 
actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See 
OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail 
and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear 
understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “within 2 weeks of qualification for office, all 
persons serving on a public body shall certify, on a form prescribed by the attorney general, the 
receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, regulations promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a 
copy of the educational materials prepared by the attorney general explaining the open meeting 
law and its application pursuant to section 19 . . . . The certification shall be evidence that the 
member of a public body has read and understands the requirements of the open meeting law and 
the consequences of violating it.” G.L. c. 30A § 20(h). The Open Meeting Law regulations 
further clarify that, upon a public body member’s qualification for office, the municipal clerk 
shall provide the required materials to the public body member and the public body member 
shall sign the certification within two weeks thereafter. 940 CMR 29.04(1)&(3). Additionally, 
public body members must sign a new certification upon reelection or reappointment to the 
public body. 940 CMR 29.04(5). 
 
The eleven members of the Council were elected or reelected on November 5, 2019, and 
sworn into office on January 6, 2020. In response to a request from our office for each member’s 
Certification of Receipt of Open Meeting Law Materials, the Council produced four completed 
certification forms, each of which was signed more than one year after the Council members 
qualified for office.3 The Council did not produce certification forms for seven of the eleven 
Council members, and it is our understanding that those seven Council members have not 
completed the required certification form. 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law 
where all of its members failed to comply with the certification requirements of the Open 
Meeting Law. We order the Council’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law and note that future similar violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the 
law. Additionally, we order each member who has not yet completed the certification form to 
complete the form and file it with the City Clerk within 30 days of the date of this letter. 
Although we reject the Complainant’s requested relief that all meetings in the City be suspended 
and that an outside agency be allowed to review all votes taken in 2020 and deem them null and 
void, we note that failure to comply with the certification requirement of the Open Meeting Law 
is not a mere technical violation as it raises real concern as to whether the Council members have 
in fact “read and [understood] the requirements of the open meeting law and the consequences of 
violating it.” G.L. c. 30A § 20(h).  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Council. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 We received certification forms for Council members Wayne Matewsky, John Hanlon, Stephanie Martins, and 
Michael McLaughlin. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Rosa DiFlorio, Everett City Council President (via e-mail:   
Everett City Council (via e-mail:   
Steven Fitzgerald (via e-mail:   
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
