===PAGE 1===
 THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 3, 2020 
       OML 2020 – 113 
 
Colby C. Brunt, Esq. 
Stoneman, Chandler & Miller LLP 
99 High Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By e-mail only: cbrunt@scmllp.com 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Brunt: 
 
This office received a complaint from Scott Andrade on December 16, 2019, alleging that 
the Salem School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on October 3, 2019, and 
amended on October 17, 2019, and you responded, on behalf of the Council, by letter dated 
November 4, 2019.1  The complaint alleges that during a September 3 Committee meeting, the 
Committee discussed and approved a new procedure for responding to Open Meeting Law 
complaints that was contrary to the Law’s requirements and that the minutes for that meeting 
omit any discussion of the new procedure.   
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a),  
after reviewing the original and amended complaints and accompanying attachments, the 
Committee’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review, a video of the September 3 Committee meeting,2 and minutes of the September 3 
meeting.  We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
The complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law at its 
September 3 meeting by discussing and adopting a new “protocol or policy” whereby all Open 
Meeting Law complaints are sent directly to the Superintendent, thereby circumventing the 
requirement in the Open Meeting Law that a public body chair disseminate all Open Meeting 
 
1 Hereafter, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2019. 
2 The video of the Committee’s September 3 meeting is available at 
http://ondemand.satvonline.org/Cablecast/Public/Show.aspx?ChannelID=1&ShowID=16832. 
===PAGE 2===
 
2 
 
Law complaints to the public body members for review and response.  As a preliminary matter, 
after reviewing the video of the September 3 meeting, we disagree that the Committee discussed 
a policy as the complaint describes.  Rather, during the Committee’s September 3 meeting, in the 
course of discussing its response to prior Open Meeting Law complaints filed by another 
individual, the Committee discussed that one of the complaints arose from the Committee’s 
failure to timely respond to a request for executive session meeting minutes.  Specifically, the 
Committee acknowledged that it failed to respond to the request for executive session minutes 
within ten days, and then failed to review the requested minutes for possible release to the public 
by no later than its next meeting or within 30 days.  The Chair explained that the Committee 
established a new protocol for receipt of public records requests, whereby all public records 
requests will be sent to the Superintendent for response, to ensure that records requests are better 
tracked and responded to in a timely manner. 3  At one point Board Member Fleming seemingly 
misspoke when stating that the law requires that there be a designated person “to receive 
potential requests for violations.”  The Chair clarified that the law had not previously required 
that there be a designated person to receive requests, but the law now requires such a designated 
person.  In context, it is clear the Committee members were referring to the appointment of a 
designated person to receive requests made under the Public Records Law, not to receive Open 
Meeting Law complaints.  Indeed, as the Chair alluded, effective in 2017 the amended Public 
Records Law requires all agencies and municipalities to designate a Records Access Officer who 
shall be responsible for coordinating the response to public records requests.  See G.L. c. 66, 
§ 6A.  Therefore, we find that the Committee did not, as the complaint alleges, discuss a policy 
of sending Open Meeting Law complaints directly to the Superintendent to handle; rather, the 
policy that was mentioned was for handling public records requests. 
 Furthermore, a policy whereby Open Meeting Law complaints are sent to the 
Superintendent to prepare a draft response would not violate the Open Meeting Law.  Open 
Meeting Law complaints must be filed with a public body within 30 days of an alleged violation.  
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3).  The public body must then respond to the complaint 
within 14 business days.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  The chair must disseminate 
copies of all complaints to members of the public body and before responding must “meet to 
review the complaint’s allegations” and formulate a response or meet to delegate that authority.  
See 940 CMR 29.05(5); OML 2017-96; OML 2012-90. 4  The public body must review an Open 
Meeting Law complaint before authorizing an individual to respond on its behalf.  See OML 
 
3 Although not raised in the complaint, we note that during its September 3 meeting the Committee appeared to 
conflate its responsibilities under the Open Meeting Law and the Public Records Law.  Therefore, we take this 
opportunity to explain to the Committee that a request for meeting minutes may be made under either the Open 
Meeting Law or the Public Records Law.  The obligations for responding to a request for meeting minutes differ 
depending on whether the request was made under the Open Meeting Law or the Public Records Law.  Notably, a 
request for executive session minutes that is made under the Public Records Law does not impose on the public 
body the obligation to review the executive session minutes no later than its next meeting or 30 days, whichever is 
sooner, to determine whether the lawful purpose for secrecy has expired such that the minutes may be released to the 
public.  Additional information about the distinction between Open Meeting Law and Public Records Law requests 
for meeting minutes is available on the Attorney General’s website and has been addressed in several determinations 
from this office.  See OML 2020-81; OML 2020- 39; OML 2019-125; https://www.mass.gov/info-
details/frequently-asked-questions-about-the-open-meeting-law#frequently-asked-questions-about-meeting-minutes- 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
 
3 
 
2014-74.  Once a public body has reviewed a complaint during a meeting, its decision to simply 
refer the complaint to another individual to respond, rather than discuss its substance, is the 
public body’s prerogative. See OML 2019-40; OML 2017-96.  Moreover, forwarding a 
complaint to legal counsel or another individual, such as a Superintendent, to prepare a draft 
response prior to a meeting does not violate the law as long as the public body reviews the 
complaint during a meeting and then either decides to send the response itself or authorizes 
another individual to send the response.  See OML 2020-96; OML 2018-134.  Therefore, a 
policy where Open Meeting Law complaints are forwarded directly to the Superintendent to 
prepare a response, yet the Committee meets to review the complaint before any response is sent 
and authorizes sending a response, would comply with the requirements of the Open Meeting 
Law.   
Finally, the complaint alleges that the meeting minutes of the Committee’s September 3 
meeting are inaccurate because they omit any discussion of a policy to send Open Meeting Law 
complaints to the Superintendent.  The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create 
and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the 
date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each 
subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the 
actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  When 
reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial 
compliance with the accuracy requirement.  See OML 2020-70; OML 2016-105.  The Open 
Meeting Law does not require a transcript of the discussions, nor that the minutes include every 
remark made or opinion presented.  See OML 2020-70; OML 2017-29; OML 2012-29.  The 
minutes of the Committee’s September 3 meeting accurately reflect the Committee’s discussion 
regarding its response to the Open Meeting Law complaints under review and its 
acknowledgment that it had failed to properly respond to a request for meeting minutes.  We find 
that the minutes of the Committee’s September 3 meeting adequately capture the substance of 
the Committee’s discussion; the minutes were not required to document the passing remarks by 
two Committee members regarding the new protocol for responding to public records requests.   
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Scott Andrade ( ) 

===PAGE 4===
4 
M ayor Kimberley Driscoll, Chair, Salem School Committee (mayor@salem.com) 
Il ene Simons, Salem City  Clerk (isimons@salem.com) 