===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 5, 2016 
OML 2016-49 
Brian Riley, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, PC 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
This office received a complaint from Tom Killilea on February 2, 2016, alleging 
that the Burlington Planning Board (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about November 
25, 2015, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated December 8, 2015. In 
his complaint, Mr. Killilea alleges that, based on a statement made by the Board chair 
during a special town meeting on November 16, 2015, it appeared that a quorum of the 
Board had deliberated outside of a meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a meeting. In reaching our determination, we reviewed the initial 
complaint, the Board's response, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review. In addition, on March 10, 2016, we spoke with Chair Barbara L'Heureux, along 
with Planning Director Kristin Kassner, Senior Planner Josh Moms, and Assistant Planner 
Elizabeth Bonventre. Finally, we reviewed the notice, minutes and a video-recording of 
the Board's November 5, 2015 meeting. 
We find the facts as follows. Lhe Board is a seven-member public body, thus four 
members constitute a quorum. On August 1, 2014, the Board approved a special permit 
for a mixed-use development of the New England Executive Park, which included plans to 
build a full-service hotel. Lhe Board approved this project pursuant to the Planned 
Development District (PDD) zoning bylaw provisions. Lhe PDD required the hotel to be a 
full-service hotel (/e., a hotel without individual kitchens), rather than a residence hotel. 
FACLS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
Subsequently, in September 2015, the Town's Inspector of Buildings issued a building 
permit for the construction of a proposed residence hotel. Mr. Monis did not obtain a copy 
of the permit until October 23, 2015, at which time he detected possible deficiencies with 
the construction plans and invited Chair L'Heureux into the office to review it.1 
On October 23, 2015, Chair L'Heureux, Mr. Morris and Ms. Bonventre reviewed 
the proposed construction plans for the hotel project and determined that they were 
inconsistent with the language of the PDD zoning provisions established for this project. 
Specifically, the proposed hotel was a residence hotel, rather than a full-service hotel. 
Accordingly, Chairman L'Heureux and Planning staff decided that it was necessary to file 
an appeal of the Building Permit to the Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA). The deadline to 
file this appeal was 30 days from the issuance of the permit, which happened to be that 
same day. 
With only hours before the deadline to file an appeal, Chairman L'Heureux asked 
Mr. Morris and Ms. Bonventre to call the other Board members to determine whether they 
supported the filing of an appeal to the ZBA. Mr. Moms spoke individually with Board 
members Ernest Covino and William Gaffney, while Ms. Bonventre spoke individually 
with Board members Paul Raymond and John Kelly. Each member expressed their 
support for filing the appeal. Mr. Morris informed Chairman L'Heureux that based on 
these individual phone conversations, a majority of the Board approved the filing of an 
appeal. As a result, Chairman L'Heureux filed the appeal on behalf of the Board later that 
day. 
During its next meeting on November 5, 2015, the Board disclosed the details of 
the events leading up to the filing of the appeal, including the manner in which the Board 
reached its decision. The meeting notice described the anticipated topic as "Discussion; 1. 
Marriott Residence Inn, 400 District Avenue." According to the minutes, the Board voted 
to "affirm and ratify the appeal filed on October 23, 2015 of the issuance of a building 
permit by the Inspector of Buildings." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly 
noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Law's pmpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy 
surrounding deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. 
School Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A "meeting" is defined, in 
relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or 
written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among 
a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction^]" Id 
1 The Planning Department contends that it was short-staffed during this period of time and did not have a 
chance to obtain a copy of the permit sooner. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Mr. Killilea alleges that the Board improperly reached a decision to appeal a 
building permit for the construction of a hotel outside of a meeting. We agree. The Board 
used Planning Department staff to poll individual Board members in order to reach a 
decision. See OML 2013-186. A public body may not use a non-member, such as a staff 
member, to communicate on matters that the Board would otherwise save for discussion at 
an open meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2016-31; OML 2014-80; see also District 
Attorney for the Northern District v. School Committee of Wayland. 451 Mass. 561, 570-
571 (2009) ("Governmental bodies may not circumvent the requirements of the open 
meeting law by conducting deliberations via private messages, whether electronically, in 
person, over the telephone, or in any other form."). Accordingly, we find that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law. 
The Board's ratification of this decision during its next meeting does not 
sufficiently remedy the serious violation committed. First, the topic listed on the notice 
did not identify the reason for the discussion about that particular hotel: namely, the public 
disclosure of the Board's private decision to file an appeal to the ZBA. During the 
meeting, the Board cursorily explained and ratified its actions, but took no time to discuss 
any possible missteps. We therefore find this action was not sufficient to fully address the 
violation that occurred. See Pearson v. Board of Selectmen of Longmeadow, 49 Mass. 
App. Ct. 119, 125 (2000), citing Tolar v. School Board of Liberty County, 398 So.2d 427, 
429 (Fla. 1981) (In order to cure a violation, the public body must take an independent, 
deliberative action, and not merely engage in a ceremonial acceptance or perfunctory 
ratification of a secret decision); OML 2015-40. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by deliberating outside of a meeting. We order immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law and caution that future similar violations may be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the Law. Additionally, we order the Board to review the 
Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Training Video #1 (Introduction and Open Meeting 
Law Definitions) and certify to our office within thirty (30) days of this letter, using the 
attached form, that it has complied with this order.2 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
2 The videos may be found at the Attorney General's website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
any questions. 
cc: Tom Killilea 
Burlington Planning Board 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c), A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
Certification of Compliance with Order 
I hereby certify that I have read the Attorney General's determination 
(print name) 
number OML 2016-49 and, pursuant to the order therein, reviewed the Attorney General's 
Open Meeting Law Training Video #1 on . 
(date) 
Board Member Signature Date 
5 