===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
       June 14, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 98 
 
 
Ivria Glass Fried, Esq. 
Miyares Harrington 
40 Grove Street, Suite 190 
Wellesley, MA 02482 
 
By email only: ifried@miyares-harrington.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Fried:                                                                                                                                                                          
 
This office received a complaint from Leslie Hanrahan on July 7, 2022, alleging that the 
Wellesley School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about May 15, 2022, and 
you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated June 2, 2022.  The complaint alleges 
that the Committee created a subcommittee that that did not post notice or create meeting 
minutes.   
 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed 
relevant minutes of meetings of the Committee, the Playing Fields Task Force, and the Natural 
Resources Commission held between April 2, 2019, and May 5, 2022, as well as video 
recordings of Committee meetings held between February 9, 2021, and May 3, 2022.
1   
 
 
 
 
1 Video recordings of Committee meetings are available here: 
https://videoplayer.telvue.com/player/LGze1WqTsE8jwTKC--
4xu4kSh8jPjdoJ/playlists/2773?fullscreen=false&showtabssearch=true&autostart=false .  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Committee is a five-member public body; thus, three 
members constitute a quorum.   
 
In April of 2018, at the Annual Town Meeting, the residents of Wellesley approved 
funding for improvement to the softball fields and installation of three restroom buildings and 
two team rooms at the Hunnewell Field Complex.
   
 
During an April 2, 2019, meeting, the Natural Resources Commission (the “NRC”) asked 
the Playing Fields Task Force (the “PFTF”) to investigate the possibility of adding additional 
lighting and improving existing lighting equipment at the athletic fields in Town.  During a May 
10, 2019, meeting, the PFTF created a Lights Subcommittee and appointed eight individuals to 
serve on the subcommittee; this subcommittee was tasked with investigating which athletic fields 
would benefit from the addition of lights or improvement to lights, the type of lighting to install, 
potential costs, and concerns of abutters.    
 
In November of 2019, the Lights Subcommittee issued a report recommending the 
replacement of existing halogen lights at Reidy Field, Hunnewell multipurpose field, and the 
tennis courts with energy efficient, environmentally friendly LED lights, and the installation of 
energy efficient, environmentally friendly LED lights at the high school stadium.  The Lights 
Subcommittee further recommended that use of the lights at the high school stadium be reserved 
for the Wellesley Athletic Department, Wellesley youth sports programs, and other Wellesley-
based groups, and that lights should only be used after receiving a permit from the PFTF.  The 
Lights Subcommittee has since disbanded. 
 
During a February 9, 2021, meeting, the Committee held a joint meeting with the NRC 
and discussed priorities for the Hunnewell Field Complex.  Ms. Chow mentioned the several 
projects that had been approved for funding at the 2018 Annual Town Meeting, including 
improvement to the softball fields and installation of three restroom buildings and two team 
rooms.  Although the softball fields were near completion, funding for the restrooms and team 
rooms proved insufficient to cover the actual costs of the projects and neither project 
commenced.  The Committee and NRC discussed the installation of bathrooms and team rooms 
at the Hunnewell Field Complex, as well as improving or adding lighting at various town athletic 
fields.  Both the Committee and NRC agreed that installing bathrooms was the top priority. 
 
During a meeting held on February 23, 2021, the Committee continued to discuss the 
installation of bathrooms and team rooms at the Hunnewell Field Complex, as well as improving 
or adding lighting at various town athletic fields.  The Committee agreed that installing 
bathrooms using the appropriated funds should be the top priority, even though team rooms 
might seem like a higher priority while adding lights might be the easiest project to complete.  
The Committee then unanimously voted to move “forward with a plan for bathrooms at the 
Hunnewell track and field using the funding approved at Annual Town Meeting in 2018,” to 
“further explore lighting and team rooms . . . at the Hunnewell field, and to engage with the 
[NRC] on developing a process for moving forward.” 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
At beginning of the Committee meeting held on March 9, 2021, Ms. Chow recapped that, 
at its previous meeting, the Committee voted to move forward with the installation of bathrooms, 
while continuing to explore the addition of team rooms and lighting at the Hunnewell Field 
Complex.  She then mentioned that “Jim [Roberti]
2 has kindly offered to work with me” and 
explained that they will attend the next NRC meeting to receive feedback and input on these 
projects.   
 
Thereafter, over the next several months, Ms. Chow and Mr. Roberti met with the NRC,
3 
School Superintendent, High School Principal, Athletic Director, Wellesley Department of 
Public Works, members of the Select Board, neighbors, as well as an environmental firm, a firm 
specializing in protection of the night sky from light pollution, and a sound engineer, to craft a 
proposal for enhancements to the Hunnewell Field Complex.  During a Committee meeting held 
on September 28, 2021, Ms. Chow presented a proposal for those enhancements, which included 
a combination bathroom and concession stand instead of a bathroom adjacent to the existing 
concession stand and for the installation of efficient and environmentally friendly LED lighting.  
The Committee unanimously approved “the proposal for lights on the Hunnewell Track & Field 
site” and “the proposed design changes to team rooms and bathrooms previously approved in 
2018 for presentation to the NRC for their approval.”  Ms. Chow and Mr. Roberti then met with 
the NRC on November 18, 2021, and presented the approved proposal for the installation of 
bathrooms, team rooms and lighting at the Hunnewell Field Complex.  The NRC held several 
public hearings on the proposal between December 14, 2021, and February 17, 2022.  
  
The NRC continued to discuss the Committee’s proposal with respect to the addition of 
lights at the Hunnewell Field Complex during its March 17, 2022, meeting.  Each NRC member 
provided their thoughts and concerns on how lights at the complex would affect the neighbors 
and surrounding natural resources and sought further clarification from the Committee on ways 
to  reduce the number of night games, mitigate trash and noise, and limit parking.  During 
Committee meetings held on March 22, 2022, and May 3, 2022, the Committee discussed the 
feedback received from the NRC and approved a revised proposal for the Hunnewell Field 
Complex, with suggestions to reduce the number of night games and practices, and update the 
lighting usage policy to include a point of contact for potential issues.  The updated proposal was 
presented to the NRC at a duly posted meeting held on May 5, 2022.  
 
During a meeting held on July 7, 2022, the NRC voted by a majority vote to approve the 
Committee’s “proposal to install lights at Hunnewell Track & Field with the condition that the 
use of the lighting will be limited to yearly parameters,” which would include use “by Wellesley 
High School only, 15 night games (not inclusive of playoff games), six night practices, on an as 
needed basis to complete shoulder season day games and practices, [and] Wellesley HS 
graduation” and “additional use, subject to NRC approval, shall be limited to: Additional games 
if requested by both the MIAA/Bay State Conference and WHS, and One-off usage as approved 
by the NRC.” 
 
 
 
2 Jim Roberti was a member of the Committee at that time; however, he is no longer a member of the Committee. 
3 Ms. Chow and Mr. Roberti attended duly posted meetings of the NRC held on March 18, 2021; November 18, 
2021; December 2, 2021; and January 6, 2022.   
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-
(b), 21.  A public body must “post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting 
excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays,” and “create and maintain accurate minutes of 
all meetings.”  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b), 22(a). 
 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to a public body, which is defined, in relevant part, 
as “a multiple member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or 
legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, 
appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
A “subcommittee” is defined as a multiple-member body created to advise or make 
recommendations to a public body.  Id. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee created a subcommittee of two individuals who 
were tasked with “develop[ing] a proposal to install lights at the Wellesley Track and Field,” and 
that this subcommittee did not post notice, create minutes, or hold meetings open to the public.  
The Committee contends that it did not create a subcommittee.  Whether a public body created a 
subcommittee is a fact-intensive inquiry and our analysis hinges on the public body’s actions and 
whether it intended to create a multiple-member body.  Compare, e.g., OML 2017-111 (finding 
that no subcommittee was created where a single volunteer was sought to work on a matter and 
another board member thereafter, on their own initiative, volunteered to assist), with OML 2018-
23 (finding that a subcommittee was created where multiple volunteers were sought to work on a 
matter and after two individuals volunteered, the public body, by consensus, formally agreed to 
the arrangement).
4   
 
After reviewing the information provided to our office as well as numerous minutes and 
video recordings of meetings held by the Committee, NRC and PFTF, we find no evidence that 
the Committee created a subcommittee.  Rather, it appears that Ms. Chow, on her own, 
volunteered to work with the NRC to explore the installation of lights and, thereafter, one other 
Committee member volunteered to assist her.  A gathering of individuals, on their own initiative, 
does not create a subcommittee.  See OML 2016-106.  Here, the two Committee members, on 
their own accord, met with the NRC during duly posted NRC meetings, as well as with school 
officials, neighbors, and consulting firms, to discuss the installations of lights at the Hunnewell 
Field Complex.  After meeting with school officials, neighbors and consulting firms, these two 
Committee members reported back to the Committee to relay information and proposals they had 
learned from their various meetings.  During numerous duly posted meetings, the Committee 
discussed and voted on various proposals for the installation of lights at the Hunnewell Field 
Complex.  Those proposals were then shared with the NRC during duly posted meetings, and the 
NRC conducted several public hearings, before finally voting to approve the Committee’s 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
proposal for the installation of lights at the Hunnewell Field Complex.  We find no evidence that 
the Committee itself created a subcommittee that is subject to the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 
2022-22; OML 2016-106.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not create a subcommittee 
and therefore did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed 
by this determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints 
that may be pending with the Committee or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office 
at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Leslie Hanrahan – By email only:  
 Wellesley School Committee – By email only: School Committee@wellesleyps.org 
 Wellesley Town Clerk – By email only: Kckato@wellesleyma.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
