===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
May 11, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 80 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Brian W. Riley, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
briley@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
This office received a complaint from Jill Normandin on July 22, 2022, alleging that the 
Westminster Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 23, 2022, and you responded on 
behalf of the Board dated June 15, 2022.1 The complaint alleges that the Board’s April 26 
meeting was not accessible to the public because an individual speaking before the Board was 
not audible and that plans that the Board reviewed during the meeting were not visible to the 
audience.
2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed an 
audio recording of the April 26 meeting, provided by the complainant, and additional email 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
2 The complainant raises several other issues in her complaint concerning various meetings that took place between 
2019-2021. We decline to review the allegations as they were not timely filed. The Open Meeting Law provides that 
“[t]he Attorney General shall decline to investigate complaints filed with the Attorney General more than 90 days 
after the alleged violation of M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25, or if the alleged violation of M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 
through 25, could not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then within 90 days of the date it should 
reasonably have been discovered.” 940 CMR 29.05(7). We also decline to review any additional allegations made in 
the request for further review that were not raised in the complaint filed with the Board. Our office does not conduct 
broad audits of public bodies and will address only allegations made in an Open Meeting Law complaint filed with 
the public body in order to give public bodies an opportunity to address those allegations. See  OML 2022-114; OML 
Declination 4-22-15; OML Declination 8-25-2015; OML 2013-118; OML 2013-60. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
correspondence from the complainant. Finally, we spoke to the complainant by telephone on 
May 3, 2023. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. During a Board meeting on April 26, Brian Marchetti, an 
engineer appearing before the Board on behalf of an applicant, presented the development plans 
for a construction project called Westminster Business Park. There was a physical presentation 
of the plans and Board members also had documents in front of them, presumably plans of the 
project, to review while Mr. Marchetti was speaking. An audio recording device was placed near 
the Board members who asked Mr. Marchetti questions during his presentation. During Mr. 
Marchetti’s presentation the complainant at one point asked him to speak up and he complied for 
a time. The complainant has acknowledged that she is hard of hearing. Mr. Marchetti’s 
presentation was followed by a public comment period. The complainant asked several follow up 
questions concerning the project. The exchange between the complainant, Mr. Marchetti, and the 
Board members lasted approximately ten (10) minutes. During this period, the complainant 
questioned Mr. Marchetti over several specific concerns she had about the construction project 
and never mentioned that she could not hear Mr. Marchetti’s presentation.  
On the audio recording of the Board’s April 26 meeting, the Board members’ voices are 
audible and clear throughout the meeting. On the recording, Mr. Marchetti’s voice was lower 
than that of the Board members, and at some brief moments was very low, but remained audible 
on the audio recording.  
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement 
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except 
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”). 
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present as well as to 
see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2020-100; 
OML 2018-75; OML 2016-54.3 
 
The complainant alleges that the April 26 meeting was not accessible because Mr. 
Marchetti’s presentation was not audible to the public. In its response, the Board asserts that it 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law because the complainant did not request hearing 
accommodations. We review this complaint as an allegation that the meeting was not generally 
accessible to the public because the speaker was not audible, not that the Board failed to provide 
hearing accommodations to the complainant. Even though the complainant acknowledges that 
she is hard of hearing and did not request an accommodation, such as Communication Access 
Realtime Translation Service (CART) or the portable microphone amplification system that have 
been offered to her, her contention in the complaint is that  it was difficult for everyone to hear 
the speaker at this meeting and therefore the meeting was generally inaccessible, not merely 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-m eeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
inaccessible to those with hearing impairment who may be eligible for accommodations under 
the Americans with Disabilities Act and state law.4 Despite this assertion and requests from our 
Division, we were not presented with additional evidence or witnesses that suggested any other 
attendees had difficulty hearing portions of the meeting.    
 
While the audio that was provided by the complainant revealed that Mr. Marchetti’s 
voi
ce was low at times, and perhaps the audience strained to hear him during those times, it was 
not so low that a person could not understand what was being said. Indeed, the complainant at 
one point asked him to raise his voice, and he complied, at least for a period. We also 
acknowledge that his voice eventually returned to low levels again, but no one said they could 
not hear him or asked him to speak up again. After Mr. Marchetti’s presentation, the complainant 
engaged in a fulsome discussion with Mr. Marchetti and the Board members during public 
comment period following the presentation, suggesting that she was able to hear and understand 
Mr. Marchetti’s presentation. Because of this, we find that any audibility issues did not rise to 
the level of an Open Meeting Law violation. See, e.g., OML 2021-160 (finding that audio of 
remote meeting was otherwise clear and members of the public could still meaningfully follow 
the proceedings as they occurred even though video briefly cut out many times during the one 
hour and forty-five-minute meeting); OML 2018-20 (finding that meeting was accessible even 
though public body members were speaking in softer voices at the beginning of the meeting 
where members consciously made an effort to raise their voices throughout the remainder of the 
meeting when notified by the public that they could not be heard); OML 2017-16 (finding no 
violation where certain portions of a meeting were difficult to hear, and the chair repeated certain 
statements and questions numerous times when asked); OML 2014-3 (finding no violation where 
the audio and video of a meeting did not demonstrate that the meeting was inaudible and Board 
members repeated themselves so the public could hear). For these reasons, we do not find that 
the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. While we do not find a violation, we take seriously 
the allegation raised in the complaint and remind the Board that meetings must be open and 
accessible to the public. The Board must ensure that speakers speak audibly throughout the 
meeting, and we strongly recommend that speakers be provided with a microphone, especially 
when a meeting is held in a large room. 
 
The c
omplainant also alleges that the plans being presented to the Board were not visible 
to the audience. Even if true, the Open Meeting Law does not require these documents that were 
used by the Board to be visible to the public during meetings. Documents and exhibits that are 
used by a public body at an open or executive session meeting “shall, along with the minutes, be 
part of the official record of the session.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(d). Furthermore, all documents and 
exhibits that are used during an open session meeting “shall be public records in their entirety 
and not exempt from disclosure pursuant to any of the exemptions” to the public records law, 
although certain material may be exempt from disclosure to the public as personnel information. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e). Therefore, although documents and exhibits used by a public body during 
an open session meeting must be provided in response to a public records request, and we 
 
4 According to the Board, to supply CART services, the provider requires two weeks’ notice. The complainant 
asserts that it an unreasonable amount of time because that is more notice required for accommodation than is often 
provided to the public for Board meetings. However, because there is no allegation that any particular public body 
ever failed to provide a reasonable accommodation upon request for any particular meeting, we do not address the 
sufficiency of the specific accommodations the town has offered. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
encourage public bodies to provide meeting attendees with copies of documents the public body 
intends to discuss, there is no requirement in the Open Meeting Law that the public body 
affirmatively provide copies of those documents or make them available during a meeting to 
persons in attendance at a meeting. See OML 2015-199. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
  
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Jill Normandin (via e-mail: ) 
Westminster Planning Board, c/o Town Planner Tracy Murphy (via e-mail: 
tmurphy@westminster-ma.gov) 
 Westminster Town Clerk (via e-mail: esheehan@westminster-ma.gov) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
