===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
wvvw.mass.gov/ago 
December 21, 2017 
OML 2017-200 
James R. Wilson, Esq. 
Administrative Counsel 
Old King's Highway Regional Historic District Commission 
P.O. Box 140 
Barnstable, MA 02630-0140 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Wilson; 
This office received a complaint from Barbara Thornton on June 12 alleging that the Old 
King's Highway Regional Historic District Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Commission 
on April 14, and you responded, on behalf of the Commission, by letter dated May 1. The 
complaint alleges that the minutes for the Commission's March 7 meeting are inaccurate.2 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Commission's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We 
also reviewed the notice of and open session minutes from the Barnstable Old King's Highway 
Historic District Committee's January 25 meeting; and Decision No. 2017-2 issued by the 
Commission. In addition, we listened to an audio recording of the Commission's March 7 
meeting.3 Finally, we spoke separately with you and the complainant by telephone on December 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 We reviewed all of the material provided by Ms. Thornton. The Division of Open Government is charged 
specifically with reviewing complaints to determine compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, 
thus we decline to review, and offer no opinion on, any potential violation of the Old King's Highway Regional 
Historic District Act, its Rules and Regulations, or its Guidelines raised in Ms. Thornton's complaint. 
3 A copy of the audio recording was provided to our office by both the Commission and the complainant. 
4 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
18.4 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. In December 2016, the complainant filed an application for 
a Certificate of Appropriateness with the Barnstable Old King's Highway Historic District 
Committee (the "Committee") to install black solar panels on the roof of her house. The 
Committee reviewed the complainant's application during a public hearing on January 25. At 
the conclusion of the hearing, the Committee voted to deny the Certificate of Appropriateness 
because the panels would be visible from the road and abutters opposed the project. 
The complainant then appealed the denial of the Certificate of Appropriateness to the 
Commission. The Commission held a hearing on March 7 and heard from the complainant, the 
Committee, and the public. The Commission reviewed the denial of the certificate of 
appropriateness, discussed the propriety of the denial, and made specific findings pertaining to 
the complainant's solar panel project. The Commission then voted to uphold the decision 
denying the Certificate of Appropriateness. The Commission issued Decision No. 2017-2 on 
March 24 denying the appeal. 
Decision No. 2017-2 contains the date, time and place of the meeting, the members who 
were present, a summary of the discussions, and the decision affirming the denial of the 
Certificate of Appropriateness including each member's vote. The decision also includes a list 
of certain documents the Commission received and used during the March 7 meeting, but does 
not include the documents provided to the Commission from the complainant on March 7 in 
support of her appeal. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 3 OA, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy 
requirement. See OML 2013-64.5 By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should 
contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 
2012-106. 
The complaint alleges that the minutes from the Commission's March 7 hearing are 
inaccurate in that they do not accurately reflect statements made during the meeting and do not 
include a list of the documents used at the meeting. The Commission maintains that, through 
Decision No. 2017-2, it has created and maintained accurate minutes of its March 7 meeting. 
Public bodies that conduct administrative hearings, such as the Commission, may adopt 
individual or collective written decisions as minutes of a meeting, provided they include all 
required information as outlined in G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). See OML 2015-65. Here, Decision 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
No. 2017-2 contains the date, time and place of the meeting, the members who were present, a 
summary of the discussions, and the decision affirming the denial of the Certificate of 
Appropriateness including each member's vote. Moreover, after reviewing the audio recording 
of the Commission's March 7 meeting, we find that the decision provides an accurate and 
sufficiently detailed summary of the discussions that occurred. See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-
55 (while minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not 
required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented). 
With respect to the list of documents. Decision No. 2017-2 does include a list of certain 
documents the Commission received and used during the March 7 meeting, including the 
complainant's original solar project application, the complainant's appeal petition, and a video of 
the Committee's January 25 meeting. However, the complainant provided the Commission with 
additional documents in support of her appeal during the March 7 meeting, including a written 
copy of her verbal statements, photographs, and minutes and agendas from previous Committee 
meetings. The Commission admits that these documents were inadvertently excluded from the 
decision, although certain documents were referenced in the body of the decision. The Open 
Meeting Law requires that the minutes of a public body's meeting include a list of all documents 
and exhibits used by the public body during the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2012-
91. In response to the complaint, the Commission created a list of all the documents used by the 
Commission and placed such list in the appeal file. While we commend the Commission for 
taking such remedial action, the Open Meeting Law specifically requires that the minutes 
themselves must include a list of the documents used by the Commission. See G.L. c. 3 OA, § 
22(a). Pursuant to our telephone conversation with Attorney Wilson, the Commission will attach 
the list of documents it created to Decision No. 2017-2. As such, we find that the Commission 
has complied with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting, The Commission has agreed to attach the list of documents it created in response to the 
complaint to Decision No. 2017-2. We now consider the complaint addressed by this 
determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may 
be pending with our office or the Commission. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 
963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
i H " 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Barbara Thornton 
3 
===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 