===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
       September 29, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 151 
 
 
Sean M. McKendry 
Assistant City Solicitor 
City of Cambridge 
795 Massachusetts Avenue 
Cambridge, MA 02139 
 
By email only: smckendry@cambridgema.gov  
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney McKendry: 
 
This office received a complaint from Heather Hoffman on March 26, 2025, alleging that 
the Cambridge Bicycle Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about February 11, 
2025; and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, to the complaint by letter dated March 21, 
2025, following an extension of time granted by this office.  The complaint alleges that the 
Committee failed to post notice of a meeting held on January 15, 2025.  In its response, the 
Committee argues that it is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
 
 Following our review, we find that the Committee  is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law.  Because we find that the Committee is a public body, we also find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post a sufficiently specific notice of the 
January 15, 2025, meeting.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, 
the Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review.  In addition, we reviewed the minutes of the Cambridge City Council meeting 
held on January 27, 1992, the notice and minutes of the Committee meeting held on January 15, 
2025, and the Committee’s bylaws.   
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On October 9, 1991, the Mayor’s Bicycle Committee, 
which had been tasked with investigating ways of encouraging and improving bicycling as an 
alternative means of transportation in the City of Cambridge, issued a report.  One 
recommendation in the report was the creation of a permanent bicycle committee consisting of 
community members and representatives of city departments to provide additional resources for 
information, review and resource.  On October 28, 1991, the Cambridge City Council passed 
Policy Order #22 which requested that the City Manager implement the formation of a 
permanent bicycle committee.  By letter dated January 27, 1992, the City Manager informed the 
Council that he had appointed 13 individuals to a bicycle committee and the Council accepted 
and “placed on file” such appointments as part of its consent agenda during a meeting held on 
January 27, 1992. 
 
 Members of the Committee include citizens and city employees, with citizens appointed 
by the City Manager upon application.
1  See Cambridge Bicycle Committee Bylaws, Article III.  
Any citizen appointed to the Committee serves for a two-year term and terms are limited to five 
consecutive terms, for a maximum term of 10 years.  See Cambridge Bicycle Committee 
Bylaws, Article III.  “A quorum is necessary for Committee votes” and seven members 
constitute a quorum.  Cambridge Bicycle Committee Bylaws, Article VI.  In addition, “Majority 
votes shall dictate decisions.”  Id.  The Committee works to improve conditions for bicyclists in 
the City of Cambridge, promote bicycling as a means of transportation, and improve safety 
conditions for bicyclists.  See Cambridge Bicycle Committee Bylaws, Article II.  In addition, the 
Committee reviews City plans for road construction, comments on pending bicycle-related 
ordinances, organizes and participates in public events, creates materials to encourage bicycling 
in the city, and works with other bicycling organizations at the local, state, and national level. 
 
 The Committee chooses from its members a chair, vice chair and secretary and meets 
re
gularly, usually on the second Wednesday of each month at the City Hall Annex.  The chair is 
responsible for setting the agenda in coordination with city staff, for facilitation meetings, for 
organizing the Committee work program and subcommittees in coordination with city staff, and 
for signing Committee correspondence.  The vice chair assists the chair in his or her duties and 
fills in for the chair in his or her absence, while the secretary is responsible for meeting minutes 
and attendance records.  See Cambridge Bicycle Committee Bylaws, Article V. 
 
The City of Cambridge has adopted its website, http://www.cambridgema.gov, as the 
official method of posting notice.  On January 9, 2025, at 9:14 A.M., the Committee posted 
notice for a meeting to be held on January 15, 2025, at 5:30 P.M. to the municipal website.  
Although the notice listed the date, time and place of the meeting, the notice did not include a list 
of topics that the chair reasonably anticipated discussing during the meeting. 
 
The Committee met on January 15, 2025, for approximately 30 minutes and received 
updates on several street safety improvement projects.  The Committee also received updates on 
 
1 City employees who are members of the Committee include department heads from the Department of Public 
Works, Department of Traffic and Parking, Police Department, and Community Development Department.  See 
Cambridge Bicycle Committee Bylaws, Article III 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
the Shepard Street construction project, reviewed two options for a bike lane on that street, 
discussed its preferred option, and suggested traffic calming elements such as curb extensions, 
raised crossings, and speed humps to address speeding. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law applies to public bodies and individuals acting as public body 
membe
rs.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  A “public body” subject to the Open Meeting Law is any 
“multiple-member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or 
legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, 
appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.   
 
To determine whether a multiple member entity is a public body subject to the Open 
Meetin
g Law, there are three factors we consider: 1) the entity must be “within” government and 
not excluded from the definition of “public body;” 2) the entity must be a “body” empowered to 
act collectively; and 3) the entity must serve a “public purpose.”  See OML 2017-118; OML 
2016-102; OML 2012-20; OML 2011-42; OML 2010-1.2   
 
Here, the Committee is clearly within government because it was created by the City 
Manager at the direction of the City Council by Policy Order #22.  See 2024-33; OML 2016-102.  
The Committee also serves a public purpose where the Committee works to improve conditions 
for bicyclists in the City of Cambridge, promote bicycling as a means of transportation and 
improve safety conditions for bicyclists.  Therefore, the Committee satisfies the first and third 
prongs of the public body analysis. 
 
We also find that the Committee is a body empowered to act collectively, and thus it 
satis
fies all three factors for being a public body.  Here, the Committee has a set membership 
from which a quorum can be calculated, and a quorum of members are required for decisions and 
votes.  See OML 2024-73; OML 2015-46.  In addition, the Committee is charged with reviewing 
and commenting on road construction and bicycle-related ordinances, as well as organizing and 
participating in public events and creating materials to encourage bicycling in the city.  We have 
determined that similar conduct constituted collective action by a public body.  See OML 2015-
46; OML 2012-30.  Therefore, the Committee satisfies all three factors for evaluating whether a 
group is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law.   
 
The Committee further contends that it is no
 t a public body because it was created by the 
City Manager, and it therefore falls within the Connelly exception.  The Supreme Judicial Court 
recognized an exemption to the Open Meeting Law in Connelly v. School Committee of 
Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991).  Under the Connelly exception, where an individual public 
official, who themself is not subject to the Open Meeting Law, creates a committee to advise 
them on a decision that they have the sole authority to make, that committee is not subject to the 
Open Meeting Law.  Id., at 235.  See also, e.g., OML 2019-71 (working group fit within 
Connelly exception where it only possessed authority to make recommendations to the Mayor); 
OML 2012-65 (University of Massachusetts Amherst Student Health Insurance Plan Committee 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
was not a public body as it was created by UMass Vice-Chancellor for Student Affairs to advise 
her on a decision she had the sole authority to make). 
 
We find that the Connelly exception does not apply to th e Committee.  Had the City 
Manager created the Committee of his own volition, then the body would likely have fit within 
the Connelly exception because it would have been created by an individual public official to 
advise him on a decision that he retained the sole authority to make, that is, improving conditions 
for bicyclists in the City of Cambridge and promoting bicycling as a means of transportation.  
See OML 2015-93; OML 2014-56.  The distinction here, however, is that the City Manager did 
not create the Committee of his own volition but was rather directed by the City Council to 
create the body for a specific purpose.  Therefore, because a public body directed the creation of 
the Committee, rather than an individual public official, the Committee does not fall within the 
Connelly exception.  See OML 2016-102.  
 
Because the Committee satis
 fies the factors for analyzing whether a group is a public 
body, and does not fall within the Connelly exception, we find that the Committee is a public 
body subject to the Open Meeting Law.  Accordingly, the Committee must post notice of every 
meeting “at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays” and every notice must include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing 
of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b).  The Committee posted notice of the January 15, 2025, meeting to the municipal website 
but the notice failed to include a list of topics the chair reasonably anticipated discussing.  Where 
we find that the Committee posted notice, but did not include any topics, we review the 
complaint as regarding the sufficiency of the notice rather than the failure to post any notice.  
When reviewing a notice for sufficiency, we review what was actually discussed at the meeting 
to determine if the notice was sufficiently detailed to make the public aware of the discussion 
topics.  See OML 2015-101; OML 2015-21.  Here, the Committee met on January 15, 2025, and 
discussed various topics.  Because the Committee discussed specific topics during the meeting, 
we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by posting a notice with insufficient 
specificity.  Although we find a violation, we order no further remedial action here where the 
Committee has publicly posted the January 15, 2025, meeting minutes and where the Committee 
took no substantive action or votes during the meeting.
3  See e.g., OML 2024-96 (finding that 
public body violated Open Meeting Law by failing to timely post meeting notice but declining to 
order nullification where there was no action to nullify as public body did not take any votes 
during meeting).   
 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, w e find that the Committee is a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law and thus violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post a sufficiently 
specific notice of its January 15, 2025, meeting.  We order immediate and future compliance 
with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
3 Notices and minutes of Committee meetings from January 2009 to the present are posted at 
https://www.cambridgema.gov/CDD/Transportation/forthepublic/bicyclecomm.  
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Heather Hoffman – By email only:   
Cambridge Bicycle Committee – By email only: cddat344@cambridgema.gov  
 Cambridge City Clerk– By email only: cityclerk@cambridgema.gov 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
