===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
November 21, 2023  
  
OML 2023 – 201  
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
Elizabeth Lydon, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
227 Union Street, Suite 606 
New Bedford, MA 02740 
  
liz@mtclawyers.com  
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Attorney Lydon:  
 
This office received a complaint from Daniel Albert on July 17, 2023, alleging that the 
Marblehead Complete Streets Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 3 0A,  §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on June  13, 
2023, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated June 23, 2023.1  The 
complainant replied to the Committee’s response by letter dated June 27 and the Committee sent 
a further response by letter dated June 30.  The complainant alleges that the Committee failed to 
post notice of its June 9 meeting at the town’s designated posting location and/or that the notice 
was not timely posted.  Mr. Albert also claims other deficiencies in the notice as well as 
misconduct by the Committee in the execution of its work.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when 
it failed to properly post notice for the June 9 meeting.  In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, each party’s further 
reply, minutes of the June 9 meeting, and the complainant’s request for further review. 
  
FACTS 
  
We find the facts as follows.  Th e Committee filed notice of its June 9 meeting with the 
Town Clerk on June 7.  The June 9 meeting was scheduled for 9:00 a.m.  The notice was 
received by the Clerk’s office and was posted on the bulletin board inside Town Hall prior to 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2023. 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
9:00 a.m. on June 7.  The public did not have 24-hour access to the inside of the Town Hall 
where the notice was posted.  The notice also was posted online on June 7 shortly before 9:00 
a.m.  As of June 7, the Town of Marblehead had not adopted an alternative notice posting 
location.  On August 16, the Select Board adopted the Town’s website, www.marblehead.org, as 
the official notice posting location. 
 
DISCUSSION 
  
Pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, “[e]xcept in an emergency ... a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be “printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and shall contain the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  Id.  For meetings 
of a local public body, unless an alternative posting method has been adopted, the notice must be 
filed with the municipal clerk and posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all 
hours in or on the municipal building in which the clerk’s office is located.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c);  
940 CMR 29.03(2).  The Law allows for alternative methods of posting meeting notices as 
prescribed by the Attorney General.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c).  The Attorney General’s Open 
Meeting Law regulations allow the Chief Executive Officer of a municipality to adopt the 
municipality’s website as the official posting location for meeting notices.  See 940 CMR 
29.03(2)(b).  Once the municipal website has been adopted, “the municipal clerk ... shall file 
with the Attorney General written notice of adoption of the alternative method, including the 
website address where applicable, and any change thereto, and the most current notice posting 
method on file with the Attorney General shall be consistently used.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(c).  
The Attorney General’s Division of Open Government maintains on its website a list of all 
municipalities with information on the notice posting method for each. 
 
There is no dispute that as of June 7, the Town of Marblehead had not adopted its website 
as an alternative notice posting method in accordance with the provisions of the Open Meeting 
Law and the Attorney General’s regulations.  Furthermore, in response to the complaint, the 
Committee does not deny that the location of its physical posting, inside the Town Hall, is not 
visible to the public at all hours.  Instead, the Committee maintains that the meeting notice was 
timely posted on the Marblehead municipal website.  It does appear that the meeting notice was 
posted to the website more than 48 hours in advance, even if just by minutes.  However, at the 
time that the notice for the June 9 meeting was posted, the municipal website was not the Town’s 
chosen official location to post notices.2  Although public bodies are welcome to post notice of 
their meetings in additional locations if they choose, a municipality has only one official notice 
posting location for purposes of complying with the Open Meeting Law and all meeting notices 
must be posted in that location.  See 940 CMR 29.03(2)(c); OML 2023-36; OML 2022-228; 
OML 2021-94; OML 2020-20.3  Therefore, the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it failed to post notice for its June 9 meeting in a manner conspicuously visible to the 
public at all hours in or on the municipal building in which the clerk’s office is located.   
 
2 As noted above, the Town adopted its website as the official notice posting location, and informed the Attorney 
General it had done so, after the filing of Mr. Albert’s complaint. 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-m eeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
The complainant claims numerous other transgressions relative to the June 9 meeting.  
These alleged infractions either fall outside the Open Meeting Law, and therefore outside the 
jurisdiction of the Division is Open Government, or do not amount to a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law.  The Committee’s alleged failure to report its progress and its elimination of bike 
lanes, for example, do not implicate Open Meeting Law.  Nor does the inclusion of topics on the 
meeting notice that the complainant may believe do not warrant discussion.  Spelling errors on 
the meeting notice (discussion of the Committee’s “roll” rather than “role”) do not create such 
ambiguity as to run afoul of the Open Meeting Law.  The list of topics shall have “sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a reasonable member 
of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's 
discussion.  See OML 2023-173; 2015-3 5; OML 2012-71.  We are satisfied that a reasonable 
member of the public could have understood the nature of the Committee’s anticipated topics of 
discussion as listed, spelling mistakes notwithstanding. 
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it failed to properly post notice for the June 9 meeting.  We order the Committee’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Committee that a 
determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
  
  
Matt
hew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
  
cc: Dan Albert (via e-mail: )  
 Marblehead Complete Streets Committee (via e-mail: KezerT@marblehead.org) 
 Marblehead Town Clerk (via e- mail: Clerk@marblehead.org) 
  
  
   
  

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
  
 