===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 15, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 84 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Thomas Urbelis, Esq.  
Town Counsel, Town of Andover  
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Urbelis: 
 
This office received a complaint from Kathleen Grant on October 25, 2021,1 alleging that 
the Andover Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about September 6, and you responded 
on behalf of the Board by letter dated September 20. The complaint alleges, among other things, 
that the Board’s August 12 meeting was inaccessible to the public.2   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law where its 
August 12 meeting was inaccessible to the public. In reaching this determination we reviewed 
the original Open Meeting Law complaint; the Board’s response; the request for further review, 
including additional documentation provided by the Complainant; the notice for the Board’s 
August 12 meeting; and a video recording of the meeting.3 Additionally, we communicated with 
Counsel for the Board4 by email.  
 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2021, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The Complainant raises an additional allegation in her request for further review. Because this allegation was not 
raised in an Open Meeting Law complaint filed with the Board, we decline to review it. Potential violations 
discovered after a complaint has been filed with a public body should be alleged in a subsequent complaint filed 
with that body. This allows the public body an opportunity to investigate and take appropriate remedial action with 
respect to the additional allegation. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3). 
3 A video recording of the Board’s August 12 meeting may be found at https://andoverma.gov/AgendaCenter/Select -
Board-13/?#_08122021-4305.  
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the relevant facts to be as follows. On August 10, the Board posted notice for a 
meeting to be held on August 12. The notice included several open session topics and an 
executive session topic. At the top of the notice the following information appeared: 
 
Select Board Meeting 
Thursday, August 12, 2021 8:30 AM 
Virtual Meeting to be Recorded  
 
The notice did not include any access information, or instructions for obtaining such information. 
Instead, the notice stated  
 
Every e ffort will be made to ensure that the public can adequately access the 
proceedings in real time via technological means. In the event that we are unable to 
do so despite our best eff []orts, we will post on the Town’s website an audio or 
video recording, transcript, or other comprehensive record of the proceedings as 
soon as possible after the meeting. 
 
On August 10, a member of the public sent an email to the Chair of the Board and the 
Town Clerk5 stating that the notice for the August 12 meeting did not include access information, 
asking what portion of the meeting would be open to the public, and asking when the access 
information would be made available to the public. The following day, the Chair responded via 
email explaining that the August 12 meeting did not include a public comment portion and that 
the meeting would be recorded and available to view on Andover Television.  
 
On August 12, the Board convened as scheduled and conducted a short open session 
meeting before convening in executive session. The meeting was held entirely remotely, and no 
means were provided for the public to access the open session portion of the meeting in real 
time. A video recording of the meeting was posted to Andover Television’s video archive 
following the meeting. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We Decline to Review All But One Allegation Raised in the Complaint. 
 
We decline to review all allegations raised in the complaint other than the allegation that 
the Board’s August 12 meeting was inaccessible to the public. The remaining allegations relate 
to public comment and who may speak at a meeting; posting meeting minutes to a website; 
whether the Board addresses certain topics; and the order in which notice topics are taken up. 
None of these allegations, even if true, constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law. The 
Division of Open Government’s statutory authority concerns compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25; therefore, we decline to review these allegations. See OML 
 
5 At the time of this email exchange, the Town Clerk was Austin Simko. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners); OML Declination 5-
21-12 (Hampden-Wilbraham Regional School Committee).6 
 
II. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law When Its August 12 Meeting Was 
Inaccessible to the Public.  
 
At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement that meetings of public bodies be 
open and accessible to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except when meeting in executive 
session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”). Generally, access to a 
meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and hear what is 
being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54. On 
June 16, 2021, Governor Baker signed into law An Act Relative To Extending Certain COVID-
19 Measures Adopted During the State of Emergency, Chapter 20 of the Acts of 2021 (“Chapter 
20”). Section 20 of Chapter 20 extended, until April 1, 2022, the remote meeting provisions 
established in Governor Baker’s March 12, 2020, Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 20 (“Executive Order”).7  
 
Relevant here, the Executive Order, and subsequent legislation, suspended the 
requirement that meetings be held in locations that are physically accessible to the public, 
provided that the public body provide “adequate, alternative means” of public access. “Adequate, 
alternative means of public access” means measures that enable “the public to clearly follow the 
proceedings of the public body while those activities are occurring.” Chapter 20, § 20 (a) 
(emphasis added). Chapter 20, like the Executive Order, includes an exception to the requirement 
to provide real-time access to a public body’s proceedings, but only in cases where, due to 
economic hardship and despite best efforts, a municipality is unable to provide real-time access. 
Chapter 20, § 20 (b). We have consistently found that this exception only applies where a public 
body is unable to provide real-time access to its meetings due to both economic hardship and 
despite best efforts. See e.g., OML 2020-107; OML 2021-166.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Board’s August 12 meeting was inaccessible where it was 
held remotely with no means of access for the public to witness the proceedings in real time. The 
Board does not dispute that the public was unable to access its August 12 meeting in real time. 
Instead, the Board explains that the open session portion of the meeting was brief, lasting 
approximately eleven minutes; the open session portion was video recorded; and the video 
recording and minutes of the meeting have been posted online. None of these facts relieves the 
Board of its obligation to provide the public with real-time access to its open session 
proceedings. The Board does not assert that it was unable to provide real-time access to the 
meeting due to economic hardship, nor does the Board identify any efforts that were made to 
provide real-time access to the meeting. Therefore, we find that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law.8 See OML 2020-107; OML 2021-8. 
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
7 These provisions have again been extended until July 15, 2022. 
8 We remind the Board that before entering executive session, a public body must convene in open session to 
perform certain procedural steps as outlined in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21 (a) & (b). The public has 
a right to witness these procedural steps. See OML 2013-195; OML 2019-160. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
   
Next, we must determine whether the Board’s violation was, as the complainant urges, 
intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public 
body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. 
An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of 
the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law. Id. In support of her assertion that the Board acted intentionally to violate the 
Law, the Complainant notes the email exchange between the Chair, Town Clerk, and member of 
the public in which access information was requested prior to the August 12 meeting. Although 
we appreciate that a member of the public brought this issue to the attention of the Chair and the 
Town Clerk, we do not find these emails to constitute evidence that the Board acted to 
intentionally violate the Law. Instead, we find that the Board seriously—but sincerely—
misunderstood the requirements of the Open Meeting Law and Chapter 20 to provide real-time 
access to its meetings. Therefore, we decline to find the violation to have been intentional in this 
instance.  
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
where its August 12 meeting was inaccessible to the public. We order the Board’s immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that similar future violations could be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by 
this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that 
may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 
963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Christian Huntress, Chair, Andover Select Board (via e-mail: 
) 
Melissa Ripley, Andover Town Clerk (via e-mail:  
Kathleen Grant (via email:   
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
