===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 23, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 98 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Michael Cunningham, Esq. 
Town Counsel, Town of Arlington 
mcunningham@town.arlington.ma.us 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Cunningham: 
 
This office received a complaint from Paul Pandolfo on March 6, 2026, alleging that the 
Arlington Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on January 6, 2026, and you responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated January 27, 2026. The complaint alleges that 1) the Board 
provided insufficient notice of its December 8, 2025, meeting, 2) the Board permitted individuals 
to make defaming remarks against the complainant during the meeting, 3) the conduct of the 
meeting violated G.L. c. 87,
 1 4) the Board failed to impartially hear the complainant’s case for 
tree removal, and 5) the Board deliberated outside of a meeting.2 
 
Following our review, we find that notice of the December 8, 2025, meeting was 
sufficiently specific and that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We decline to 
review the remaining allegations in the complaint. In reaching this determination, we reviewed 
the Open Meeting Law complaint and attachments, the Board’s response, the request for further 
review, as well as the notice, minutes, and recording3 of the December 8 meeting. 
 
1 General Laws Chapter 87 governs the planting, removal, and management of shade trees within the 
Commonwealth. G.L. c. 87, §§ 1-13. It defines shade trees and the powers of municipal tree wardens, and 
establishes procedures, including public hearings, for the removal of shade trees. G.L. c. 87, §§ 1-5, 13. It further 
provides procedures for the planting of shade trees, a private right of action for those injured by a shade tree in 
certain circumstances, and penalties for violating Chapter 87. G.L. c. 87, §§ 6-12. 
2 We note that the complainant did not sign the complaint filed with the Board. Although a “public body need not 
address a complaint that is not signed by the complainant,” here the Board responded to the complaint and we 
review the merits of the complaint. See 940 CMR 29.05(1); OML 2025-59, n.2; OML 2023-128, n.1; OML 2020-
99, n.2; OML 2012-11, n.1. However, we remind the complainant that Open Meeting Law complaint forms must be 
signed. 
3 A recording of the December 8 meeting can be found here. 
(https://youtu.be/r1fx0xpOSXs?si=5IolavCjxWx5Ta79&t=2375) 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. As early as March 18, 2025,4 the complainant 
submitted a request to the Arlington Tree Warden, Tim Lecuivre, to remove or transplant a tree 
near the complainant’s residence in Arlington. The Tree Warden denied the complainant’s tree 
removal request on October 28. On November 25, the complainant submitted an appeal of the 
Tree Warden’s decision to the Board. The Board posted a notice of a meeting to be held on 
December 8, which included the topic “15. For Approval: Elm Tree Removal @ 53 Churchill 
Avenue Paul Pandolfo” (bold added). The meeting took place as scheduled, and the Board held 
a public hearing on the tree removal appeal. At the start of the hearing, the Chair of the Board, 
Diane M. Mahon, noted that the complainant’s project “already ran afoul of [the Arlington] 
Bylaws.” Town Counsel, Attorney Michael Cunningham,
5 then noted that a violation of the 
bylaws was “not clear,” that it was “in dispute,” and was not before the Board. 
 
Later in the hearing, after the complainant presented his grounds for appeal, Attorney 
Cunningham again stated that the only issue before the Board was the question of the tree 
removal appeal under G.L. c. 87, § 4, and not any issues arising under Town zoning bylaws. The 
Tree Warden explained the reasons for his denial of the complainant’s removal request, noting 
that the tree roots had likely been compromised as the result of the complainant’s driveway 
work, and that he would have to wait until the springtime to verify the health of the tree. 
Members of the Board asked the Tree Warden about the health of the tree, with Board member 
Mr. DeCourcey noting that the Tree Warden may not need Board approval to remove the tree if 
the Tree Warden finds, in the springtime, that the tree had been damaged. The Board then 
recognized five members of the public for comment, all of whom spoke in favor of preserving 
the tree. The Board then permitted the complainant a brief rebuttal, before members of the Board 
engaged in a discussion about the appeal. Following this discussion, the Board voted 4-0 to deny 
the complainant’s appeal. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
1. The Notice of the December 8 Meeting was Sufficiently Specific. 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting. Id. The listing of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider 
a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic 
and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2023-114; 2022-
239.6 Where a public body’s discussion naturally flows from its consideration of the posted 
 
4 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
5 For simplicity, we refer to you in the third person. 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
agenda topic, the notice was sufficient to inform the public of the discussion that occurred. See 
OML 2023-114; OML 2022-239; OML 2018-14. 
 
Although the complaint is somewhat unclear, we read it to allege that the notice of the 
December 8 meeting lacked sufficient specificity because it failed to include as a topic of 
discussion the complainant’s alleged violation of the Arlington Tree Protection bylaws. The 
Open Meeting Law does not require a meeting notice to list all tangential issues related to a 
particular topic. See OML 2024-106; OML 2021-114; OML 2016-120. Here, we are satisfied 
that the Chair merely made a passing reference to Town bylaws that was quickly corrected by 
Town counsel. The Board did not conduct a hearing on a bylaw violation. To the extent the 
Board discussed the possible damage to the Tree, allegedly caused by the complainant, we find 
such discussion was related to, and naturally flowed from, the tree removal appeal hearing. If the 
Tree Warden found damage to the tree in the spring, it appears the Warden would have been able 
to remove the damaged tree, without Board approval, at the complainant’s expense. See G.L. c. 
87, § 5 (allowing the Tree Warden to remove trees which endanger persons traveling on a 
highway, without approval from town selectmen); see also Valvoline Oil Co. v. Inhabitants of 
Town of Winthrop, 235 Mass. 515, 520 (1920) (same). Thus, the discussion of possible damage 
to the tree was relevant to the question of approving or denying the complainant’s tree removal 
appeal. The Board only conducted the tree removal appeal hearing, which was a topic listed on 
the notice. We therefore find that the listed agenda topic was sufficiently specific for a 
reasonable member of the public to understand the anticipated nature of the Board’s discussion 
and that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
2. We Decline to Review the Remaining Allegations. 
We read the complaint to also allege that the Board violated provisions of G.L. c. 87 on 
several counts, including that the Board did not impartially hear the complainant’s case for a tree 
removal, and that the Board allowed individuals to make unsubstantiated and defaming remarks 
against the complainant. The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance only 
with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Even if true, these allegations would not 
constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law. We have previously declined to review 
complaints alleging that a public body has violated c. 87, or that a public body subjected a 
complainant to hostile treatment. See OML 2019-138, n.2. Likewise, we decline to review such 
allegations here. 
 
To the extent that the complaint alleges the Board provided insufficient notice to the 
complainant, we decline to review this allegation. The Open Meeting Law does not require 
additional notice of an open session meeting beyond the meeting notice itself. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). To the extent that G.L. c. 87 or the Arlington Town Bylaws require individual notice, we 
decline to review such an allegation for the same reasons discussed above. 
 
Finally, the complaint appears to allege, in “Complaint No. 2”, that the Chair of the 
Board engaged in deliberations with a quorum of the Board, outside a meeting. However, the 
complaint does not cite to any improper communication outside a meeting. As it is unclear what 
is being alleged, we decline to review this allegation. Open Meeting Law complaints must allege 
violations with a degree of specificity. Our office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
based on generalized allegations. See OML 2026-10, n.6; OML 2021-129; OML 2016-57; OML 
2012-106. 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
        
 
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
Assisted by Ian Harvey, Legal Intern 
 
cc: Diane M. Mahon (via email: dmahon@town.arlington.ma.us )  
Paul Pandolfo  
Arlington Town Clerk (via email: jbrazile@town.arlington.ma.us) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
