===PAGE 1===
      
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
January 26, 2011 
OML 2011-6 
Sharma R. Reed 
Assistant City Solicitor 
59 Court Street 
Westfield, MA 01085 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Reed, 
This office has reviewed a complaint filed by Mr. Richard Roy dated January 6, 2011, 
alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by the Westfield City 
Council (the "Council"). Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Council violated the Open 
Meeting Law by holding, "an illegal public hearing on the matter of a First Reading of the 
Proposed 1.897 million dollar Westfield Court Square Green Construction & Landscaping Bond 
Proposal," and that, "[t]he public hearing had not been advertised or posted, as required by the 
MA Open Meeting Law." The complaint was originally filed with the Council on December 2, 
2010. The Council's response to the complaint was dated December 23, 2010, and was issued 
by the City's Law Department. 
We find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the complaints filed on December 2, 2010 and January 6, 2011, the 
December 23, 2010 response to the complaint by the Westfield Law Department, the meeting 
notice for the November 18, 2010 meeting, and the minutes of the November 18, 2010 and the 
December 16, 2010 Council meetings. 
On November 18, 2010, the Council met to consider, among other topics, the "First 
reading of Bond Order for Park Square Green and Main Street/Broad Street Project - 
$1,897,000.00." This topic was listed in the meeting notice under the category "Unfinished 
Business." The minutes reviewed by this office indicate that during consideration of the bond 
order, the Council entertained comments from the public. Specifically, the Council allowed 
three members of the public to speak in favor of the bond order, and three members to speak 
against the bond order. The complainant was one of the three members of the public who spoke 
===PAGE 2===
against the bond order. Following public comment on the bond order, the Council passed the 
order to a second reading by a vote of 10 to 3. 
The complaint alleges that by opening consideration of the bond order to public 
comment, the Council engaged in a public hearing, and thus violated state law by holding a 
public hearing without following the proper procedure to notice and convene such a hearing. 
The Open Meeting Law establishes the procedures that public bodies are required to follow when 
convening meetings, as that term is defined in the statute.1  Accordingly, our review of the facts 
is limited to whether we are able to find an Open Meeting Law violation. We do not review, and 
accordingly, offer no opinion on whether there was any violation of any public hearing law. 
Here, the facts as we have reviewed them do not support a fmding that the Council 
violated the Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting Law states that, "[n]o person shall address a 
meeting of a public body without permission of the chair." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). The Open 
Meeting Law gives the chair of the public body the discretion to allow public participation in a 
meeting. Therefore, the Council cannot violate the Open Meeting Law by allowing public 
comment on an item that was included on a meeting notice. While the Open Meeting Law 
requires that the chair list on the meeting notice all topics anticipated for discussion 48 hours 
before the meeting, there is no requirement that the meeting notice contain a specific notice for 
public comment on those topics. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
In addition, the complainant alleges that the Council failed to adequately respond to the 
initial complaint. Specifically, the complainant stated that the Council authorized the Westfield 
City Law Department to address the complaint without the Council first reviewing it as a public 
body. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, "[t]he public body shall, within 14 business days of 
receipt of a complaint, send a copy of the complaint to the attorney general and notify the 
attorney general of any remedial action taken." The Attorney General's Open Meeting Law 
Regulations further provide that, "the public body shall review the complaint's allegations; take 
remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a 
description of any remedial action taken." 940 CMR. 29.05(5). According to the minutes of the 
Council's December 16, 2010 meeting, the Council voted to authorize the City's Law 
Department to, "answer a complaint relative to the Open Meeting Law Complaint against the 
City Council." The minutes further state that, "[p]rior to the vote, Councilor [Brian] Sullivan 
informed the Councilors that the complaint is relative to him allowing public participation, under 
suspension of the rules, that was not on the Agenda at the November 18th, 2010 City Council 
meeting relative to the Park Square Green bond request." 
Though a public body may authorize an individual or department of municipal 
government to respond on the public body's behalf, we remind the Council that the Open 
Meeting Law and the Attorney General's regulations require that the Council first review the 
Open Meeting Law complaint. The public body may meet in executive session under purpose 1 
to review the complaint, if it so chooses. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). 
1  "Meeting" is defined as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body's jurisdiction." The definition of "meeting" includes five exceptions, none of which are 
relevant here. 
===PAGE 3===
Sincerely 
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this 
determination, please do not hesitate to contact me at the number below. 
Jo athan Sclarsic 
f ssistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
617-963-2045 
cc: Westfield City Council 
Richard Roy 