===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Howard L. Greenspan, Esq. 
200 Broadway, Suite 304 
Lynnfield, MA 01940 
June 26, 2018 
OML 2018-95 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Greenspan: 
This office received three related complaints from Mark Vogler of The Saugus Advocate 
alleging that the Saugus School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The first complaint was filed with the Committee on February 12, and 
the Committee responded by letter dated March 6.1 This complaint was then filed with our 
office on March 21. The second complaint was filed with the Committee on March 6, and the 
Committee responded by letter dated March 30.2 This complaint was then filed with our office 
on April 9. Finally, the third complaint was filed with the Committee on March 24, and the 
Committee responded by letter on April 9. This third complaint was then filed with our office on 
April 30. In the complaints, Mr. Vogler alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law by: (i) holding meetings at locations other than those listed on the meeting notices; (ii) 
posting insufficiently detailed meeting notices, and (iii) creating insufficiently detailed meeting 
minutes. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
meeting in a location other than what was listed on the meeting notice and posting insufficiently 
detailed meeting notices. Additionally, we find that the Committee convened in executive 
session without a proper statutory purpose. However, we find that the Committee's January 30 
open session meeting minutes meet the minimum requirements of the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Committee's responses, and 
the requests for further review filed with our office. We reviewed the notices of Committee 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018. 
2 While not raised in the complaint, we remind the Committee that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 
business days after receiving a complaint, unless an extension has been granted by the Attorney General, a public 
body must review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General 
a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
O 
===PAGE 2===
meetings held on January 30 and March 8, 15, and 22, and we reviewed, in camera, the minutes 
of an executive session held on January 30. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee posted notice of a meeting to be held on 
January 30, stating that the Committee would convene in open session at 3:30 P.M, moving 
immediately into executive session to discuss "non-unit contract negotiations," and then 
reconvening in open session. The notice listed the meeting location as follows: 
School Committee Room 
23 Main Street 
Saugns, MA 01906 
On January 30, the Committee convened in open session in a conference room typically 
utilized by the superintendent, which is distinct from the Committee's usual meeting room. The 
Committee chair stated the purpose for the executive session— "for the purpose of discussing 
contract negotiations with non-contract personnel"—and the Committee voted to enter executive 
session. The January 30 open session meeting minutes, which the Committee approved on 
February 8, state that the meeting took place "at the Roby School Building," but they do not state 
that the meeting began in the superintendent's conference room. The minutes reflect the chair's 
statement and show that each Committee member voted to enter executive session. The minutes 
of the executive session have not yet been released, and we therefore do not recount their 
contents in detail. We note generally that the Committee did not discuss any individual 
employee, instead discussing non-union personnel as a collective group. Upon completion of the 
executive session discussion, the Committee continued the balance of the meeting in open 
session in its usual meeting room. 
The Committee posted notices for meetings to be held on March 8, 15, and 22. These 
notices listed the location as "Roby Administrative Building" and gave the street address. The 
notices did not specify the room in which the Committee would meet, and the Committee did not 
provide any signage in the building to direct members of the public to the meeting room. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Committee Violated the Open Meeting Law by Convening in a Location 
Other Than the One Listed on the Meeting Notice. 
Public bodies must post notice of all meetings stating "the date, time and place of such 
meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Prior to entering executive session, a public body must convene 
in open session. G. L. c. 30A, § 22(b)(1). A majority of members of the body must vote to go 
into executive session; the chair must state the purpose for the executive session, stating all 
subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session 
was called; and the chair must state whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of 
the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 22(b)(2) -(4). 
Here, the complaints allege that the Committee violated the law by holding its January 30 
executive session in a location other than the one listed on the meeting notice. Indeed, while the 
2 
===PAGE 3===
notice stated that the meeting would take place in the Committee's regular meeting room, the 
Committee convened in a separate room to complete the required procedural steps before 
convening in executive session. The public has a right to witness these procedural steps in order 
to observe the vote and learn the purpose for the executive session. See OML 2013-195.3 
Because the January 30 meeting notice inaccurately identified the location where those 
procedural steps would take place, members of the public were denied this right. We find that 
the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law with respect to this allegation. Based on 
conversation with the Committee's legal counsel, we understand that the Committee will 
discontinue the practice of convening in superintendent's conference room. We commend this 
remedial step. 
II. The Committee Posted Insufficiently Detailed Meeting Notices on Certain 
Occasions. Further, the Committee Convened an Executive Session Without a 
Proper Statutory Purpose. 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice of a meeting at least 48 
hours in advance, including a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b), Public bodies must list topics on a notice with 
"sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2014-47. We generally consider a topic sufficiently 
specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the 
anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35. Public bodies may enter 
a closed, executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. One 
permissible reason to convene in executive session is "[t]o conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) ("Purpose 
2"). 
The complaints allege that the Committee's meeting notices were insufficiently detailed 
in two respects. First, the complaints allege that the Committee provided too little information 
about the topics to be discussed during the January 30 executive session. When convening in 
executive session under Purpose 2, public bodies must identify the name of the specific non-
union personnel that is the subject of discussion, unless disclosure would compromise the 
Committee's negotiating position. See OML 2015-193; OML 2016-70. Here, the Committee 
could not have identified the non-union personnel, because the discussion did not address any 
individual employees. Rather, it was a more general conversation that would reach beyond any 
single employee or bargaining unit. This raises other concerns, however. In prior 
determinations, we have determined that such deliberations are skin to a budget discussion and 
may take place only in open session. See OML 2015-63; OML 2014-30. Accordingly, we 
conclude that the Committee's January 30 executive session discussion lacked a proper statutory 
purpose and should have been held in open session. 
The complaints also allege that the Committee's March 8, 15, and 22 notices were vague 
with respect to the location of the meetings. We note that, while previous notices had listed the 
specific room in which the meeting would take place, these later notices listed only the address 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
1 
of the building. We have found a violation in similar circumstances in prior determinations, 
noting that members of the public should not have to guess where in a building a meeting is 
being held. See OML 2017-179; OML 2014-21.4 Furthermore, it appears that the Committee's 
earlier notices provided more fulsome information about the meeting location—including the 
specific room in which the meeting would take place—and that this information was omitted 
from the March notices at issue. On these facts, we find that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law with respect to this allegation. 
III. The Committee's January 30 Open Session Meeting Minutes are Sufficiently 
Detailed. 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to "create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2013-47; OML 2013-16; OML 2012-29. 
Here, the complaints allege that the Committee's January 30 open session minutes lack 
required details. Specifically, the complaints allege that the January 30 minutes do not list the 
location of the meeting, do contain the chair's required statement prior to entering executive 
session, and do not state the purpose for the executive session. Because the minutes contain the 
Committee's roll call vote and the chair's required statement, we find that the minutes are 
sufficient in those respects. Further, as the complaint correctly alleges, the minutes state that the 
January 30 meeting took place "at the Roby School Building." We conclude that this description 
of the place of the meeting is sufficient. While meeting notices must include a level of detail 
sufficient to allow members of the public to find the meeting room and witness public body 
deliberations, the role of including the place of a meeting in minutes is different. By the time a 
reader is reviewing meeting minutes, the deliberation has already taken place, and the reader is 
looking to the minutes merely to understand where a meeting occurred, not to pinpoint its 
location. We therefore conclude that the Committee's January 30 meeting minutes meet the 
minimum requirements of the Open Meeting Law, though we encourage the Committee to 
include additional detail in future minutes, including specific meeting room. See G.L. c. 3OA, § 
22(a). 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We order the Committee's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and 
we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
Furthermore, because a discussion took place during the January 30 executive session that lacked 
a proper purpose, we order the Committee to release these executive session minutes to the 
public within thirty (30) days of receipt of this letter. The Committee may not redact or withhold 
4 It is not always mandatory to list a specific meeting room on a notice. In circumstances where it is immediately 
apparent where a meeting will be held—for example, if a building has only one meeting room, or if signage is 
posted directing members of the public to the specific meeting room—a public body may list the meeting location 
by street address only. Here, the Committee clearly utilized multiple meeting rooms, and it did not provide signage 
directing members of the public to the appropriate meeting room. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
these minutes or any portion thereof based on privilege or any exemption under the Public 
Records Law. See G.L. c. 4, § 7, cl. 26. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Mark Vogler, The Saugus Advocate 
Saugus School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
5 