===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
October 12, 2018 
OML 2018-137
Joseph Macy, Corporation Counsel 
City of Fall River 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Macy:
This office received a complaint from Mr. Patrick Higgins, dated July 17, alleging that 
the Fall River City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18- 
25.’ The complaint was originally filed with the Council on June 14, and after receiving one 
extension of time to respond, the Council responded by letter dated July 2. In his complaint, Mr. 
Higgins alleges that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by whispering to other members 
of the Council in a volume that was barely audible and that could not be heard by the public.
Following our review, we resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 
CME- 29.07(2)(a), and we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. The 
Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding deliberations and 
decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge, 376 
Mass.70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A “deliberation” is 
defined as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, 
between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; 
provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of other procedural 
meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided 
that no opinion of a member is expressed.” Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a 
“quorum” is a simple majority of the member of the public body. Id.
The complaint alleges that member(s) of the Council whispered inaudibly to other 
members of the Council, which could not be heard by members of the public. The complaint 1
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.

===PAGE 2===
does not specific which Council members were believed to have whispered, or at what point in 
the meeting. We have reviewed the video recording of the Council’s June 14 meeting2 - which 
was only four minutes long in its entirety - and see no indication of any whispering among 
Council members, and certainly not among a quorum of members. Accordingly, we conclude 
that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions.
_ ^
Carrie Benedon
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Patrick  Higgins
Fall River City Council
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
2 The video recording of the June 14, 2018, Fall River City Council meeting is available at 
vod.frgtv.us/video/275220389. The City Council meeting begins at approximately the 5:22:00 mark.
