===PAGE 1===
     
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
February 16, 2011 
OML 2011 - 12 
David Murphy 
Chair, City Council Committee on Public Safety 
City Hall 
210 Main St. 
Northampton, MA 01060 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Murphy, 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Phillip Brocklesby dated December 2, 2010 
alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by the Northampton City 
Council's Committee on Public Safety (the "Committee"). Specifically, the complaint alleges 
that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when, after adjourning its regular meeting on 
September 7, 2010, the Committee "engaged in a conversation with two reporters that were 
present," and that during the discussion, "the quorum discussed their viewpoints and how they 
were going to vote as committee members on the topic that was the issue of the meeting that was 
just adjourned." The complaint also alleges the Committee failed to "post the time and place of 
the Public Safety Committee meeting in a conspicuous place." The complaint was originally 
filed with the Committee on September 30, 2010. The Committee's response to the complaint 
was received by this office on October 14, 2010. 
We reviewed the September 30, 2010 complaint filed with Committee, the October 14, 
2010 response by the Committee, and the December 2, 2010 complaint filed with our office. We 
also reviewed the video recording of the meeting provided by the complainant. 
Based on our review of the information provided, we find that the Committee did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law in posting a notice for the September 7, 2010 meeting. With 
regard to the allegations that a quorum of the Committee deliberated outside of an appropriately 
posted meeting, the evidence does not definitively support a determination. While we do not 
reach a determination in this matter, we find that the requirement of transparency that is the 
hallmark of the Open Meeting Law was preserved by the actions taken by the Committee 
===PAGE 2===
immediately following the interview. 
FACTS 
From review of the video of the September 7, 2010 Committee meeting, it is clear that 
the following occurred: 
The Committee convened a meeting to discuss a recommendation to the City Council 
regarding an override to fund construction of new public safety facilities. Three of the four 
Committee members were present. After the Chair opened the meeting, the Committee members 
decided to table consideration of the override until the fourth member of the Committee would 
be able to participate in a meeting. This motion to table passed, and the Chair adjourned the 
meeting. The entire meeting lasted about ten minutes. No substantive discussion took place 
regarding the override. 
Two reporters were present in the room, one who sat in the audience and one who was 
filming the meeting. These individuals have been identified by the complainant as Mr. David 
Reid and Mr. Adam Cohen, respectively. As the members of the Committee prepared to leave, 
Mr. Reid began asking them questions. Initially the questions covered the reason for scheduling 
a special meeting. Following this discussion, Mr. Reid asked the Committee members about 
their support for the override issue which had just been tabled. The three members of the 
Committee remained at the Committee table, answered the questions and offered their opinions 
regarding the override. The members of the Committee responded to Mr. Reid's questions, and 
each explained that they would vote in favor of endorsing the override. They discussed Mr. 
Reid's questions, and as one member shared an opinion, others nodded. At one point, Mr. Cohen 
also asked a question regarding the override, and all three members of the Committee responded. 
The minutes of the meeting state that, "[a]fter the meeting adjourned David Reid asked 
several questions of the committee members. This conversation was recorded by Mr. Cohen and 
is posted on the North Street Neighborhood Association website." 
A copy of the meeting notice for the Committee's September 7, 2010 meeting was 
provided to the complainant by the City Clerk's office. The notice contains a hand-written time 
stamp stating that the notice was posted on September 2, 2010 at 1:31 p.m. Prior to the 
September 7, 2010 Committee meeting, a message was posted on the official city meeting notice 
bulletin board which was labeled "Committee on Public Safety" and stated, "[t]here will be no 
meeting in September 2010." The city clerk stated in an ,email dated Wednesday October 6, 
2010 that, It]he cancellation of the September Public Safety Committee that was posted on the 
bulletin board in the municipal building was never brought to the City Clerk's Office for proper 
posting." 
DISCUSSION  
1. The Discussion with Reporters After the September 7, 2010 Meeting 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
2 
===PAGE 3===
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)—(b), 21. The Open Meeting Law defmes a "meeting" as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided 
that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. 
On September 7, 2010, the Committee adjourned the meeting, and then answered 
questions posed by two reporters regarding the override endorsement which had just been tabled. 
The initial discussion with Mr. Reid about the scheduling of the meeting was appropriate. 
While the Open Meeting Law defines deliberation as "an oral or written 
communication...between or among a quorum of a public body" it excludes "scheduling 
information." See G.L. c. 30A, §18. However, once the conversation with Mr. Reid and a 
quorum of the Committee members turned to a substantive discussion about the Committee 
members' support for a topic which had not yet been discussed by the Committee, the 
Committee tread close to engaging in a deliberation. The reporters posed questions to the 
Committee members as a whole, and each member answered the questions, sometimes nodding 
or turning to a fellow member. It is not clear to us that this exchange reached the level of a 
communication "between or among a quorum." However, we are also cognizant of the 
appearance of deliberating that may have been conveyed by the Committee in this particular 
situation. Ultimately, the evidence before us leads us to conclude that the Committee clearly did 
not act with any intent to circumvent the spirit of the Open Meeting Law. The Committee 
answered the reporters' questions with the understanding that their answers would be 
disseminated to the public. They were also aware that they were being recorded on video for 
public broadcast. The Committee also acknowledged the discussion in the meeting minutes and 
referenced the location where members of the public may access the recording. Accordingly, 
any questions about the Committee's actions on September 7, 2010 with regard to a deliberation 
outside of a posted meeting are resolved by the actions taken immediately following the meeting. 
The spirit of the Open Meeting Law is upheld and the Committee acted appropriately to remedy 
any appearance of a violation. 
2. Notice Posting for the September 7, 2010 Meeting 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to "post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays." G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). For local public bodies, the law requires that the "notice shall be filed with the 
municipal clerk and posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on 
the municipal building in which the clerk's office is located." 
The complaint alleges that the notice posting did not conform to the requirements of the 
Open Meeting Law. The meeting notice for the September 7, 2010 meeting provided by the city 
clerk, at the request of the complainant, shows a posting date of September 2, 2010. This notice 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Sincere 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
617-963-2045 
was posted more than 48 hours in advance of the September 7, 2010 Committee meeting. There 
was also apparently a notice stating that no meetings of the Committee would take place in the 
month of September, 2010. The city clerk stated in an email dated Wednesday October 6, 2010 
that, "[t]he cancellation of the September Public Safety Committee that was posted on the 
bulletin board in the municipal building was never brought to the City Clerk's Office for proper 
posting." 
Because the meeting notice announcing the September 7, 2010 meeting was properly 
posted with the city clerk, and the notice cancelling the meeting was not properly posted with the 
city clerk, we find that the Committee met its obligations for providing notice under the Open 
Meeting Law. We encourage the Committee to be attentive to future notice postings to ensure 
that there are no conflicting notices which may confuse the public. 
CONCLUSION 
We decline to issue a determination whether the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law when answering two reporters' questions following a September 7, 2010 meeting. In the 
future, we caution members of public bodies to remain cognizant of the law and be careful not to 
engage in deliberations between or among a quorum outside of an appropriately posted meeting. 
When a quorum of the Committee is being interviewed by the press, they should take precautions 
to avoid an actual or perceived deliberation. Interaction with media by members of public bodies 
is encouraged because it increases public dialogue and, ideally, transparency. However, the 
Open Meeting Law still applies. 
We do not believe any further action is warranted, and hope that this letter will help guide 
public bodies in the future. We commend the Committee members for openly addressing 
questions from members of the press, and we encourage them to do so in the future. 
If you have any questions regarding this letter, please do not hesitate to contact me at the 
number below. 
cc: Philip H. Brocklesby 
4 