===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
October 16, 2019
OML 2019-130
Brian W. Riley, Esq.
KP Law, P.C.
101 Arch Street, 12th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Riley:
This office received a complaint from Attorney Alexander Furey on January 25, 2019, 
alleging that the Berlin Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Board on December 5, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated December 18. The complaint alleges that, 
during a November 5 meeting, the Board failed to deliberate about a liquor license prior to its 
unanimous vote to grant a license to one of two applicants.
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, as well as the documents attached 
to that request for further review. We also reviewed the notices and open session minutes of the 
Board’s October 29, November 5 and November 26 meetings, the Board’s November 26 
decision regarding an All-Alcoholic Beverages License, and the transcript of a February 7, 2019, 
hearing before the Alcoholic Beverages Control Commission.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board is the local licensing authority in the town of 
Berlin and a three-member public body, thus two members constitute a quorum. In early August 
of 2018, the Board received two applications for one All-Alcohol Beverages License. The 
applications were submitted by Highland Commons LQR LLC (“Highland Commons”) and 
RWJ Beverage LLC (“RWJ”).
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
o

===PAGE 2===
On or about October 3, Board Chair Christine Keefe and Board Administrative Secretary 
Mary Arata met with Jed Hayes of Benderson Corporation, which company was overseeing the 
development of a liquor store for Highland Commons in the Town. The discussions revolved 
around the history of a recently revoked All-Alcohol Beverages License.
The Board duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on October 29 at 6:45 P.M. The 
notice included, among other topics, a public hearing for an All-Alcohol Beverages “Package 
Store” License and listed the two applicants - Highland Commons and RWJ - for the one 
available liquor license.
The October 29 meeting was held as planned and the Board held a public hearing for the 
one All-Alcohol Beverages License. The Board first heard from two attorneys and a manager for 
Highland Commons who stated that Highland Commons proposed opening a 14,725 square foot 
store which would result in over $31,000 in tax payments to the Town each year. Highland 
Commons would employ 25 individuals and offer a larger selection of beverages at more 
affordable prices. A member of the Economic Development Committee and a member of the 
Planning Board, as well as an abutter, spoke in favor of Highland Commons. The Board then 
heard from two attorneys and a manager for RWJ who advised the Board that it had a proven 
operational track record and a history of community service as it already operated a beer and 
wine store within the Town. RWJ stated it would forfeit its beer and wine license if it were 
granted the All-Alcohol Beverages License and would not sell nips and single serving containers. 
Two members of a local food pantry spoke in favor of RWJ. The Board unanimously voted to 
continue the public hearing until November 5.
The Board duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on November 5 at 7:00 P.M. The 
notice included, among other topics, the continuation of a public hearing for the one All-Alcohol 
Beverages “Package Store” License for which the Board was considering two applicants - 
Highland Commons and RWJ.
The November 5 meeting was held as planned. The Board approved an all-alcohol 
restaurant license for Hilton Homewood Suites and two common victualler’s licenses, approved 
several sets of meeting minutes, and appointed election workers. The Board then continued the 
public hearing relative to the one All-Alcohol Beverages License sought by Highland Commons 
and RWJ. The Board first heard from an attorney and the Chief Operating Officer for RWJ, as 
well as a member of the Board of Health who spoke in favor of the applicant. The Board then 
heard from an attorney for Highland Commons who stated that the company would not sell nips 
and stressed its good relations with the Town. The Board then closed the public hearing.
Without any further discussion, Board Member Lisa Wysocki moved to issue the All-Alcohol 
Beverages License to Highland Commons. The Board unanimously approved the issuance of the 
license to Highland Commons. The Board then unanimously denied an All-Alcohol Beverages 
License to RWJ.
On November 7, RWJ appealed the Board’s denial of an All-Alcohol Beverages License. 
Thereafter, Administrative Secretary Arata drafted a letter explaining the Board’s decision to 
grant the license to Highland Commons. She sent the draft letter to all three Board members on 
or about November 15.
2

===PAGE 3===
During a November 26 meeting, the Board approved the “letter to RWJ/The Wine Cellar 
regarding the decisions behind the Board’s November 5th vote to grant available package store 
liquor license to Highland Commons LQR.” The letter, which was sent on or about November 
26 to RWJ and signed by all three Board members, stated the reasons the Board approved the 
issuance of the All-Alcohol Beverage License to Highland Commons, including that Highland 
Commons will be located in a standalone storefront in a high visibility location, the storefront 
will be seven times larger than RWJ’s store and thus have the ability to stock a wider variety of 
beverages, and Highland Commons will broaden the local workforce and increase the tax 
revenue to the Town.
During a February 7, 2019, hearing before the Alcoholic Beverages Control Commission, 
Chair Keefe and Board Member Wysocki testified that they did not speak with any other Board 
member about either RWJ’s or Highland Commons’ applications for the All-Alcohol Beverages 
License prior to the October 29 or November 5 meetings, nor did they discuss with any Board 
member the decision drafted by Ms. Arata prior to the November 26 meeting. Chair Keefe 
further testified that she did not speak with any Board member regarding her October 3 meeting 
with Benderson Corporation.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.” Id For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is 
a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id.
The complaint alleges that, during its November 5 meeting, the Board failed to deliberate 
on the All-Alcohol Beverages License before it voted to grant the liquor license to Highland 
Commons. Here, the Board held two public hearings, on October 29 and November 5, where it 
heard from each applicant as well as members of the community. During the November 5 
meeting, the Board unanimously voted to grant the one available liquor license to Highland 
Commons. The Board admits that it did not have any substantive discussions about the 
applications during the October 29 meeting or during the November 5 meeting prior to Ms. 
Wysocki’s motion to grant the All-Alcohol Beverages License to Highland Commons.
However, the Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to discuss any topic. See OML 
2014-98; OML 2013-64; OML 2012-23.2 Where the law does not require a public body to 
deliberate on a matter prior to voting on the matter and the Board denies that it deliberated on the 
liquor license outside of a noticed meeting, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
/
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Alexander Furey, Esq.
Berlin Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
