===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
June 10, 2019
OML 2019 - 67
Kevin P. O’Connor, Jr.
Executive Secretary 
Boston Zoning Board of Appeal 
Inspectional Services Department 
1010 Massachusetts Avenue, 4th Floor 
Boston, MA 02118
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Mr. O’Connor:
This office received a complaint from Rubia Reyes on January 15, 2019 alleging that the 
Boston Zoning Board of Appeals (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 15; and you responded, 
on behalf of the Board, by letter dated December 6. The complaint alleges that i) the Board 
discussed a matter during its October 16 meeting that was not listed on the notice; ii) the Board 
restricted an individual’s right to record the October 16 meeting; and iii) the October 16 meeting 
was not accessible.
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
restricting an individual’s right to record the October 16 meeting. We find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged, however. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notice and 
open session minutes of the Board’s October 16 meeting, as well as a video recording of that 
meeting.2
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. On October 11 at 1:15 P.M., the Board posted notice for a 
meeting to be held on Tuesday, October 16 at 9:30 A.M. The notice listed approval of minutes
1 Unless otherwise noted, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 The video recording is available at https://www.citvofboston.gov/cable/video librarv.asp?id=26908.

===PAGE 2===
and numerous hearings. One hearing listed on the notice pertained to 141-145 Norfolk Street 
and included a description of the project and the zoning violations to be discussed. Specifically, 
the description was listed as follows: “Raze 141 Norfolk St single story 960 sq st and combine 4- 
6 Woodrow ave and 193-145 Norfolk street. Erect 2 stores on first floor and 4 units on 2nd floor 
and 4 units on the 3rd floor. 145 Norfolk street is a restaurant with 36a take out. Curb cut on 
Woodrow ave and Norfolk street to accommodate 7-10 parking spaces.” The notice also 
indicated the various zoning codes that the project was not in compliance with, including floor 
area, open space, and front, rear and side yards, but did not reference parking.
The October 16 meeting was held as planned. At the beginning of the meeting, the room 
was crowded with considerable background noise. Several times throughout the first hour of the 
meeting, Acting Chair Mark Erlich asked participants to speak up and that a rear door remain 
closed.
Around 12:30 P.M., the Board discussed the Norfolk Street project. By this time, the 
meeting room was less crowded and there was minimal background noise. Attorney John Lyons 
spoke for the owner of the property and explained that four lots would be consolidated for the 
construction of eight apartments with off street, underground parking. Acting Chair Erlich 
interrupted Attorney Lyons noting that an individual was recording the meeting. Ele told the 
individual that the meeting was being livestreamed and that recording was “not authorized in this 
room.” Attorney Lyons then explained the shape of the lot and discussed why certain variances 
were necessary.
The Board took public comment with respect to this project. Five individuals spoke in 
support of the project and three individuals, including the complainant, spoke in opposition to the 
project. The Board unanimously voted to approve the project but required that the Boston 
Planning and Development Agency continue to review the designs and that the applicant 
continue to cooperate with the neighborhood.
DISCUSSION
I. The Board Provided Sufficient Detail in its October 16 Meeting Notice.
The complaint alleges that the Board discussed a topic during its October 16 meeting that 
was not listed on the notice. The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Public bodies must post notice of each meeting “at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and every notice 
must include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The list of topics 
shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to include sufficient 
specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the
2

===PAGE 3===
anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35; OML 2012-71; OML 
2011-44.3
The notice for the Board’s October 16 meeting included a public hearing for a project at 
141-145 Norfolk Street. The notice described the project as razing a single-story house to erect a 
three-story building with restaurants and eight apartment units. The notice referenced the 
various zoning codes that the project was not in compliance with and thus would require a 
variance. The complaint specifically alleges that the notice did not include reference to a parking 
variance. Although the notice stated that the project required a “curb cut” to accommodate 7-10 
parking spaces, it did not further reference the requirement for a parking variance. However, the 
Board need not list each and every detail about a topic in order to comply with the law’s 
requirements. See OML 2014-122. We conclude that the October 16 notice contained sufficient 
detail because it notified the public that the Board was conducting a public hearing with respect 
to a specifically identified property on Norfolk Street, and then generally described the project, 
including a reference to parking.
The complaint also alleges that the Board failed to provide notice to her as an abutter.
The Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to provide additional notice of meetings 
to specific individuals or groups of individuals for topics discussed during a meeting.4 See OML 
2013-41; OML 2011-41.
II. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Restricting an Individual’s Right
to Record the Meeting.
The complainant next alleges that the Board restricted an individual’s right to record the 
October 16 meeting. The Open Meeting Law states that “[ajfter notifying the chair of the public 
body, any person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a 
public body, or may transmit the meeting through any medium, subject to reasonable 
requirements of the chair as to the number, placement and operation of equipment used so as not 
to interfere with the conduct of the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f).
During discussion of the Norfolk Street project, Acting Chair Erlich noticed an individual 
recording the meeting. The Board contends that the individual failed to notify the chair that he 
would record the meeting and the chair found this to be disruptive. After reviewing the video 
recording of the meeting, however, we find that Acting Chair Erlich actually told the individual 
that recording was “not authorized in this room.” The Open Meeting Law allows the chair to 
impose reasonable restrictions on the “number, placement, and operation of equipment used so 
as not to interfere with the conduct of the meeting.” See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). Moreover, no 
person shall disrupt the proceedings of a meeting, and if a person continues to disrupt the
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
4 The Division of Open Government is charged specifically with reviewing complaints to determine compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, thus we decline to review, and offer no opinion on, whether any 
actions taken by the Committee could be a violation of any other law or regulation pertaining to public hearings.
See OML 2014-31; OML Decimation 6-25-18 (Rowley Planning Commission).
3

===PAGE 4===
proceedings, after a clear warning from the chair, the person may be removed from the meeting. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g). We conclude that the acting chair’s directive that the individual stop 
recording the meeting altogether merely because the meeting was already being live-streamed 
did not constitute a reasonable restriction on the individual’s right to record the meeting. See 
OML 2018-57; OML 2015-199. As such, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by directing that the individual stop recording.
III. The October 16 Meeting was Accessible.
Finally, the complaint alleges that the October 16 meeting was inaccessible because the 
public was unable to hear “portions of the 141-145 Norfolk St agenda item, including much of 
the comments from the attorney for the proponent.” The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to 
eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding deliberations and decisions on which public policy is 
based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70. 72 (1978). The law 
requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, 
unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Access to a meeting 
must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and hear what is being 
discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2017-135; OML 2015-38; OML 2014- 
3; OML 2013-189. At the beginning of the October 16 meeting, the room was crowded and 
there was considerable background noise. However, Acting Chair Erlich asked several times 
that individuals raise their voices so that everyone could hear and that a rear door remain closed. 
By the time the Norfolk Street project was discussed over an hour later, the meeting room was 
less crowded and much quieter. We find that the presentation by Attorney Lyons to the Board 
and the Board’s discussions regarding this project were audible and therefore we find that the 
Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged.
CONCLUSION
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by restricting an individual’s 
right to record the meeting. With respect to the remaining allegations, we find that the Board did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with 
the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
4

===PAGE 5===
cc: Rubia  Reyes
Boston Zoning Board of Appeals
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
5
