===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
A1TORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
September 24, 2012 
OML 2012 — 98 
Edward Roderick 
Executive Director 
Yarmouth Housing Authority 
Long Pond Plaza 
534 Winslow Gray Road 
South Yarmouth, MA 02664 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Roderick: 
This office received a complaint from Elvio Rodrigues dated March 28, 2012, 
alleging that the Yarmouth Housing Authority (the "Authority") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Authority by Mr. Rodrigues, on behalf of the Yarmouth Preservation Committee, on or 
about February 22, 2012, and the Authority responded to the original complaint by letter 
dated March 14, 2012. In his complaint, Mr. Rodrigues alleges that during meetings held 
on January 10 and February 14, 2012 (the "meetings"), the Authority convened in 
executive session for an improper purpose and thus the Authority should release the 
executive session minutes to the public and nullify any action taken during the executive 
sessions. Mr. Rodrigues further alleges that the Authority was not forthcoming when 
probed during the January 10, 2012 meeting about the executive session's purpose. 
We reviewed the February 22, 2012 complaint; your March 14, 2012 response on 
behalf of the Authority; the complainant's March 28, 2012 letter to our office requesting 
further review; your April 10, 2012 letter to our office; and the complainant's June 12, 
2012 letter to our office, which included a May 28, 2012 letter from the complainant to Mr. 
Erik Trolley, Chairman of the Yarmouth Board of Selectmen. In addition, we reviewed the 
meeting notices and the open and executive session minutes1  from the January 10 and 
I  We note that these minutes were not sufficiently detailed. Meeting minutes must contain "a summary of the 
discussions on each subject." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). While a transcript of the discussion is not required, 
minutes that reflect only that "a discussion was held" regarding a particular topic are not sufficiently detailed 
to allow a person who was not in attendance to determine the essence of the discussion that occurred. OML 
2012- 34. 
0 
===PAGE 2===
February 14, 2012 meetings, as well as the meeting notice for the March 13, 2012 meeting. 
We also spoke with you2  by telephone on August 6 and September 14, 2012. 
Following our review, we find that the Authority violated the Open Meeting Law 
by convening in executive session for an improper purpose. 
FACTS  
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. 
Because the Authority has not yet released the executive session minutes, we do not 
recount their content in full. However, we offer a general summary of the discussions 
below. 
The Authority posts its meeting notices at the Yarmouth Town Hall and the 
Yarmouth Housing Authority Community Room at least four days prior to each meeting. 
The meeting notice for the January 10, 2012 meeting itemized specific discussion topics 
under headings such as "Correspondence," which included the sub-topics "Letter from Mr. 
Elvio Rodrigues Re: Forest Road, Reminder Mid-Winter NAHRO Conference, HAC Beat, 
NLHA Bulletin." Under the heading, "Executive Session," the Authority listed "Forest 
Road" as the topic for discussion. 
On January 10, 2012, the Authority convened a meeting in open session. 
According to the open session meeting minutes, Assistant Treasurer Mary Ann Walsh 
made a motion to enter into executive session "to discuss legal issues regarding Forest 
Road," which was unanimously approved. The Authority did not state that holding this 
discussion in open session would have a detrimental effect on the Authority's litigating 
position, nor did it state whether it would reconvene in open session following the 
executive session. The Authority then approved the motion by roll call vote. During the 
executive session, the Authority discussed the development of a piece of property located 
on Forest Road owned by the Town of Yarmouth including, among other things, a Town 
Meeting Warrant Article request and an upcoming Request for Proposal (RFP). At no 
point during the discussion did the Authority discuss any pending or threatened litigation. 
No action was taken. The Authority then approved by roll call vote a motion to reconvene 
in open session to adjourn the meeting. 
The meeting notice for the February 14, 2012 meeting itemized topics under similar 
headings, such as "New Business," which included the sub-topics "2012-2012 YHA 
DHCD Budget- Tom Joy, Fee Accountant, NAHRO Conference- Washington DC March 
23-27." Under the heading, "Executive Session," the Authority listed "Legal Issues- 
Forest Road" and "RFP" as the topics for discussion in executive session. On February 14, 
2012, the Authority convened a meeting in open session. According to the meeting 
minutes, Vice-Chair Bambi Rosario made a motion to enter into executive session "to 
2  For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
discuss legal issues regarding Forest Road," which was unanimously approved. The 
Authority did not state that holding this discussion in open session would have a 
detrimental effect on the Authority's litigating position, nor did it state whether it would 
reconvene in open session following the executive session. The Authority then approved 
the motion by roll call vote. During the executive session, the Authority discussed the 
development of the Forest Road property. While the Authority discussed the potential 
legal implications of developing the Forest Road property, it again did not discuss any 
pending or threatened litigation. No action was taken. The Authority then approved by 
roll call vote a motion to reconvene in open session to adjourn the meeting. 
During the Authority's next meeting, on March 13, 2012, the Authority approved 
the executive session minutes for the January 10 and February 14, 2012 meetings. In the 
March 14, 2012 response to our office, Executive Director Edward Roderick stated, "[t]he 
Yarmouth Housing Authority acknowledges its error in going into Executive Session on 
January 10, 2012 and February 14, 2012 regarding Forest Road. It was a misunderstanding 
regarding what litigation was and could be." As of September 14, 2012, the executive 
session minutes from both meetings were still being withheld from disclosure, and the 
Authority had not conducted a review of those minutes to determine whether continued 
nondisclosure was warranted. However, the Authority shared the executive session 
minutes with the complainant upon the filing of this complaint. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in 
an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may 
enter a closed, executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting 
Law, provided that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose 
for the executive session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising 
the purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3). 
One permissible reason for executive session is Purpose 3, "[t]o discuss strategy 
with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair 
so declares." Id. at § 21(a)(3). The mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke 
executive session Purpose 3. Litigation must be pending or clearly and imminently 
threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. OML 2012-43; OML 2012-5. 3  While the 
Authority did not explicitly cite to Purpose 3, the agenda and the minutes stated that the 
Authority convened in executive session "to discuss legal issues regarding Forest Road." 
We infer, therefore, that the Authority intended to convene under Purpose 3. However, its 
executive session discussions regarding the Forest Road property were not proper under 
Purpose 3 because the Authority did not discuss any litigation, pending or otherwise. 
3  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
3 
===PAGE 4===
Another permissible reason for holding an executive session is Purpose 6, "No 
consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an 
open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public 
body." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6). This purpose is appropriate when a public body 
determines that discussing a particular property in open session would affect its negotiating 
position in the purchase, sale, or lease of the property. OML 2012-52. Potential uses for 
land and whether or not to go ahead with a project are not proper discussions under 
Purpose 6. Id. Thus, the Authority's discussion of the development of the Forest Road 
property was not appropriate under Purpose 6 either. Accordingly, the Authority should 
not have held these discussions in executive session during its January 10 and February 14, 
2012 meetings.4  
The Authority acknowledged that its discussions were not appropriate for executive 
session in its March 14, 2012 response to this complaint. Nevertheless, although the 
Authority provided copies of the executive session minutes to the complainant in response 
to the complaint, it has not released the minutes of those sessions to the public at large. 
The minutes of any executive session, as well as the notes, documents, and exhibits used 
during the executive session may be withheld from disclosure to the public as long as 
"publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 22(f). Because we find, and the Authority admits, that there was no lawful 
purpose for the January 10 and February 14, 2012 executive sessions, we order the 
Authority to release the minutes from and any documents used during those meetings; 
however, the Authority may redact or withhold these minutes subject to the exemptions to 
the Public Records Law contained within clause twenty-sixth of G.L. c. 4, § 7, or where 
discussions may be protected by the attorney/client privilege. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Authority violated the Open Meeting 
Law by convening in executive session for an improper purpose. We order the Authority, 
within thirty (30) days of receiving this determination, to review the minutes from its 
January 10 and February 14, 2012 executive sessions, as well as any documents used 
therein, and release those minutes or documents unless the attorney-client privilege or an 
In addition to the fact that the discussions should not have occurred in executive session, we note several 
procedural deficiencies related to the executive sessions. The meeting notices contained certain headings that 
itemized topics for discussion. The headings, "Forest Road" and "Legal Issues- Forest Road," fell short of 
the requirement that the Authority state "all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose 
for which the executive session" will be called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); District Attorney for Northern 
Dist. v. School Committee of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (Mass. 2009). For the same reasons that the 
meeting notices were deficient, the verbal statement of the executive session purpose during the open 
sessions also did not meet the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. In addition, the Chair failed to make 
the statement required by both Purpose 3 and 6 that an open meeting would have a detrimental effect on the 
litigating or negotiating position of the public body. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(3), (6). Finally, the Chair 
failed to state whether the Authority would reconvene in open session following the executive session. Icl. at 
§ 21(b)(4). 
4 
===PAGE 5===
exemption to the Public Records Law applies. Additionally, we order immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that future similar violations 
may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Authority. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe 
any facts in this letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
I 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Elvio Rodrigues 
Yarmouth Housing Authority 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
5 