===PAGE 1===
TFLE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACIIUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
December 14, 2010 
OML 2010-5 
Patrick Griffin 
Chair 
Gardner Municipal Golf Course Golf Commission 
Room 210 
City Hall 
Gardner, MA 01440 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chairman Griffin, 
This office received a complaint from Brenda LeBlanc dated October 1, 2010 alleging that the 
Gardner Municipal Golf Course Golf Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by deliberating upon a topic which was not listed in the meeting notice for a July 
6, 2010 meeting. We have also ieceived your response to the complaint, dated October 12, 2010. We 
have determined that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law, but remind the Commission 
of its obligation to ensure that all topics the chair reasonably anticipates 48 hours before a meeting be 
listed in the meeting notice with sufficient specificity so that a member of the public will understand what 
the Commission intends to discuss. 
In reaching this decision, we reviewed the complaint, originally filed with the Commission on 
July 27, 2010. We also reviewed the Commission's October 12, 2010 response, and the minutes of the 
July 6, 2010 and September 7, 2010 meetings of the Commission. 
The facts alleged by the complainant are as follows: Ms. LeBlanc sent a letter to the Gardner Golf 
Commission on June 2, 2010 asking for clarification regarding Golf Course operations. Ms. LeBlanc 
then attended the July 6, 2010 meeting of the Gardner Golf Commission. At the meeting, during a section 
called "Commissioners' Report", Commissioner Raymond LaFontaine addressed Ms. LeBlanc and stated 
that he and the Chair of the Commission had intended to discuss the merits of the June 2, 2010 letter at 
their June 22, 2010 meeting, but Ms. LeBlanc was not in attendance. The complaint asserts that the topic 
was not on the meeting notice for either the June 22, 2010 or the July 6, 2010 meetings. During the July 
6, 2010 meeting, Commissioner LaFontaine addressed Ms. LeBlanc directly and publicly chastised her 
for the content of her letter. 
===PAGE 2===
In his October 12, 2010 letter, the Chair of the Commission responded to the complaint and stated 
that the cormnents made by Commissioner LaFontaine during the meeting were his own personal 
comments made during a session reserved for Commissioners' comments. The Chair states that no prior 
meetings or discussions occurred between a quorum of the Commission regarding that topic, and no vote 
or action was anticipated. 
The Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30, §§ 20(b) states in relevant part that, "[e]xcept in an 
emergency, in addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every 
meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays... 
Notice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time and 
place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting." Any topic discussed at a meeting, which is reasonably anticipated by the chair of the public 
body, must be listed in a meeting notice at least 48 hours in advance of the meeting. 
Here, there seems to be little disagreement over the facts, though the question remains whether 
the Chair anticipated that Commissioner LaFontaine would raise a topic for discussion involving Ms. 
LeBlanc. Patrick Griffm, the Chair of the Commission, states in his October 12, 2010 letter, that "the 
comments made by Mr. LaFontaine were his personal comments made during a portion of the meeting 
reserved for Commissioner Comments." The minutes of the July 6, 2010 meeting state in part that, 
"LaFontaine stated that he wanted to speak with Brenda at the last meeting and she wasn't there so he 
spoke with her at this meeting regarding rumors that were heard out of the Women's Association 
regarding a focus group... He stated that Brenda LeBlanc should give the Chairman an apology...Brenda 
stated that she had no intention on apologizing to the Chairman." 
It appears that at the July 6, 2010 meeting there was no discussion by the Commission of a topic 
related to Ms. LeBlanc's letter, but rather a comment was made during an open comment period by a 
single commissioner. The discussion appeared to be between Commissioner LaFontain and Ms. LeBlanc. 
Had there been further discussion among the Board, or any movement toward a vote or decision, it would 
have required inclusion in the meeting notice. 
Although we do not find a violation, we understand how the complainant could feel blindsided by 
attending a meeting where she was not aware that she would be the subject of a commissioner's comment, 
especially where it involves a public disagreement. We encourage the Commission members to notify the 
. Chair of the Commission in advance of a meeting of any topics they anticipate will be discussed so as to 
be included in the meeting notice and to ensure that the public is adequately informed. 
If you have ahy questions r:egarding this letter, please do not hesitate to contact me at the number 
below. 
Sincerely, 
onathan Sclarsic 
% /Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
617-963-2045 
cc: Brenda LeBlanc 
John Flick, Gardner Law Department 