===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY TEL: (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
March 12,2018 
OML 2018-31 
Jeremia A. Pollard, Esq. 
Hanon Lemer, P.C. 
184 Main Street 
Lee, MA 01238 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Pollard: 
This office received a complaint from Roberta Samacki, dated November 28, 2017, 
alleging that the Otis Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on October 5, 2017, and, after 
being contacted by our office, the Board responded by letter dated January 24, 2018.1 In her 
complaint, Ms. Samacki alleges that Board violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) 
misidentifying the purpose for an executive session; and (ii) discussing her in executive session 
without providing her with notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed, in camera, the minutes of an 
executive session meeting held by the Board on August 29, 2017. We reviewed the minutes of a 
Board meeting held in open session on September 12, 2017. Finally, we spoke to the Board's 
legal counsel by telephone on March 1, 2018.2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. Ms. Samacki is the police chief in the Town of Otis. Prior 
to the events at issue in this letter, the parents of two minors threatened lawsuits against Ms. 
Samacki and the town based on actions Ms. Samacki undertook in the course of her role as 
police chief. 
1 Within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, a public body must review the complaint's 
allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a 
description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). We take this opportunity to 
remind the Board of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
}• 
On August 23, 2017, the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on August 29, 2017. 
The notice of this meeting stated that the Board would meet in executive session "[f]or the 
purpose of discussing strategy with Town Counsel in a legal matter." No further information 
was given as to what the Board anticipated discussing in executive session, and Ms. Samacki 
was not provided individualized notice of it. 
The Board held the August 29, 2017 meeting as planned. The Board's legal counsel was 
originally expected to appear at this meeting, but, due to a miscommunication, he was not 
present. The Board entered executive session nonetheless. The executive session minutes have 
not yet been released, and we therefore do not recount their contents in detail. However, we 
generally note that the Board discussed the threatened lawsuits, and, in so doing, made reference 
to complaints concerning Ms. Samacki's conduct. 
Following the August 29, 2017 meeting, the Board scheduled a meeting to be held on 
September 12, 2017 during which it planned to discuss the complaints against Ms. Samacki. The 
notice for this meeting stated that it would take place in executive session and that the Board 
would discuss "a personnel matter." Having been notified in advance, Ms. Samacki was present 
and requested the discussion take place in open session. The Board then discussed the events 
that underlay both the complaints and the threatened lawsuits, but the Board took no action on 
the topic during this meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body may enter executive session for any of ten 
enumerated purposes, provided that it has first convened in an open session, that the chair states 
the purpose for the executive session and announces whether the open session will reconvene at 
the conclusion of the executive session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go 
into executive session, and that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into 
the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21 (a), (b). One executive session purpose allows a public body to 
"discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional 
competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or 
charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member of individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). When a public body convenes in executive session to discuss an 
individual pursuant to Purpose 1, the individual who is the subject of the discussion has certain 
procedural rights, including the right to be present during the executive session. See OML 2015-
198; OML 2011-39.3 Another executive session purpose allows a public body to enter executive 
session to "discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting 
may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the 
chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). 
The complaint challenges the propriety of the Board's August 29, 2017 executive session 
in two respects. First, it alleges that the Board improperly identified the discussion as one of "a 
legal matter," rather than complaints or charges against Ms. Samacki. Second, the complaint 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's office; 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
argues that, because the true purpose of the executive session was to discuss complaints against 
Ms. Samacki, the Board improperly denied her the right to be present for the discussion. After 
reviewing the executive session minutes, we disagree. Based on our review of the still-withheld 
executive session minutes, the Board did not substantively discuss Ms. Samacki, as she was not 
the intended focus of the August 29, 2017 executive session. Rather, the focus was on the 
threatened lawsuits. See OML 2014-90 (no violation where mention of complainant during 
executive session is secondary to primary discussion). This is bolstered by the fact that the 
Board scheduled a separate meeting to fully discuss the complaints against Ms. Samacki. While 
complaints against an individual—here, Ms. Samacki—formed the basis for the threatened legal 
action, we conclude that the Board properly identified the executive session as one relating to "a 
legal matter" and that the discussion was limited to legal strategy related to the lawsuits, thus the 
complainant was not entitled to the procedural rights afforded under Purpose 1.4 See OML 
2016-142. Accordingly, we find no violation with respect to the allegations. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Roberta Samacki 
Otis Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 While not raised in the complaint, we note that a body must generally identify the litigation matter to be discussed 
in an executive session convened pursuant to Purpose 3, unless the disclosure of such information would 
compromise the purpose for secrecy. See OML 2018-20. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attomey General 
Division of Open Govemment 
3 