===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 15,2015 
OML 2015-3 
Wyona Lynch-McWhite, Chair 
Harvard Parks & Recreation Commission 
13 Ayer Road 
Harvard, MA 01451 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair McWhite: 
This office received a complaint from Ms. Deborah Skauen-Hinchliffe dated November 
3, 2014, alleging that the Harvard Parks & Recreation Commission (the "Commission") violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint alleges that a quorum of 
Commission members communicated via email to decide who would become the next chair of 
the Commission. The complaint was filed with the Commission on October 15, 2014. The 
Commission responded by letter dated October 27, 2014.1 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a noticed meeting. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
complaint filed with the Commission, the Commission's response, and the complaint filed with 
our office. Additionally, we reviewed an email exchange between two Commission members, 
dated April 30, 2014, which was provided to our office by Ms. Skauen-Hinchliffe. 
FACTS 
The Commission is a five-member public body, thus three members constitute a quorum. 
On April 30, 2014, Commission member Steven Victorson emailed Commission member Wyona 
Lynch-Mc White2 to ask if she would be interested in being the next Commission chair. He 
wrote that, "I had originally discussed with [Commission member] Steve [Gordon] about him 
1 Ms. Skauen-Hinchliffe did not receive copies of the Commission's emails until October 8, 2014. Because the 
emails were not reasonably discoverable before that date, we find the complaint to be timely. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3). 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
Cs 
===PAGE 2===
being the next chairman. [Commission member] Joe [Schmidt] then mentioned that you would 
be a good choice. 
Ms. Lynch-Mc White replied to the email, writing that as a junior member of the 
commission, she "would not want to take on the Chairperson role - I'd like to make sure that 
Steve and [Commission member] Pat [Nelson] talk before we get into the elections thing." 
Later that same day, Ms. Lynch-Mc White sent Mr. Victorson another reply to his email, 
writing that, "I talked with Steve [Gordon] who also asked me this. You are all pretty pursuasive 
[sic]. I've thought about it all day - I'd be happy to do it for one year and [let's] see what 
happens next year." The Commission elected Ms. Lynch-Mc White as its chair during its May 5, 
2014 meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
A "deliberation" is, in relevant part, "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction." Id- A "meeting" is "a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "quorum" is "a 
simple majority of the members of the public body, unless otherwise provided in a general or 
special law, executive order or other authorizing provision." Id. A public body may not lawfully 
deliberate outside of a noticed meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
The leadership of the Commission is a matter of public business, and should have been 
discussed during an open meeting. See OML 2011-38.3 Through email and in-person 
conversations, all five members agreed to elect Ms. Lynch-Mc White as the new Commission 
chair. This type of serial deliberation outside of a noticed meeting is prohibited by the Open 
Meeting Law. A public body may not engage in a serial communication whereby a quorum 
communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting, on a particular subject 
matter within the public body's jurisdiction. See OML 2012-84; McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. 
App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that private serial communications violate the spirit of the Open 
Meeting Law and may not be used to circumvent the intent of the law). Because the five 
Commission members communicated with each other outside of a noticed meeting to agree on 
the leadership of the Commission, the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a 
noticed meeting. We order the Commission's immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, and caution that a future similar violation of the Open Meeting Law may be 
considered evidence of an intentional violation of the Law. Additionally, we order the 
Commission to publicly release the emails discussed above at its next meeting. 
3 Open Meeting Law determination may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www. mass, go v/ ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
We now consider this matter closed. Please contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions. 
Sincerely 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Deborah Skauen-Hinchliffe 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3 