===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
December 21, 2011 
OML 2011 - 52 
Scott Jordan 
Board of Trustees 
River Valley Charter School 
2 Perry Way 
Newburyport, MA 01950 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Jordan: 
Our office received a complaint from Christine Miller, dated June 6, 2011, alleging 
violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by the Board of Trustees of the 
River Valley Charter School (the "Board"). Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board 
considered a complaint regarding the school's enrollment policies, but "the issue was never 
debated or discussed at an open meeting of the Board or sub-committee, in violation of both the 
[the Board]'s own grievance policy and state law." Additionally, the complaint alleges that the 
door to the meeting location for the Board's March 8, 2011 meeting was locked, preventing 
public access. The complaint was first filed with the Board on March 30, 2011. The Board 
responded to the complaint on April 6, 2011. 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the March 30, 2011 complaint, the Board's April 6, 2011 response to 
that complaint, and the June 6, 2011 complaint filed with our office. We reviewed emails sent 
between the complainant and the school, and spoke with the complainant and with you in your' 
role as Chairman of the Board. 
FACTS 
The River Valley Charter School holds an annual lottery for student enrollment. This is 
done because there are more students seeking to enroll in the school than available spots. 
For purpose of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person for the remainder of the letter. 
1 
===PAGE 2===
Christine Miller participated in the lottery, seeking to enroll her child at the school for the 2011- 
2012 academic year. Following the results of the lottery, Ms. Miller and her husband filed a 
complaint with the school on February 18, 2011 regarding its enrollment practices. Ms. Miller 
then met with school officials on March 7, 2011 to discuss her complaint. 
On March 8, 2011, Ms Miller attended an open meeting of the school's Board of 
Trustees. The Board is the school's governing body and consists of 11 members. Ms. Miller 
alleges that when she arrived to attend the meeting, the door to the school building where the 
meeting was being held was locked. She knocked on a window and was let in. She addressed 
the Board during the public comment portion of the meeting, but the Board declined to address 
her complaint. Scott Jordan, the chair of the school's Board of Trustees, explained that he 
preferred to follow the grievance process before the Board considered the complaint. 
On March 21, 2011, Ms. Miller received an email from the School's director with an 
attached letter responding to her complaint. The letter was signed by Mr. Jordan. According to 
Mr. Jordan, before sending that letter, he reviewed Ms. Miller's complaint and consulted with 
outside counsel, the School director, and the Board's officers, which include the Vice-Chair, the 
Secretary, and the Treasurer. They decided to respond to the complaint and directed outside 
counsel to draft the letter. 
Ms. Miller then filed her Open Meeting Law complaint on March 30, 2011. Mr. Jordan, 
believing that Ms. Miller was not satisfied with the Board's March 21st response to her 
complaint, then formally referred the matter to the Board's Grievance Committee. The 
Grievance Committee is a standing committee and its members were appointed prior to Ms. 
Miller's February 18, 2011 complaint. The chair of the Grievance Committee distributed the 
complaint to the individual members prior to meeting. The Grievance Committee met on April 
5, 2011 to consider the complaint, and at a subsequent meeting on April 12, 2011, decided the 
grievance in Ms. Miller's favor. The Grievance Committee directed the Board to change the 
school's enrollment policies. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)—(b), 21. The Open Meeting Law defines a "meeting" as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction." Id. A "quorum" is defined as "a simple majority of the 
members of the public body, unless otherwise provided in a general or special law, executive 
order or other authorizing provision." Id. 
Ms. Miller's Open Meeting Law complaint essentially alleges that the Board deliberated 
outside of a posted meeting when considering her enrollment complaint. She infers that the 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Board must have met outside of a publicly posted meeting because the full Board never publicly 
discussed the March 21, 2011 letter she received from Board Chair Scott Jordan, and the Board 
never publicly voted to formally refer her complaint to the Grievance Committee, or even 
establish the Grievance Committee. 
According to Mr. Jordan, he met with three other Board members, outside counsel, and 
the school director to discuss Ms. Miller's enrollment complaint. This did not constitute a 
deliberation because the meeting was between only four Board members, and a quorum of the 
eleven-member Board is six. Whether or not the Chair was authorized to respond to the 
enrollment complaint on behalf of the Board is not a matter we address here. We find no 
evidence that a deliberation occurred between and among a quorum of the Board outside of a 
posted meeting. 
Ms. Miller also infers that the Board must have discussed her complaint because it was 
formally referred to the Grievance Committee without pubic action. Ms. Miller claims that the 
"grievance committee was not selected at an open meeting, and there was no meeting of the 
grievance subcommittee, prior to my complaint, to discuss the issue at hand." According to Mr. 
Jordan, the Grievance Committee is a standing committee of the Board and its members were 
appointed prior to Ms. Miller's complaint. Mr. Jordan made the decision as chair to refer the 
enrollment complaint to the Grievance Committee. The chair of the Grievance Committee then 
distributed the complaint to the individual members and assigned each research prior to the 
meeting. They did not meet or communicate as a quorum prior to the April 5, 2011 open 
meeting, at which they considered the complaint. We find no evidence that the Board or 
Grievance Committee deliberated outside of a posted meeting. 
Ms. Miller also alleges that the outside door to the Board's meeting location for its March 
8, 2011 meeting was locked. Ms. Miller was able to access the meeting after she knocked at the 
window and someone let her in. Mr. Jordan stated to our office that he was unable to verify if 
the door was locked during the Board's March 8, 2011 meeting. However, in response to the 
Open Meeting Law complaint, he has taken measures to ensure that the doors will remain open 
and accessible for future meetings. We are satisfied that the Board will ensure that future 
meetings are fully accessible to the public. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in considering and 
responding to Ms. Miller's enrollment complaint. The Board's chair sent the March 21, 2011 
letter to Ms. Miller without prior deliberation by the Board. The referral to the Grievance 
Committee was also a unilateral decision by the Chair, and we find no evidence that Board 
deliberation occurred outside of the Grievance Committee's public meeting. We offer no 
opinion as to the school's enrollment policies or whether the Board properly followed its own 
grievance policy. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Sincere 
athan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
We appreciate the cooperation of the parties during this investigation, and now consider 
this matter to be resolved. Please contact me if you have any questions. 
cc: Christine Miller 
4 