===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 21, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 197 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Robert Arcangeli 
Assistant Corporation Counsel 
City of Boston Law Department 
City Hall, Room 615 
Boston, MA 02201 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Arcangeli: 
This office received a complaint from Robin Reed on September 20, 2021, alleging that 
the Boston Cannabis Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 14, and you responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated September 15.1 In her complaint, Ms. Reed alleges that the 
Board deliberated outside of a posted meeting.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed numerous emails 
which Ms. Reed received in response to public records requests. We communicated by email 
with Ms. Reed and Attorney Arcangeli on several occasions in November of 2021. Finally, we 
reviewed a video recording of the Board’s June 16 meeting.3 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 The complaint also alleges that the Board did not allow the public to provide input on the results of a traffic study. 
We note that, even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Open 
Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow public participation during its meetings. See G.L. c. 30A § 
20(f). Accordingly, we decline to review this allegation. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority 
Board of Commissioners). We note that the specific procedures for notice and conduct of public hearing are 
governed by the law requiring the hearing and such law may impose additional requirements beyond those of the 
Open Meeting Law. Because the Division of Open Government’s review only concerns compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, we do not review whether the Board complied with the requirements of any 
separate law governing public hearings. See OML 2021-15. 
3 A recording of the meeting can be found at: https://www.boston.gov/boston-cannabis-board#hearings 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.” Id. However, there is a narrow exception to the definition of 
“deliberation” for “the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution 
of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be 
discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18, 
see also OML 2017-17; OML 2016-172.4 
 For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the 
members of a public body. Id. The Board is a five-member public body, thus three members 
constitute a quorum. A one-way communication from one public body member to a quorum on 
matters within the body’s jurisdiction constitutes deliberation for purposes of the Open Meeting 
Law, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 2016-104; OML 2015-33; OML 
2012-73. A public body may not engage in serial communication whereby a quorum 
communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a subject within the 
public body’s jurisdiction. See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008). 
 Here, Ms. Reed alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a posted meeting regarding a 
traffic study which an applicant business, Resilient Remedies, submitted to the Board. Ms. Reed 
believes that such discussions took place outside of a posted meeting, because the Board voted to 
approve Resilient Remedies’ application with only minimal discussion of the results of the traffic 
study during the June 16 meeting. During the meeting, the Board acknowledged receipt of the 
traffic study, Board members stated that they found the traffic study satisfactory, and the Board 
then voted to approve the application.  
 We reviewed all of the emails which Ms. Reed received in response to a public records 
request. All of the emails were sent by either Board employees or the consultants who prepared 
the traffic study. Board employees forwarded the traffic study documents to the full Board. The 
Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and individuals acting as public body 
members. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Law defines “public body” as “a multiple-member board, 
commission, committee or subcommittee ... however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Board’s staff 
members are not subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML Declination 12-18-15 (Lawrence 
City Clerk); OML Declination 5-16-19 (Bourne Town Clerk). As all the emails we reviewed 
were sent by non-Board members to the Board, and the attached documents did not contain the 
opinions of any Board member, we find that these emails did not constitute deliberation in 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 The only reference in the emails we reviewed to discussion outside of a posted meeting 
about the traffic study related to phone conversations between a Board employee and individual 
Board members. In a May 19 email, at 1:55 P.M., the Board’s Executive Secretary forwarded 
 
4 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Resilient Remedy’s supplemental response to all members of the Board. In this email, the 
Executive Secretary stated that she planned to call the Board members “separately” to discuss the 
supplemental information. Deliberation requires that a communication be “between or among a 
quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
Where a communication is not “between or among” a quorum of public body members, a 
discussion of public body business does not constitute deliberation. See OML 2021-176. 
Therefore, the separate conversations between the Executive Secretary and individual Board 
members do not constitute deliberation. We also find no evidence of serial communication 
during the separate conversations, such as through the Executive Secretary relaying comments or 
feedback from Board members to other Board members. Because a quorum of the Board did not 
communicate on a matter within the Board’s jurisdiction outside of a posted meeting, either 
contemporaneously or serially, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Robin Reed (via e-mail: ) 
 Boston Cannabis Board (via e-mail:  
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
