===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
February 28, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 33 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Kathleen Connolly, Esq.  
Assistant Town Attorney 
Town of Barnstable  
367 Main Street 
Hyannis, MA 02601 
  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Connolly: 
This office received a complaint from Anthony Densieski on November 1, 2021, alleging 
that the Barnstable Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on 
September 14, and you responded on behalf of the Commission by letter dated October 18.1, 2 In 
his complaint, Mr. Densieski alleges that the Commission impermissible deliberated outside of a 
posted meeting.3 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Commission’s 
response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed 
the minutes and a video recording of the Commission’s August 31 meeting. Finally, we 
communicated by email with Mr. Densieski on several occasions in January and February 2022.  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 The Commission requested, and was granted, an extension of time from our office to respond to the complaint.  
3 The complaint also alleges that Mr. Densieski’s written public comments were not discussed during an August 31 
meeting. We note that the Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow public participation during 
its meetings. G.L. c. 30A § 20(f). The Open Meeting Law permits the chair of a public body to decide whether to  
allow for public participation, and if so, to set limitations on participation. See OML 2017-189; OML 2014-23; 
OML 2012-23. We do, however, encourage public bodies to allow for as much public participation as time and 
circumstances permit. See OML 2015-12; OML 2014-129. As public participation is discretionary, this allegation 
would not constitute a violation of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Accordingly, we decline to review it. See OML 
Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 We find the facts as follows. During an August 31 meeting, the Commission held a 
public hearing regarding an application to raze an existing building and construct a new building 
at 95 Sunset Lane in Barnstable. At the beginning of the hearing, the applicant’s representative 
gave a presentation to the Commission on the scope of the project, including plans for the 
proposed new construction. After the presentation, the Conservation Agent and two members of 
the Commission asked questions of the applicant’s representative. Finally, a member of the 
public also asked a question about the project. The chair stated that he had received no further 
public comment. The Commission then voted unanimously to approve the project subject to 
receipt of a revised plan. At that point, the Commission’s Chair closed the public hearing.  
DISCUSSION 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.” Id. However, there is a narrow exception to the definition of 
“deliberation” for “the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution 
of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be 
discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
 For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the 
members of a public body. Id. A one-way communication from one public body member to a 
quorum on matters within the body’s jurisdiction constitutes deliberation for purposes of the 
Open Meeting Law, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 2016-104; OML 
2015-33; OML 2012-73.4 A public body may not engage in serial communication whereby a 
quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a subject 
within the public body’s jurisdiction. See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008). 
 Here, Mr. Densieski alleges that the Commission deliberated outside of a posted meeting 
regarding an application to raze an existing building and construct a new building at 95 Sunset 
Lane in Barnstable. Mr. Densieski asserts that the Commission insufficiently discussed the 
application during the public hearing which took place during the August 31 meeting, and 
therefore infers that the Commission deliberated at some point prior to the Commission’s 
August 31 meeting regarding the application. Specifically, Mr. Densieski asserts that the 
Commission deliberated outside of a posted meeting because his written public comment was not 
discussed during the public hearing.  
 In reviewing the video recording of the Commission’s August 31 meeting, it is clear that 
two Commission members asked questions of the applicant’s representative after the 
Conservation Agent also questioned the applicant’s representative. There is no indication in the 
 
4 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
video recording or minutes of the August 31 meeting that Commission members had previously 
discussed the application for 95 Sunset Lane. The Commission asserts in its response that no 
Commission members deliberated outside of the August 31 meeting regarding the 95 Sunset 
Lane application. The Commission also explains that Mr. Densieski’s written comment was not 
discussed during the public hearing due to a staff oversight which resulted in the Chair not 
receiving Mr. Densieski submission. Absent evidence to the contrary, we credit the public body’s 
account of the facts. See OML 2020-172; OML 2019-73; OML 2017-93. Therefore, as we find 
no evidence to contradict the Commission’s assertion that no deliberation occurred outside of a 
posted meeting, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Anthony Densieski (via e-mail:  
 Barnstable Conservation Commission c/o Conservation Administrator Darcy Karle  
 (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
