===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 30, 2015 
OML 2015-178 
Wayne Oliveira, Chair 
Fairhaven Beautification Committee 
40 Center Street 
Fairhaven, MA 02719 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Dear Chair Oliveira: 
This office received a complaint from Karen Vilandry alleging that the Fairhaven 
Beautification Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on August 24, and, when the 
Committee did not respond, the complainant requested further review from our office on 
September 3. After being contacted by our office, the Committee responded to the complaint by 
e-mail on November 5. In her complaint, Ms. Vilandry alleges that the Committee held a 
meeting without providing an agenda of anticipated topics on the meeting notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged in the complaint. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the 
Committee's response; and the request for further review filed with our office. We also 
reviewed the notice for a Committee meeting held on August 12. Finally, we spoke with Town 
Clerk Eileen Lowney on November 6. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee scheduled a meeting for August 12, and 
posted notice for this meeting on August 5. The meeting notice stated the date and time of the 
meeting, but provided no list of anticipated discussion topics. Chair Oliveira anticipated 
discussing certain topics and provided agendas to the Board members.2 The Committee held the 
August 12 meeting as planned. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, "[ejxcept in an emergency, in addition to any 
notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays." G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). Furthermore, "[njotice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall 
contain the date, time, and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." Id. Any topic discussed at a meeting, which was 
reasonably anticipated by the chair of the public body more than 48 hours before the meeting, 
must be listed in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of 
the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
Here, the August 12 meeting notice did not include a listing of topics to be discussed at 
the meeting. Instead, it merely provided the date, time, and location of the meeting. Chair 
Oliveira, however, anticipated discussing certain topic during the meeting at issue, and even 
provided agendas to Board members in advance of the meeting. The failure to provide this 
information to the public violated the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Chair Oliveira 
stated to our office that he mistakenly believed the agenda had been provided to the Town Clerk. 
As such, it does not appear that this violation was intentional. 
As a final matter, although not raised in the complaint, we note that the Committee did 
not respond to this Open Meeting Law complaint within the time frame required by law. Unless 
an extension of time has been requested, a public body must, within 14 business days of receipt 
of an Open Meeting Law complaint, send a copy of the complaint to the Attorney General's 
Office and notify the Attorney General's Office of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. BOA, § 
23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5), (6). Here, the complaint was filed with the Committee on August 24, 
and the Committee did not respond until November 5, after being contacted by our office. This 
failure to respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within the time frame required by law also 
violated the Open Meeting Law.3 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that 
similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Additionally, 
we order the Committee to review the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Training Video 
#2: Meeting Notices and certify to our office within thirty (30) days of this letter, using the 
attached form, that it has done so.4 
3 We similarly reminded the Committee of its obligation to respond to Open Meeting Law complaints in 
determination letters dated September 17 and November 2. See OML 2015-163; OML 2015-133. Because the 
complaint at issue here was filed prior to the Committee's receipt of either determination, we do not find this 
violation to be intentional. We recognize that the Committee, a volunteer body, feels burdened by the obligation to 
respond to repeated Open Meeting Law complaints from the same individual. Nevertheless, the law requires that 
public bodies respond to all Open Meeting Law complaints. G.L, c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
4 The Attorney General's Open Meeting Law training videos may be found here: 
http://www.mass.gov/ago/govemment-resources/open-meeting-law/video-trainings/ 
2 
===PAGE 3===
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Karen Vilandry 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Certification of Compliance with Order 
I hereby certify that I have read the Attorney General's determination 
(print name) 
number OML 2015-178 and, pursuant to the order therein, reviewed the Attorney General's 
Open Meeting Law Training Video #2: Meeting Notices on . 
(date) 
Public Body Member Signature Date 
4 