===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
October 21, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 168 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
James Donnelly, Esq. 
Murphy Hesse Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
40 Salem Street Building 2 Suite 12 
Lynnfield, MA 01940 
 
jdonnelly@mhtl.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Donnelly: 
 
This office received a complaint from Ryan Rezendes on June 27, 2025, alleging that the 
Acushnet School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.   The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on May 29, and you responded 
on its behalf by correspondence dated June 17.
1  The complaint alleges that the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law when it deliberated outside a posted meeting. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
in the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint with 
attachments, the Committee’s response, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We 
also spoke with Committee chair Ronald Houde, and Committee members Melissa Cordeira, 
John Howcroft, and Sarah Gomes. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Committee is a five-member public body.  Therefore, 
three members constitute a quorum.  At all times relevant to the complaint, Chair Ronald Houde 
and Vice Chair Jennifer Downing constituted a negotiating subcommittee of the Committee 
tasked with negotiating a new contract with School Superintendent Paula Bailey.  On March 5, 
Chair Houde emailed Vice Chair Downing, attaching the latest draft of the contract with the 
Superintendent.
 2  By the time of the March 5 email, negotiations with Dr. Bailey had already 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2025. 
2 The complainant obtained the emails on May 28, in response to a public records request.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
been ongoing for months.  In his email, Chair Houde explained the latest revisions and told Vice 
Chair Downing “If you’re good with this then I will send it back to [Superintendent Bailey] and I 
think we’re basically done other than just cleaning up some of the formatting in the document.”  
He concluded the email with “Next Steps: I will connect with [member] Melissa [Cordeira] and 
[member] John [Howcroft] separately to avoid the need for additional meetings, I connected with 
[member] Sarah [Gomes] already and I think we will be good to hold another discussion in 
executive session at our upcoming meeting and potentially take a vote.”  Vice Chair Downing 
responded the next day: “Thanks, Ron.  All looks and sounds good.  Appreciate you getting this 
over the finish line!” 
 
In conformance with his email to Vice Chair Downing, Chair Houde telephoned the other 
members of the Committee to tell them that the contract would be discussed at the next meeting.  
He recalls telling Members Cordeira and Gomes that he would bring “comps” to the meeting, 
showing the salaries of other school superintendents.  Member Gomes does not recall that part of 
the phone call with the chair.  Chair Houde did not email the other members about the contract or 
about negotiations with Superintendent Bailey.  Chair Houde and Vice Chair Downing had 
discussed holding a special meeting on the subject of the contract but decided it was not 
necessary because the regular meeting was scheduled for the following week.
3     
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Committee did not deliberate outside a meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  To that end, the Law requires that meetings of a public 
body be noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is lawfully convened. G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  The Law defines “meeting,” in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a 
public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c 30A, § 18.  The 
Law defines “deliberation” broadly as “an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business 
within its jurisdiction.”  The Law includes several narrow exceptions to the definition of 
deliberation for “the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of 
other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed 
at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.   
 
For pur
poses of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is “a simple majority of the members 
of the public body.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  A one-way communication from one public body 
member to a quorum on business within a body’s jurisdiction is deliberation, even if no other 
member responds.  See OML 2025-106; OML 2023-139; OML 2020-136.
4  A public body may 
not engage in serial communication whereby a quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous 
 
3 Chair Houde explained to us that the meeting originally was scheduled for March 12 , a week after the March 5 
email but that the meeting was rescheduled to March 19 because one member could not make the March 12 meeting.  
We did not verify this chronology as notices of past meetings are not available on the town’s website. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
manner outside of a meeting on a particular subject matter within the public body’s jurisdiction.  
See 
OML 2024-157; OML 2015-3; OML 2011-27.   
 
The language of the March 5 email suggests that Chair Houde planned to discuss the 
sub
stance of the draft contract with other Committee members outside a meeting.  The 
Committee maintains that Chair Houde called Members Cordeira, Howcroft, and Gomes only to 
let them know that the contract with the Superintendent would be a topic of discussion at the 
next meeting.  Based upon our interviews of Chair Houde, and Members Cordeira, Howcroft, 
and Gomes, we are satisfied that Chair Houde did not discuss the substance of the contract or 
negotiations during his calls with the other members.  Chair Houde’s statement that he would 
bring comps to the meeting likely would not constitute deliberation, even if that statement 
reached a quorum of members, as it was akin to forwarding a document to be discussed at an 
upcoming meeting, which is permissible under the Open Meeting Law.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 18 
(excluding from the definition of “deliberation” the distribution of documents to be discussed at 
a meeting).  In any event, we need not decide whether the mention of comps constituted 
deliberation as it is unclear that it reached a quorum of the Committee.   
 
Alt
hough we find no violation by the Committee, we caution against the kind of 
telephone calls that are the subject of the instant complaint.  First, members always run the risk 
of accidentally engaging in deliberation during a phone call about the agenda of an upcoming 
meeting.  Second, even if not a violation, verbal communications referencing specific agenda 
items can give an appearance of impropriety, especially where members of the public have no 
ability to confirm the precise substance of the communication.   
 
II. Subcommittees are public bodies which must follow the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Although not an issue raised by the complainant, we note our concern about 
communication between members of the negotiation subcommittee.  Chair Ronald Houde and 
former Vice Chair Jennifer Downing comprised the two-member negotiation subcommittee.  As 
part of their duties on the negotiation subcommittee, Chair Houde and former Vice Chair 
Downing negotiated a new contract with Superintendent Paula Bailey.   
 
Although communications between Committee Chair Houde and Committee Vice Chair 
Downing about Superintendent Bailey’s contract did not reach a quorum of the Committee, those 
communications did reach a quorum of the negotiation subcommittee.  More precisely, the 
communication was from one member to another member of the two-member negotiation 
subcommittee.    
 
The Open Meeting Law applies to a public body, which is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
multiple
 member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or 
legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, 
appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18 
(emphasis added).  The Open Meeting Law definition of a subcommittee includes “any multiple-
member body created to advise or make recommendations to a public body.”  Id.  Where a public 
body creates a multiple-member body and charges it with advising the creating body on public 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
policy through collective action, that entity will likely be a public body subject to the Open 
Meetin
g Law.  See OML 2025-135; OML 2023-44; OML 2012-28.   
 
Based on the Committee’s representation, we assume, without finding, that the chair and 
vice chair of the Committee comprised a sub-committee for purposes of the Open Meeting Law.  
If so, the subcommittee must comply with the Law just as any other public body would.  
Communication between the members of a two-member subcommittee, on public business 
within that subcommittee’s jurisdiction (here, the Superintendent’s contract), constitutes 
deliberation.  As such, it must be confined to a meeting held in conformance with the Open 
Meeting Law.  Because no complaint has been filed with the negotiation subcommittee, we do 
not find it in violation of the Open Meeting Law.
5  However, we urge the negotiation 
subcommittee, to the extent that it still exists, to dedicate itself to strict compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged by the complaint. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to 
be resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
the Committee or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Ryan Rezendes (via email:   
 Pamela Labonte, Acushnet Town Clerk (PLabonte@acushnet.ma.us) 
 
  
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
5 See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b) (setting forth the procedure by which the attorney general may  review Open Meeting Law 
complaints filed with the public body); c. 30A, § 23(f) (“As an alternative to the procedure in subsection (b), the 
attorney general or 3 or more registered voters may initiate a civil action to enforce the open meeting law.”)  
