===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 28, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 237 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Janelle M. Austin, Esq. 
KP Law 
jaustin@k-plaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Austin: 
 
This office received a complaint from Judith Ahern on July 11, 2022,
1 alleging that the 
Wellfleet Selectboard (the “Board”)—and specifically Janet Reinhart,2 Michael DeVasto, and 
Rebekah Eldridge—violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on or about April 18, and you responded on behalf of the Board 
by letter dated May 9. The complaint alleges that 1) the Complainant was removed from and 
then unable to access the Board’s April 12 meeting via Zoom video conferencing; and 2) at times 
the Complainant was unable to speak during the meeting. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law where the 
Complainant was removed from the Zoom video conference of the Board’s April 12 meeting. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s 
response, the request for further review, additional documents provided to our office by the 
Complainant, and a video recording of the Board’s April 12 and May 6 meetings.
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 Janet Reinhart no longer serves on the Board. 
3 Video recordings of the Board’s meetings can be found at https://www.youtube.com/@WellfleetTownMedia.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
April 12 at 7:00 p.m. The notice stated that the meeting would be held via Zoom video 
conference and provided a link to access the meeting online as well as dial-in information to 
access the meeting via telephone. The Complainant originally joined the April 12 meeting via the 
video conference option. Behind the Complainant and visible in her video feed during the 
meeting was a sign that read “DETHRONE DEVASTO!,” referring to the Board’s Vice-Chair.  
 
At some point, former Board member Janet Reinhart requested that Executive Assistant 
Rebekah Eldridge remove the Complainant’s picture from the video conference. In response to 
this request, the Executive Assistant took some action that ultimately caused the Complainant to 
be removed from the video conference entirely. There is some dispute as to whether the 
Complainant was able to rejoin the video conference for a period of time after she was first 
removed.
4 Regardless, there is no dispute that the Complainant was ultimately unable to access 
the remainder of the meeting via video conference and instead eventually accessed the meeting 
via telephone.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement 
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except 
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”). 
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as 
to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2015-38; 
OML 2014-3; OML 2013-189; OML 2012-66.5 Temporary provisions have allowed public 
bodies to meet entirely remotely, so long as the public body provides adequate, alternative means 
of public access to its deliberations in real time as those deliberations are occurring. See Chapter 
107 of the Acts of 2022 (An Act Relative to Extending Certain State of Emergency 
Accommodations); St. 2021, c. 20, § 20 (Act Extending Certain COVID-19 Measures Adopted 
During the State of Emergency); Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open 
Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20 (Mar. 12, 2020). In order for a meeting to be truly open to the 
public the meeting venue, whether a physical location or a remote method of access, must be 
accessible to the public for the duration of the meeting. See OML 2021-63. 
 
The Board explains that it did not intend to remove the Complainant from the video 
conference altogether, but rather the Board intended only for the Executive Assistant to disable 
the Complainant’s video feed. Regardless, there is no dispute that as a result of the Board’s 
actions, the Complainant was removed from the meeting. We find that where the Complainant 
 
4 We note that default meeting settings in Zoom do not allow a meeting participant to rejoin the same meeting 
session if they have been removed. See https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/360021851371-Allowing-
participants-panelists-to-rejoin. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
was removed from the video conference and unable to access the meeting, even if only briefly, 
the April 12 meeting was not accessible to all members of the public for the duration of the 
meeting. Additionally, we do not find any indication that the Complainant disrupted the Board’s 
meeting in a way that justified her removal from the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g). 
Therefore, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. Finally, it is our understanding that there 
was no attempt to disable the video feed of any other members of the public. Although not a 
matter within the scope of the Open Meeting Law, we note our concern with the Board’s choice 
to disable one meeting attendee’s video feed while allowing the video feeds of all other attendees 
to remain live.  
 
Next, we must determine whether, as the Board contends, the Board cured the violation 
found here. We find that it did not. Violations of the Open Meeting Law may be cured by 
independent, deliberative action that is not merely a ceremonial acceptance and perfunctory 
ratification of action taken in violation of the Law. See Pearson v. Bd. of Selectmen of 
Longmeadow, 49 Mass. App. Ct. 119, 125 (2000); OML 2020-7; OML 2016-49. Generally, that 
means conducting deliberations anew at a subsequent meeting that is accessible to the public and 
for which proper notice is provided. 
 
The Board explains that during its May 6 meeting it “ratified all substantive discussions 
that Ms. Ahern may have missed during the April 12, 2022, meeting,” and asserts that this cured 
the violation. During the Board’s May 6 meeting, it discussed the instant complaint and its 
response thereto in detail. The Board then took a vote simply ratifying all substantive discussions 
held during the April 12 meeting that the Complainant may have missed during the time she was 
unable to access the meeting. These actions do not constitute independent, deliberative action, 
but rather perfunctory ratification of the discussions held and therefore cannot serve to cure the 
violation found here.  
 
Finally, we decline to review the allegation that the Complainant could not unmute 
herself and was unable to speak during the portion of the April 12 meeting that she was required 
to access via telephone instead of video conference. The Division of Open Government’s review 
concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Open Meeting 
Law does not require that a public body allow public participation, but rather gives the chair of 
the public body discretion to decide whether to permit public comment during a meeting. See 
G.L. c. 30A § 20(g); see also OML 2020-77; OML 2017-189. Therefore, even if true, an 
allegation that the Complainant was unable to actively participate in the April 12 meeting does 
not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law and we therefore decline to review it. 
Although the Open Meeting Law does not require public participation, we encourage public 
bodies to allow for as much public participation as time and circumstances permit. Additionally, 
to the extent the complaint alleges that the Complainant’s civil liberties were violated, we offer 
no opinion on whether any actions taken by the Board could be a violation of the Complainant’s 
civil rights, First Amendment rights, or some other law or regulation outside the scope of the 
Division’s review.  
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when its April 12 meeting was inaccessible to a member of the public for a period of time. We 
order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the 
Board that a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of an intentional 
violation of the law. Because the Board has posted online both the minutes and video recording 
of the April 12 meeting, we do not order additional remedial action.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,      
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Wellfleet Selectboard (via email: BOS@wellfleet-ma.gov) 
Judith Ahern (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
