===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATT RNEY GENERAL 
August 22, 2011 
OML 2011 - 35 
Peter J. McQuillan, Esq. 
City Solicitor 
41 Pleasant St. 
Methuen, MA 01844 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney McQuillan, 
This office received a complaint filed by Jack Burke, dated March 28, 2011, alleging that 
the Methuen City Council (the "Council") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18- 
25. The complaint alleges that Methuen City Council Chair John Cronin "sent around an e-mail 
to other city councilors asking them for their feedback" on whether they would support an item 
Councilor Cronin was considering adding to an upcoming Council meeting agenda. The 
complaint was first filed with the Council on January 18, 2011. We received the Council's 
response to the original complaint on or about January 31, 2011. 
We find that while the actions of Councilor Cronin violated the Open Meeting Law, the 
Council took appropriate measures to prevent a further violation and took remedial action to cure 
any effects of the violation. In reaching this determination we reviewed the January 18 and 
March 18, 2011 complaints; the Council's January 31, 2011 response to the complaint; and the 
notice and minutes of the Council's January 19, 2011 meeting. We also spoke with you by 
telephone on April 19, 2011. Finally, we reviewed a supplemental response from the Council, 
dated April 20, 2011. 
FACTS 
Over the past year, the City of Methuen has undertaken a charter review process through 
a Charter Commission. One member of the Charter Commission was Councilor Cronin One 
topic debated by the Charter Commission was whether the City Council should consider a ballot 
===PAGE 2===
question on abolishing term limits for municipal offices. The City Council would have to 
approve a ballot question before a municipal special election could be held. The Boston Globe 
reported on January 13, 2011, that Councilor Cronin would not bring the ballot question to the 
City Council for a vote "if he determine[d] he lack[ed] the council votes needed to schedule a 
special election." John Laidler, Four Names Emerging as Methuen Mayoral Candidates, 
BOSTON GLOBE, January 13, 2011. On January 14, 2011, Councilor Cronin sent an email to all 
of his fellow city councilors with the subject line "TR-11-1 Resolution for the Submission of 
Term Limit Questions on the Ballot of a Special Municipal Election (Re. of Clr. Cronin)." The 
text of the email was as follows: 
The above requires a vote of the City Council to go to the state with a Home Rule 
Petition to have a Special Election. Please advise whether or not you support this concept 
via a phone call [phone number redacted] or email. 
According to the Council's January 31, 2011 response to the complaint, none of the 
councilors responded to the request by email, though three city councilors responded to the email 
by telephoning Councilor Cronin. In a letter to this Office dated April 20, 2011, in response to a 
specific request from our office, the Council affirmed that "the content of those telephone 
conversations was general in nature and referenced simply the agenda for the forthcoming 
regularly scheduled City Council meeting. No dialogue specifically referenced the subject 
matter of the complaint." 
The Council convened an open meeting on January 19, 2011. The meeting notice 
included the topic "TR-11-6 Resolution for the Submission of Term Limit Questions on the 
ballot of a Special Municipal Election (Req of Chr Cronin)." The minutes of the meeting reflect 
that during the public participation portion of the meeting, the complainant, as well as another 
individual, addressed the Council regarding a possible Open Meeting Law violation by 
Councilor Cronin in soliciting Council members' opinions regarding the term limits topic. Both 
residents requested that the Council remove the topic from the meeting agenda. When the 
Council reached the New Business portion of the meeting and began consideration of the term . 
limits topic, Councilor Cronin stated that he thought it was only fair that the public understand 
the Open Meeting Law allegations raised earlier in the meeting. Councilor Cronin explained that 
the topic was added to the agenda a week before the meeting, but he acknowledged that "the 
email I sent out, although I did not realize it at the time, was not appropriate according to the 
open meeting law." Councilor Cronin went on to state for the record that, "[t]here was no 
intention of hiding anything on my part because I talked to reporters before it went on the agenda 
and I told them what my plan was so there was no intention to hide anything from the public." 
Councilor Cronin then explained his reasons for supporting the ballot question, but removed the 
agenda item from the Council's consideration "because of the confusion I caused." Council 
Cronin added that, "I want to make clear [that] there were no emails sent to me, I did not receive 
any emails, and I don't believe the Council office received any responses." 
2 
===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge,  376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A "deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Open 
Meeting Law defmes a "meeting" as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter 
within the body's jurisdiction." Id. The law requires that meetings of a public body be properly 
noticed and open to members of the public, imless an executive session is convened. See G.L. C. 
30A, §§ 20(a)—(b), 21. 
Councilor Cronin's January 14, 2011 email to a quorum of his fellow Council members, 
requesting that the members report whether or not they support a special election for a ballot 
question, was a deliberation in violation of the Open Meeting Law. The email was a "written 
communication" sent to a quorum of the Council on a matter of "public business within its 
jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Councilor Cronin's solicitation could have resulted in the 
Council making policy decisions outside of a public meeting had Council members replied. The 
councilors showed commendable restraint in declining to respond to Councilor Cronin's email.1  
The three councilors who spoke with Councilor Cronin over the telephone regarding the 
meeting agenda did not address the email's specific request, according to the Council's April 20, 
2011 letter. The Council affirmed that "the content of those telephone conversations was general 
in nature and referenced simply the agenda for the forthcoming regularly scheduled City Council 
meeting. No dialogue specifically referenced the subject matter of the complaint." More to the 
point, the phone conversations with Councilor Cronin did not involve a quorum of the Council. 
There are nine members of the Council, and five councilors constitute a quorum. As the phone 
conversations, even if serial in nature, were between or among at most four members of the 
Council—less than a quorum—there is no violation of the Open Meeting Law resulting from 
these phone calls. 
The Open Meeting Law complaint that followed this violation was filed with the Council 
on January 18, 2011. At the January 19, 2011 Council meeting, Councilor Cronin acknowledged 
his error and took responsibility for the violation. Councilor Cronin withdrew the teim limits 
topic from the meeting agenda as it had been tainted by the email deliberation, even though it 
had been added to the meeting notice more than 48 hours before the meeting, as required by the 
Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Additionally, you wrote a memo in your capacity 
as City Solicitor, dated January 24, 2011, to the members of the City Council describing the 
nature of the violation and requesting all members to review the Guide to the Open Meeting Law 
provided by the Solicitor's office. These steps, combined with the release of the email in 
question, were the proper remedial actions given the nature of the violation. 
We note that, despite the complainant's contention, we do not believe Councilor Cronin acted to intentionally 
violate the Open Meeting Law. Councilor Cronin even told a reporter that he was going to poll the members of the 
Council before adding the topic to the agenda. Once he was made aware of the violation, he acted appropriately to 
remedy the situation. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
or.'411111110P  
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
CONCLUSION 
Councilor Cronin's January 14, 2011 email was an inappropriate solicitation that resulted 
in deliberation by the Council in violation of the Open Meeting Law. However, we fmd that the 
Council's actions in response to the complaint filed on January 18, 2011 were appropriate. The 
Council 1) acknowledged the potential for a violation; 2) publicly released the email sent by 
Councilor Cronin; 3) removed the tainted topic from the agenda; and 4) requested that all 
Council members review the Open Meeting Law Guidebook. We have confidence that the 
Council will avoid such email communications in the future. 
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this 
determination, please do not hesitate to contact me at the number below. 
Sincerely, 
cc: Jack Burke 
4 