===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA II EALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
May 7, 2018 
OML 2018-62 
Katharine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
Lhis office received two complaints from Stephen Morgan, dated March 12, 2017 and 
October 6, 2017, alleging that the Ashland Strategic Planning Committee (the "Committee") 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Lhe complaints were originally filed 
with the Committee on January 31, 2017 and October 1, 2017, and you responded, on behalf of 
the Committee, by letters dated February 14, 2017 and October 5, 2017. Both complaints allege 
that the Committee failed to post notice of meetings and keep meeting minutes. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Committee is a public body of the Town Manager, and therefore not 
subject to the Open Meeting Law and did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to comply 
with the law's notice and minutes requirements. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaints, the Committee's responses to the complaints, and the complainant's 
requests for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the minutes of Ashland 
Board of Selectmen (the "Board") meetings held on April 6, 2016, May 18, 2016, July 6, 2016, 
and January 18, 2017; as well as a video recording of the April 6, 2016 Board meeting.1 Finally, 
we spoke with you by telephone on June 29, 2017, October 4, 2017, and April 6, 2018; and with 
Town Manager Michael Herbert by telephone on April 6, 2018.2 
We find the facts as follows. Michael Herbert was appointed Ashland Town Manager in 
January 2016. Pursuant to the Ashland Town Charter, the Town Manager is the administrative 
officer of the town and is responsible to the Board for the proper operation of town affairs. 
1 The video recording can be found at http://98.118.96.186/vod/1550-Selectmens-Meeting-ApriI-6-2016-Medium-
vl.mp4. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
I 
Specifically, the Town Manager is to keep the Board fully informed as to the needs of the town 
and to recommend to the Board for adoption, such measures requiring action by them or by the 
town as the Town Manager deems necessary; to keep the Board and the Finance Committee fully 
informed as to the financial condition of the town and to make recommendations to the Board 
and to other elected and appointed officials as the Town Manager deems necessary or expedient; 
and to perform such other duties as necessary or as may be assigned by the charter, by by-law, by 
town meeting vote or by the Board. See Ashland Town Charter, Section 5-6 (d), (j), (1)-
During an April 6, 2016 Board meeting, Mr. Herbert presented to the Board a list of goals 
and objectives he set for himself. Two of those objectives were to create a strategic planning 
working group and to develop a strategic growth and development plan. The Board did not 
discuss any of the specific goals or objectives on the list but simply voted to "accept and approve 
the Town Manager Goals and Objectives as presented." 
Mr. Herbert informed the Board during May 18, 2016 and July 6, 2016 meetings that he 
would be forming a Committee which would consist of approximately 20 individuals. In the Fall 
of 2016, Mr. Herbert appointed thirteen individuals to the Committee.3 Between the fall of 2016 
and the fall of 2017, the Committee met approximately eight to ten times but did not post notice 
for any meetings or keep minutes. While the Committee is still active, it has not met since the 
fall of 2017. 
The primary function of the Committee is to advise Mr. Herbert as to the most efficient 
and effective methods for reaching various groups within the community; and to provide insight 
into those groups' goals, objectives, concerns and desires. Any recommendations provided by 
the Committee may be accepted or rejected by Mr. Herbert. Mr. Herbert will then prepare a 
strategic plan, which is to be used as a tool to guide town decision-making over the next twenty 
years with respect to use of land, promotion of affordable housing, economic development, 
improvement of transportation, and assessment of open space and recreation. Ultimately, the 
plan will be presented to the Board simply as evidence that Mr. Herbert met his goal of creating 
a strategic growth and development plan for the Town. 
DISCUSSION 
A "public body" subject to the Open Meeting Law is any "multiple-member board, 
commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any 
county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Supreme Judicial 
Court recognized an exemption to the Open Meeting Law in Connelly v. School Committee of 
Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991). In Connelly, the Court held that where an individual public 
official creates a committee to advise that person on a decision that he has the sole authority to 
make, that committee is not subject to the Open Meeting Law. Id., 409 Mass. at 235. 
3 The Committee includes a Library Trustee; one member of the Ashland Redevelopment Authority, Board of 
Selectmen, School Committee, Planning Board, and Open Space and Recreation Committee; two members of the 
Warren Woods Adhoc Committee; the Assistant Town Manager; the Economic Development Director; and several 
members of the community. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The complaints allege that the Committee is subject to the Open Meeting Law and 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post notices of meetings and maintain meeting 
minutes. Town Counsel Feodoroff contends that the Committee was created at the discretion of 
the Town Manager and it therefore falls within the Cormelly exception. Here, Mr. Herbert 
created the Committee of his own volition; he was not directed to do so by the Board and the 
Board never voted to create the Committee. Although Mr. Herbert appeared before the Board on 
several occasions and provided updates, neither the Committee nor Mr. Herbert was tasked by 
the Board with bringing any recommendations before the Board. See OML 2015-93; OML 
2014-56.4 Ultimately, Mr. Herbert will prepare a strategic plan based on information and 
recommendations provided to him by the Committee. We conclude that the Committee was 
created by a public official to advise him on a decision - the creation of a strategic plan - that he 
retained the sole authority to make, and thus the Committee fell within the Connelly exception to 
the definition of "public body." See Connelly, 409 Mass. at 235. Therefore, the Committee was 
not subject to the Open Meeting Law, and thus not required to post notice or maintain minutes of 
its meetings. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
cc; Stephen Morgan 
Town Manager Michael Herbert 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 