===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
October 18, 2018 
OML 2018-140
Mina Makarious, Esq.
Anderson & Kreiger LLP 
50 Milk Street, 21st Floor 
Boston, MA 02109
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Makarious:
This office received a complaint from Grant Carrow on June 1, alleging that the 
Lexington Board of Selectmen (the “Board”), Lexington Historic Districts Commission (the 
“Commission”), and the Lexington Historic Districts Commission Ad Hoc 40C Study 
Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board, Commission, and Committee on March 26, and 
you responded, on behalf of the Board, Commission, and Committee by letter dated April 13. 
The complaint alleges that the Board, Commission, and Committee discussed and took action 
on a topic, special legislation, that was not sufficiently detailed on its meeting notices, and 
that the Committee and Commission failed to post minutes to the municipal website.
Following our review, we find that the Board, Commission, and Committee did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the collective response to the complaint by the three public bodies, and the 
complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notice of, and 
open session minutes from, the Commission’s March 1 meeting; the notices of, and open 
session minutes from, the Board’s October 30, 2017, November 27, 2017, and March 7 
meetings; and the notice of, and open session minutes from, the Committee’s March 8 
meeting.
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Commission was created by a Special Act of the 
Legislature, Chapter 447, Acts of 1956. In 1960, the State Legislature enacted enabling 
legislation in General Laws Chapter 40C (“40C”) to standardize the administration and 
practices of historic district commissions across the Commonwealth.
During an October 30, 2017, meeting, the Board established the Committee and tasked 
it with updating the Town’s historic districts governing legislation. Specifically, the 
Committee was to compare Chapter 447 of the Acts of 1956 with 40C, and then present its 
findings and recommendations to the Commission and Board as to whether the Town should 
convert its special legislation to the statewide 40C legislation.
During a November 27, 2017, meeting, the Board appointed five individuals to the 
Committee. The Committee met five times between January 8 and March 8.
The Commission posted notice of a meeting to be held on March 1 at 6:00 P.M. The 
notice included one formal hearing, two continued hearings, and five “Action Items.” One of 
the topics under Action Items was “Review of HDC Amendments to Chapter 447, and Vote.”
The Commission’s March 1 meeting was held as planned. During the meeting, the 
Commission reviewed the changes to amend Chapter 447 of the Acts of 1956 and 
unanimously voted “to accept the amendments of the enabling legislation, chapter 447, 1956, 
and that the proposed amendments go forward [to Town Meeting].”
The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on March 7 at 7:00 P.M. The notice 
included sixteen topics, including “Update - ATM 2018 Warrant Article 45 - Amend Historic 
Districts Commission Special Act.” A separately posted “Agenda Item Summary” further 
explained that the Chair of the Commission would present the report of the Committee to the 
Board.
The Board’s March 7 meeting was held as planned. During the meeting, the Board 
heard the findings of the Committee with respect to its comparison of the Town’s special 
legislation to the statewide 40C legislation. The Board discussed certain of the Committee’s 
recommendations, including the addition of definitions, changes to Commission members’ 
terms of office, and the nominating process.
The Committee posted notice of a meeting to be held on March 8 at 7:00 P.M. The 
only topic on the notice was “Public presentation of proposed amendments to the Historic 
Districts Commissions enabling legislation, Special Act Chapter 447.”
The Committee’s March 8 meeting was held as planned. Committee Chair Anne 
Eccles gave a power point presentation of the proposed amendments to Chapter 447, 
including the addition of certain definitions, modernizing the nominating process for
2

===PAGE 3===
Commission members, clarification of notifications, and the strengthening of penalties.2 The 
Committee then heard from members of the public.
DISCUSSION
I. The Commission. Board, and Committee Posted Sufficiently Detailed Meeting
Notices.
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body must post notice of every meeting at 
least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting.” Id. The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We 
generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could 
read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See 
OML 2018-13; OML 2015-35.3
The complaint alleges that the Commission’s March 1 meeting notice, the Board’s 
March 7 meeting notice, and the Committee’s March 8 meeting notice were all insufficiently 
detailed with respect to each public body’s discussion of the Town’s special legislation.4 
Although the notices referred to the legislation in different ways — either by specific reference 
to Chapter 447 or to the Historic Districts Commission Special Act - we conclude that each 
notice contained sufficient detail because the notices included a reference to the Commission 
and specified that each public body was reviewing amendments to the legislation. The 
discussions by each public body that ensued were, in fact, about the amendments to the 
special legislation. Although the March 1 Commission notice did not include reference to the 
warrant article, and the March 7 Board notice did not include reference to the Committee, 
public bodies need not list each and every detail about a topic in order to comply with the 
law’s requirements. See OML 2018-22; 2014-122.
2 Anne Eccles is a member of and Chair of both the Committee and the Commission.
3 Open Meeting Law determinations and decimations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
4 In his request for further review, the complainant suggests that the notices for Commission and Committee 
meetings held in January and February were also insufficiently detailed. However, we find that these allegations 
were not included within the original complaint to the public body and are untimely, and we therefore decline to 
review them. Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 
30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). When an alleged violation occurs during an open 
meeting, the alleged violation is reasonably discoverable at the time it occurs. See OML 2014-85; OML 2012- 
52.
3

===PAGE 4===
II. The Commission and Committee are Not Required under the Open Meeting
Law to Post Minutes to a Website.
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, 
the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes 
must be reviewed and approved in a timely manner, which as of October 6, 2017, means 
“within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later.” See G.L. 
c. 30A, § 22(c); 940 CMR 29.11. Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a 
meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2014-15; OML 2012-91.
The complaint alleges that minutes from Commission meetings held since November 
2017 and Committee meetings held since January 2018 have not been “posted” to the 
municipal website. We note that the Open Meeting Law does not require that public bodies 
post their meeting minutes to a website, or that minutes be posted with the Town Clerk. See 
OML 2013-103. The Open Meeting Law merely requires that meeting minutes be made 
available within 10 days of a request. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). Nonetheless, the 
Commission and Committee have chosen to post their meeting minutes on the municipal 
website and have notified the complainant that minutes from their meetings are available at 
that location. Further, in response to the complaint, the Committee provided copies of all its 
meeting minutes to the complainant.
In his request for further review, the complainant clarified that the Commission and 
Committee failed to approve their minutes in a timely manner. We generally decline to 
review an allegation that was not included within the original complaint to the public body 
because the public body has not had an opportunity to respond to it. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 
940 CMR 29.05(3). We find that this allegation was not clearly raised in the original 
complaint and thus we do not review its merits. However, we remind both the Commission 
and Committee that the Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes be reviewed and 
approved in a timely manner, as explained above.
Finally, the complaint alleges that Public Hearing announcements are not available on 
the municipal website, and that “the Committee’s presentation with exact statutory language 
changes has not been posted to the Town Meeting website.” The Open Meeting Law does not 
govern any aspect of Town Meeting, nor does it require that documents used by a public body 
be posted to the municipal website; rather, the minutes of a public body’s meeting must 
include a list of all documents and exhibits used by the public body during the meeting. See 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 22(a); OML 2012-91. Further, the law also does not govern the 
requirements for conducting a public hearing. Therefore, we decline to review, and offer no 
opinion on, whether any actions taken by the Committee or Commission could be a violation 
of any separate law or regulation governing public hearings. See OML 2014-31; OML 
Declination 1-25-18 (Rowley Planning Board); OML Declination 1-29-15 (Holbrook 
Planning Board).
4

===PAGE 5===
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board, Commission, and Committee did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this 
determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that 
may be pending with our office or the Board, Commission and Committee. Please feel free to 
contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
fj \^ l,-£
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Grant Carrow
Lexington Board of Selectmen 
Lexington Historic Districts Commission
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
5
