===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 18, 2017 
OML 2017-148 
Swansea Board of Selectmen 
c/o John McAuliffe 
Swansea Town Administrator 
81 Main Street 
Swansea, MA 02777 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. McAuliffe: 
This office received complaints from CJ Ferry on June 30 and from Patrick 
Higgins on July 17 alleging that the Swansea Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 Mr. Ferry's complaint was originally 
filed with the Board on June 15, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter 
dated June 29. Mr. Higgins' complaint was originally filed with the Board on June 28, 
and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated July 14. Mr. Ferry's 
complaint alleges that the Board's June 13 meeting notice lacked sufficient detail. Mr. 
Higgins' complaint alleges that the Board 1) did not properly review a prior Open 
Meeting Law complaint; and 2) failed to provide sufficient detail in the Board's June 27 
meeting notice.2 
Following our review, we find that the notice of the Board's June 27 meeting was 
not sufficiently detailed. With respect to the remaining allegations, we find that the 
Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaints, the Board's responses to the complaints, and the 
complaints filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notices 
and minutes from the Board's June 13 and June 27 meetings. 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 The complaint also alleges that two Board members separately interviewed a candidate for employment 
outside of a noticed meeting. We decline to review this allegation because, even if true, it would not 
constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. Public bodies in Swansea file meeting notices with 
the municipal clerk, who then posts them on a three-panel bulletin board covered by glass 
outside of the Town Hall. The bulletin board has limited space, and multiple-page 
notices must be spread out so that each page can be viewed. 
The notice for the Board's June 13 meeting included a topic listed as "Annual Re-
appointments (on file at the Clerk's Office)." Another topics was listed as "Trash 
Abatements (on file at the Clerk's Office)." According to the Board's response to the 
complaint, the abatement-request information consisted of 10 or more pages, which was 
on file with the town clerk's office. The single-page notice was timely posted to the 
bulletin board. During the June 13 meeting, the Board reviewed and approved trash 
abatement requests. The Board also reviewed and approved annual appointments to town 
positions and boards. The list of specific appointments is attached to the minutes and 
includes 87 individual names for 32 boards and committees, listed on four pages. 
The notice for the Board's June 27 meeting included a topic listed as "Annual 
Appointments (on file at the Town Clerk's Office and Selectmen's Clerk)." The single-
page notice was timely posted to the bulletin board. During the June 27 meeting, the 
Board voted to delegate the task of responding to a prior Open Meeting Law complaint to 
the town administrator. The Board also reviewed and approved annual appointments to 
town positions and boards, specifically Shellfish Warden deputies and members of the 
Town Americans with Disabilities Act Committee, Community Response Coordinator, 
Emergency Management Agency, Public Access Oversight Committee, and Solid 
Waste/Hazardous Waste Committee. The minutes do not reflect any discussion related to 
the appointments. The Board approved the appointments by majority vote. The list of 
specific appointments is attached to the minutes and includes 22 individual names and 
positions listed on a single page. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Board Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Referring an Open 
Meeting Law Complaint to the Town Administrator for Response. 
Within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, a public 
body must review the complaints to ascertain the time, date, place, and circumstances that 
constitute the alleged violation. 940 CMR 29.05(4). Unless an extension has been 
granted by the Attorney General, the public body must review the complaint's 
allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send the Attorney General a copy of 
the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. Id. Nothing in the 
regulations prevents a public body, once it has reviewed a complaint during a meeting, 
from delegating its response to an individual, such as a town administrator. That the 
Board may have chosen to refer the complaint rather than discuss its substance is the 
Board's prerogative. Accordingly, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
II. The Board's June 13 Meeting Notice was Sufficiently Detailed. 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy 
surrounding deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. 
School Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). To that end, a public body 
must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, 
Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b). Notices must include "a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." Id. The 
listing of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a 
topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the 
topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 
2015-35.3 
The Board's June 13 meeting notice listed "Annual Re-appointments" as a 
discussion topic and informed the public that the appointments were "on file at the 
Clerk's Office." Another topic listed "Trash Abatements" and informed the public that 
the appointments were "on file at the Clerk's Office." In OML 2016-167, our office 
reviewed a similar complaint against the Board. In that determination, we concluded that 
the notice for the Board meeting during which it considered the annual appointments was 
not sufficiently specific where the notice listed a discussion topic as "Annual Re-
Appointments" and another topic as "Trash Fee Abatements." In that determination, we 
wrote that the topics "should have included specific details about each appointment and 
each abatement applicant." 
We have informally advised public bodies that a notice that cannot fit on a 
bulletin board may reference additional information to be found at the municipal clerk's 
office or at another other easily accessible location. For example, where a public body 
attempts to post a notice for annual appointments that, because of the large number of 
appointments, consists of many pages that would not fit on the bulletin board, the Board 
may post a notice listing the specific positions to be appointed and refer the public to the 
town clerk's office for the full details and list of candidates. However, this guidance is 
offered to afford some flexibility to allow public bodies to function. It should be invoked 
only where it is not practical to post the full notice. 
Here, the Board asserted that it was not practical to post a notice listing the full 
details of each appointment and each abatement applicant. Doing so would have added 
as much as 14 pages to the notice, which could not all fit on the bulletin board.4 Thus, it 
was appropriate for the Board to list the topics in the notice, and provide guidance to the 
public as to where additional details could be found. Accordingly, we find that the Board 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 We note that, on June 30, the complainant provided our office with photographs showing ample space 
available on the bulletin board, possibly for at least an additional 15 pages of notices. While it is not clear 
how many notices were posted to the Board immediately prior to the Board's June 13 meeting, we accept 
that it would not be practical for a public body to post a 14-page notice and take up all remaining space on 
a bulletin board where meeting notices for other town public bodies would likely need to be posted. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
did not violate the Open Meeting Law. However, the Board could have improved the 
notice by making it clear that the additional information was available in the town clerk's 
office and the Board's clerk's office, as opposed to identifying the more ambiguous 
"Clerk's Office." The Board could also have improved the notice by offering some 
information on the notice itself about the appointments or abatement requests under 
consideration, even if listing specific items in a paragraph. We encourage the Board to 
take this approach in the future. 
III. The Board's June 27 Meeting Notice was Not Sufficiently Detailed. 
The Board's June 27 meeting notice listed "Annual Appointments" as a 
discussion topic and informed the public that the appointments were "on file at the Town 
Clerk's Office and Selectmen's Clerk." In this instance, we had previously explained 
that the Board should make every effort to include the appointments in the notice. Where 
doing so was not practical, the Board could refer to additional information on file with 
the town clerk. Here, the Board has not claimed that the bulletin board was full or could 
not fit a single additional page. Nor did the Board claim that the specific appointments 
were not reasonably anticipated by the chair. The Board could have listed the positions 
to be appointed (listed in the meeting minutes in four lines) and could have attached to 
the notice one additional page listing the anticipated appointments. The Board should 
have included this additional detail about the positions and candidates for appointment in 
the meeting notice. Therefore, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the notice for the Board's June 27 
meeting was not sufficiently specific as required by the Open Meeting Law. We order 
the Board's immediate and future compliance with the law, including the specific 
guidance as to how to notice annual appointments. We caution that a similar future 
violation of the Open Meeting law may be considered an intentional violation of the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office 
or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
CONCLUSION 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
CJ Ferry 
4 
===PAGE 5===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt 
of a final order. 
5 