===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
July 18, 2012 
OML 2012 — 59 
Mark R. Reich, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Reich: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Edward Quinn, dated January 12, 2012, 
alleging that the Freetown Soil Conservation Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about 
November 15, 2011, and the Board responded to the original complaint by letter dated November 
23, 2011. In his complaint, Mr. Quinn alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
during an October 24, 2011 open meeting by limiting public participation to two attendees and 
allowing each person only one minute to address the Board. The complaint also asserts that the 
subsequent meeting minutes may be incomplete, speculates that the Board improperly 
deliberated prior to the meeting, and alleges that the Board failed to provide clear notice 
regarding the meeting's start time. 1  
In resolving this complaint, we reviewed the November 15, 2011 complaint filed with the 
Board; the Board's November 23, 2011 response; the January 12, 2012 complaint filed with this 
office; and the draft and final minutes for the Board's October 24, 2011 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
limiting public participation at the October 24, 2011 meeting. Additionally, we find that the 
Board properly recorded a "fact sheet" of recommendations submitted by a member of the public 
in the meeting minutes, and we find no evidence to support the assertion that the Board 
improperly deliberated in advance of the October 24, 2011 meeting. Finally, we find that the 
Board gave adequate notice of this meeting by posting the correct date, time, and place at least 
48 hours in advance of the meeting. 
The complainant makes several inquiries regarding the Board's operations that do not pertain to the Open Meeting 
Law, and therefore will not be addressed by this letter. 
0 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. The Board 
planned to hold a meeting on October 17, 2011. According to the complaint, Board members 
and members of the public, including Mr. Quinn, convened for this purpose on that date. 
However, after discovering a notice posting error, the Board decided to postpone the meeting 
until October 24, 2011. When announcing this schedule change to members of the public in 
attendance on October 17, 2011, Board members incorrectly indicated that the rescheduled 
meeting would begin at 5:30 p.m. However, the official meeting notice that was subsequently 
posted on October 20, 2011 reflected the actual start time of 5:00 p.m. 
The October 24, 2011 meeting began at 5:00 p.m. During the Board's discussion of the 
Cape Cod Aggregates soil removal permit application, the Chairman allowed two members of 
the public to speak, each for one minute: Mr. Quinn and another attendee. Mr. Quinn expressed 
concerns regarding the impact of Cape Cod Aggregates soil removal procedures on his property. 
The other member of the public who addressed the Board submitted a "fact sheet," outlining 
recommended improvements to Cape Cod Aggregates' permit conditions. The Chairman 
acknowledged receipt of the fact sheet, but the Board did not discuss that document's contents 
during the meeting. The Board then discussed the Cape Cod Aggregates permit application and 
voted to approve the application for a three-year period. 
DISCUSSION 
The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by limiting public 
participation during a meeting, and raises a number of concerns regarding the Board's handling 
of meeting minutes, deliberation outside of an open meeting, and notice. We address each issue 
in turn. 
A. The Board Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Limiting Public Participation.  
The Open Meeting Law states that "[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body 
without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(4 The Open Meeting Law gives clear authority to the chair of a public body to 
determine who may speak to the body, and does not require that the body allow public 
participation during a meeting. Although the chair of a public body determines who may address 
the public body at an open meeting, we encourage public bodies to allow public participation 
during meetings whenever reasonably possible. See OML 2012-23. 2  
The complainant alleges that the "Board did not allow citizens the opportunity to express 
their concerns about CCA's [q]uarry [o]peration prior to renewing their permit." The Chairman 
had discretion under the Open Meeting Law to decide who could speak at the meeting, and 
therefore did not violate that law by allowing only two members of the public to speak for one 
minute at a time. The Division of Open Government only enforces the Open Meeting Law, 
therefore we express no opinion as to whether any other law may have required that the 
Chairman allow additional members of the public to speak during the meeting. 
2  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
2 
===PAGE 3===
B. The Board's Summary of the Discussion of the Fact Sheet at the Meeting Was  
Sufficient For Purposes of the Open Meeting Law.  
Additionally, the Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain 
accurate minutes of all meetings," including "a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The Open Meeting Law does not define what it means for a 
document to be used at a meeting. At a minimum, it is clear that where a document is physically 
present, verbally identified, and the contents are discussed by the members of a public body 
during an open session meeting, it has been "used" for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. 
OML 2012-42. While such documents must be listed in the minutes, the Attorney General's 
Open Meeting Law Guide states, ". . . the documents and exhibits listed in the minutes need not 
be attached to or physically stored with the minutes." February 10, 2012 at page 13. 
The Board's minutes from the October 24, 2011 meeting note that a member of the public 
submitted a "fact sheet" of recommendations regarding the Cape Cod Aggregates' permit 
conditions for the Board's consideration. The minutes summarize this exchange by stating, 
"Ms[1 Hanna requested permission to hand the soil board clerk [the] fact sheet to be included in 
the minutes," and the "Chairman allowed" the submission. Although the "fact sheet" was 
physically present and verbally identified at the meeting, the minutes do not indicate that its 
contents were ever discussed by the Board. Thus, for purposes of the Open Meeting Law, it was 
not "used" at the meeting. See OML 2012-42. Because the "fact sheet" was not used at the 
meeting, the Open Meeting Law does not require that it be listed in the meeting minutes. $ee 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Furthermore, we note that, although the Board did attach the "fact sheet" 
to the minutes, it was not required to do so, even if it had used the document at the meeting. The 
Board therefore complied with the Open Meeting Law by simply including in the minutes a 
summary of the discussion that took place regarding the submission of the "fact sheet" by a 
member of the public, and it was not required to include any further detail about that document's 
contents in the minutes. 
C. The Board Did Not Deliberate Prior to its Meeting.  
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body conduct all deliberations during a 
properly posted meeting. See  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(a). A "deliberation" is defined, in relevant 
part as, "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, 
between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. 
at § 18. The complaint suggests that the Board deliberated regarding the Cape Cod Aggregates 
permit application prior to the October 24, 2011 meeting. In support of this allegation, Mr. 
Quinn asserts that the Board' s deliberation at the meeting was inexplicably short. However, the 
minutes indicate that a detailed discussion regarding the Cape Cod Aggregates permit application 
took place at the meeting and, in its November 23, 2011 response to the complaint, the Board 
denies the occurrence of any other deliberation on the subject. The Board's response notes that 
"[t]he minutes reflect that there was substantially more discussion of the Cape Cod Aggregates 
soil removal permit renewal application than with regard to other applications." In the absence 
of evidence to the contrary, we credit the Board's response and fmd that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law by improperly deliberating in advance of the October 24, 2011 
meeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
01, 
D. The Board Provided Sufficient Notice in Advance of its Meeting.  
Finally, the Open Meeting Law requires that "a public body shall post notice of every 
meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays," and every notice shall include "the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing 
of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). The Board met this requirement by posting notice for the October 24, 2011 meeting on 
October 20, 2011. This posting contained all essential facts, including the meeting start time of 
5:00 p.m. Although Board members purportedly told members of the public on October 17, 
2011 that the meeting would begin at 5:30 p.m., the Board properly announced the official 
meeting time when it posted notice of the meeting on October 20, 2011. Because the official 
meeting notice listed the correct time for the meeting, we find that the Board did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by limiting public participation at the October 24, 2011 meeting. Additionally, we find that 
the Board properly recorded a "fact sheet" of recommendations submitted by a member of the 
public in the meeting minutes, and we find no evidence to support the assertion that the Board 
improperly deliberated in advance of the October 24, 2011 meeting. Finally, we find that the 
Board gave adequate notice of this meeting by posting the correct date, time, and place at least 
48 hours in advance of the meeting. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this 
letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
onathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Mr. Edward Quinn 
Freetown Soil Conservation Board 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
4 