===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 2, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 155 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Etty Singer, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
50 Braintree Hill Office Park, Suite 410 
Braintree, MA 02184 
esinger@mhtl.com 
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Singer: 
 
This office received a complaint from Christine Barraford on May 15, 2025,
1 alleging 
that the Cohasset Affordable Housing Trust (the “Trust”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Trust on or about April 25, and 
you responded on behalf of the Trust by letter dated May 14. The complaint alleges that, with 
respect to the Trust’s April 16 meeting, the Trust 1) entered executive session without having 
indicated on the notice for the meeting that the Trust would convene in executive session;
2 and 
2) the notice indicated the wrong date for a set of meeting minutes that were to be approved. We 
understand the complaint to additionally allege that instead of posting approved minutes for its 
April 16 meeting online, the Trust posted the notice for the for the April 16 meeting mislabeled 
as being the minutes for that meeting. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Trust violated the Open Meeting Law by posting 
an insufficiently specific notice for its April 16 meeting where it listed the wrong date for the 
meeting minutes to be reviewed. We find that the Trust did not violate the Law as alleged with 
respect to inclusion of an executive session topic on the notice for the April 16 meeting. Finally, 
we decline to review whether the Trust mislabeled a document posted online as being the 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 We note that attached to the complaint is a notice for a meeting the Trust held on March 12, not April 16. The 
Trust noted this discrepancy in its response to the complaint. The Complainant has not acknowledged or addressed 
the discrepancy. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
minutes of the April 16 meeting. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting 
Law complaint, the Trust’s response, and the request for further review. We also reviewed the 
notice for the Trust’s April 16 meeting as well as the minutes and a video recording of the 
meeting.3 Finally, reviewed the notice for and minutes of the Trust’s May 14 meeting.  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Trust posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
April 16. The notice included, among other things, the following topics: 
 
Executive Session: To discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or 
mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss 
the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public 
officer, employee, staff member or individual. The individual to be discussed in 
such executive session shall be notified in writing by the public body at least 48 
hours prior to the proposed executive session; provided, however, that notification 
may be waived upon written agreement of the parties. Open Meeting Law 
Complaint against the Cohasset Affordable Housing Trust. 
 
. . .  
 
Minutes: February 12th, 2025. 
 
 The Trust held its  April 16 meeting as scheduled. During the meeting, the Trust’s 
chair read aloud the above executive session topic verbatim. Thereafter a motion to 
convene in executive session was made, seconded, and passed. After the executive 
session, the Trust reconvened in open session. In open session, the Trust approved, 
among other things, a set of meeting minutes. The specific meeting minutes being 
approved were not identified during the meeting; however, based on the complaint, the 
Trust’s response to the complaint, and the minutes of the April 16 meeting, we 
understand that the minutes approved were for a meeting held on March 12.   
 
 Following receipt of the present complaint, the Trust posted notice for a meeting 
to be held on May 14. Included on the notice, among other things, was the following 
topic: “Administrative . . . Minutes: March 12th, 2025, April 16th, 2025.” During its May 
14 meeting, the Trust voted to approve the minutes of its March 12 and April 16 
meetings.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
The notice must include the date, time, and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that 
the chair, and any other individual authorized to create the notice, reasonably anticipates, 48 
 
3 A video recording of the Trust’s April 16 meeting can be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gnz0rjZxZ7w. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
hours in advance of the meeting, will be discussed. See G.L. c . 30A, § 20(b); OML 2022-206; 
OML 2020-152.4 The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider 
a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic 
and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2023-3; OML 
2019-134; OML 2015-35. Where the chair anticipates reviewing or approving specific meeting 
minutes, the notice must identify the specific minutes to be reviewed or approved. See OML 
2024-209; OML 2023-124; OML 2020-34; OML 2017-92.  
 
If the public body anticipates convening in executive session, the body must list the 
exec
utive session topic on the notice in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. See OML 2024-142; OML 2023-140; OML 
2016-95. Before entering executive session, the chair must also publicly state the purpose for the 
executive session in the same level of detail. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). When convening in 
executive session to discuss an Open Meeting Law complaint, the meeting notice and the open 
session announcement should identify the Open Meeting Law complaint to be discussed by, for 
example, including the complainant’s name or other descriptive information about the complaint. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b), 21(b); 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b); OML 2025-54; OML 2024-193; OML 
2019-161. In addition to the open session announcement described above, prior to convening in 
executive session a majority of members of the public body must vote by roll call to convene in 
executive session and the chair must announce whether the body will reconvene in open session 
after the conclusion of the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(2), (4). 
 
 First,
 the complaint alleges that the Trust convened in executive session on April 16 
without having included an executive session topic on the meeting notice. We find that the Trust 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged where the notice for the April 16 meeting 
clearly listed an executive session topic to discuss an Open Meeting Law complaint. Although 
we find no violation here, we note that the notice and open session announcement did not 
identify the specific Open Meeting Law complaint to be discussed and that prior to convening in 
executive session the chair did not announce whether the Trust would reconvene in open session. 
We remind the Trust of its obligation to comply with the requirements of the Law when 
convening in executive session.  
 
 Second, the complaint alleges that the Trust violated the Open Meeting Law where the 
notice for its April 16 meeting listed the minutes of its February 12 meeting for approval but 
instead the Trust approved the minutes of its March 12 meeting. The Trust acknowledges that it 
included the wrong date for the minutes to be approved but asserts that where this was a 
typographical error and did not “impact the public’s ability to attend [the meeting] or understand 
the matters to be discussed” it does not “rise to the level of a violation.” We disagree. Although 
we credit the Trust’s assertion that including the date February 12 instead of March 12 was an 
unintentional, typographical error, we nonetheless find that this error rendered the April 16 
meeting notice insufficiently specific. Furthermore, because the minutes approved during the 
April 16 meeting were not verbally identified, anyone attending the meeting would have 
reasonably assumed that the Trust approved the minutes of its February 12 meeting rather than 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
those of its March 12 meeting. Because the notice for the April 16 meeting listed the wrong date 
for the minutes to be approved, we find that the Trust violated the Open Meeting Law by posting 
an insufficiently specific notice.     
 
Having found a violation, we now consider whether, as the Trust asserts, the Trust cured 
the violation. In its response the Trust asserts that it cured any violation because it planned to 
reapprove the minutes of its March 12 meeting during its May 14 meeting. Violations of the 
Open Meeting Law may be cured by independent, deliberative action that is not merely a 
ceremonial acceptance and perfunctory ratification of action taken in violation of the Law. See 
Pearson v. Bd. of Selectmen of Longmeadow, 49 Mass. App. Ct. 119, 125 (2000); OML 2020-7; 
OML 2016-49. Generally, that means conducting deliberations anew at a subsequent meeting 
that is accessible to the public and for which proper notice is provided.  
 
The Trust posted notice of a meeting to be held on May 14. The notice included the topic 
“Admin
istrative . . . Minutes: March 12th, 2025, April 16th, 2025.” During the May 14 meeting, 
the Trust voted to approve the minutes of its March 12 and April 16 meetings. We were unable 
to locate a video recording of the Trust’s May 14 meeting and the minutes of the May 14 
meeting only indicate that the Trust voted to approve the listed minutes, they do not record any 
discussion related to this topic. Based on the information before us we cannot determine whether 
the Trust cured the violation. Even acknowledging that the Trust’s initial approval of the minutes 
of its March 12 meeting was very brief, there is no evidence before us that the Trust engaged in 
independent, deliberative action that was not merely a ceremonial acceptance and perfunctory 
ratification of action it had already taken. Therefore, we decline to find that the Trust cured the 
violation. See OML 2023-115 (acknowledging “that the Board’s December 7 consideration of 
the license renewals was very brief,” but finding nonetheless, “that the Board did not cure the 
December 7 violation where, on January 18, 2023, it simply voted to ratify its earlier votes”). 
However, because the notice for the May 14 meeting correctly listed for approval the minutes of 
the March 12 meeting, we decline to order further remedial action.  
 
Finally, we decline to review whether the Trust posted online a mislabeled document 
inste
ad of the minutes of its April 16 meeting. The Division’s statutory authority concerns 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Open Meeting Law does 
not require public bodies to post meeting minutes to a website. See OML 2023-179; OML 2015-
173; OML 2013-117. Although we encourage public bodies to accurately label records they post 
to websites, an allegation that the Trust posted a mislabeled meeting notice rather than meeting 
minutes, even if true, would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law. Therefore, we 
decline to review this allegation.5  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Trust violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently specific notice for its meeting held on April 16 where it listed the 
minutes for approval as being those of its February 12 meeting when in fact the Trust approved 
the minutes of its March 12 meeting. We find that the Trust did not otherwise violate the Law as 
 
5 In its response the Trust explains that the mistaken posting involved the notice and minutes for its March 12 
meeting, not the April 16 meeting, and that it has corrected the mistaken posting.   
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
alleged. We order the Trust’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and 
caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. 
Because the Trust has since approved the minutes of its March 12 meeting during a meeting for 
which sufficient notice was provided, we do not order additional remedial action.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Trust or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,      
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Cohasset Affordable Housing Trust c/o Cassandra Thayer, Town Planner  
(via email: cthayer@cohassetma.org)  
 Leisa Legge, Cohasset Town Clerk (via email: elegge@cohassetma.gov) 
Christine Barraford (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
