===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
October 8, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 131 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Richard Bombardier, Chair 
Granby Board of Health 
215 West State Street 
Granby, MA 01033 
 
 
 RE: 
Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Bombardier: 
This office received a complaint from Greg Williams on October 8, 2019, alleging that 
the Granby Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 17, and the Board responded by 
letter dated August 5.1 In his complaint, Mr. Williams alleges that the Board held a meeting 
without posting notice.  
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response 
to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed the minutes 
of the Board’s July 17 meeting, and we spoke by phone with the complainant and with Board 
Chair Richard Bombardier.  
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. A week-long Cub Scout day camp was scheduled to take 
place at the Chicopee Sportmen’s Club from July 15-19.  On the Saturday immediately 
preceding the start of camp, Board member Herb Abelson, along with a contracted health 
inspector, inspected the premises where the camp was to take place.  Mr. Abelson discovered 
that there was an active firearms shooting range on the premises of the Chicopee Sportsmen’s 
Club located in close proximity to the Cub Scout camp area, with no physical barrier separating 
the shooting range from the camp area.  Mr. Abelson contacted Board Chair Bombardier, who 
very soon thereafter convened an emergency meeting of the Board.  Although the camp had been 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2019. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
held at the same location for the past several years, we find that the members of the Board were 
unaware until that day of the camp’s proximity to the active shooting range. 
All three members of the Board participated in a meeting by telephone on Saturday, July 
13.  The Board did not post notice of the meeting.  The Board’s usual method of posting notice is 
that its administrative clerk drafts a meeting notice and sends it to the Town Clerk, who posts the 
notice on the bulletin board outside the municipal building.  During the July 14 meeting, Board 
Chair Bombardier acknowledged that the meeting was convened without posting notice in 
accordance with the Open Meeting Law, but expressed that the situation required immediate 
action to address what the Board perceived as a grave danger to the safety of Cub Scout campers. 
The Board voted to issue an Order of Conditions that there be no firearms discharge at the 
Chicopee Sportsmen’s Club not under the control of the Cub Scouts during the operating hours 
of the camp.   
On the morning of Monday, July 15, when town offices opened, the Board posted notice 
for a meeting to be held on Wednesday, July 17 at 11:15 am.  The July 17 meeting was held as 
scheduled.  After calling the meeting to order, Chair Bombardier explained the circumstances of 
what had occurred on Saturday, including the camp inspection, the emergency meeting of the 
Board, and the issuance of the Order of Conditions.  Chair Bombardier described in detail the 
safety concerns that arose, as well as the action that needed to be taken to eliminate the risk.  The 
Board then voted unanimously to issue the Order of Conditions.  The Board then opened its 
meeting for public comment, and heard from many parents and others affiliated with the camp 
who were upset by the Board’s decision.     
DISCUSSION 
I. The Board permissibly held an emergency meeting on January 31, but violated the Open 
Meeting Law by not posting notice for the meeting.  
 The Open Meeting Law requires th at “[e]xcept in an emergency, in addition to any notice 
otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours 
prior to such meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.  In an emergency, a 
public body shall post notice as soon as reasonably possible prior to such meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). The Open Meeting Law defines an emergency as “a sudden, generally unexpected 
occurrence or set of circumstances demanding immediate action.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18; 940 CMR 
29.02.  The burden of justifying the need for an emergency meeting falls on the public body.  See 
OML 2012-7.2  
 Here, the Board asserts that t he Saturday emergency meeting was warranted as the Board 
sought to address what it perceived as a grave threat to the safety of the Cub Scout campers at a 
camp that was to begin Monday morning.  We agree.  Emergency meetings are reserved for 
circumstances that are unanticipated and require an immediate response.  See OML 2017-131, 
OML 2016-70; OML 2011-45.  Board Chair Bombardier first learned of the safety concerns with 
the camp’s proximity to an active shooting range during the Saturday inspection of the camp 
premises.  In addition, Chair Bombardier sincerely believed that the active firearms shooting 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
range on the premises posed a grave threat to safety, which needed to be addressed immediately 
because the camp was scheduled to begin Monday morning.  We find that the Board acted 
reasonably in holding an emergency meeting because there was a generally unexpected set of 
circumstances that demanded immediate action. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2013-58.  
 Although we find that the meeting q ualified as an “emergency” under the Open Meeting 
Law, our analysis does not end there.  We must also decide whether the Board complied with the 
requirement in the Open Meeting Law that “in an emergency, a public body must post notice of 
the meeting as soon as reasonably possible prior to such meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The 
Board acknowledges that it did not post any notice of the Saturday meeting.  Chair Bombardier 
explained that because town offices were closed, the Board was unable to post notice according 
to its usual process, which involves the Board’s administrative clerk as well as the Town Clerk.  
Chair Bombardier acknowledges that he could have personally handwritten a meeting notice and 
taped it to the bulletin board outside the municipal building a short while before convening the 
meeting of the Board; however, we are cognizant that such a notice almost certainly would not 
have been viewed by anybody prior to the meeting and would not have meaningfully advanced 
the Open Meeting Law’s transparency goals.  Chair Bombardier also expressed to our office that 
in his decades of service on the Board of Health, he cannot recall another instance of an 
emergency meeting being called for which notice could not be posted, and that he has considered 
changes to the Board’s practices to prevent the need for emergency meetings in the future, such 
as scheduling inspections farther in advance of events.    
Although public bodies generally are required to post notice of all meetings, even 
emergency meetings, in these particular circumstances where the meeting was called on 
extremely short notice on a weekend, we find that it was not “reasonably possible” for the Board 
to post notice of its emergency meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Therefore, we find that the 
Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged.3 
 Finally, although not raised in the  complaint, we note that the Board should have created 
and approved minutes of its July 13 meeting, and we recommend that the Board do so at this 
time. 
  
 
3 We also note that, except for meetings that are held pursuant to the Governor’s March 12, 2020, Order Suspending 
Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law in response to the Coronavirus pandemic, meetings must be held in 
person at locations that are accessible to the public.  Meetings by telephone are typically not permitted.  However, in 
the specific facts of this case where we find that the Board was justified in holding an emergency meeting on 
extremely short notice, and where it was not reasonably possible to post notice of the meeting, we decline to find a 
violation for the failure of the three Board members to hold their discussion in person. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not v iolate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Greg Williams (via email:  
 Granby Town Clerk (via email:  
  
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
