===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
December 10, 2018 
OML 2018-153
John Donahue
Principal Assessor
Board of Assessors
Town of West Bridgewater
65 North Main Street
West Bridgewater, MA 02379
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Mr. Donahue:
This office received two complaints from Deborah Cauley on August 24 alleging that the 
West Bridgewater Board of Assessors (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaints were originally filed with the Board on May 21 and June 18, 
and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by separate letters dated June 20, following an 
extension of time granted by our office. The first complaint alleges that the Board restricted Ms. 
Cauley’s right to video record the May 16 meeting. The second complaint alleges that the Board 
deliberated outside of a meeting via Facebook.
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the 
Board’s responses to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed the open session minutes from the Board’s May 19 meeting, as well 
as a video recording of that meeting.1 2 Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on September 
19;3 and with the complainant by telephone on October 3.
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 The video recording was provided to our office by the complainant.
3 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter.

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board duly posted notice for, and held a meeting on, 
May 16. The Board was sitting at a rectangular table that is approximately eight to ten feet in 
length. Chair Stephen McCarthy and Board member Paula Bunker were sitting at either end of 
the table, Board member Cheryl Smith sat at the table facing members of the public, and 
Assessor John Donahue sat at the table with his back to the public. Prior to the commencement 
of the meeting, the complainant informed the Board that she was going to video record the 
meeting.
The Board convened the meeting and Chair McCarthy announced that the meeting was 
being recorded. The complainant then stood up, walked towards the table where the members 
were sitting, and stood behind Ms. Bunker. Chair McCarthy asked the complainant to return to 
her seat, but the complainant refused indicating that she wanted to record Mr. Donahue. Chair 
McCarthy asked her again to return to the seating area with the other members of the public. 
Again, the complainant refused. Ms. Bunker stated that she was not bothered by the 
complainant, but both Chair McCarthy and Ms. Smith indicated that by standing behind the table 
the complainant was disrupting the meeting. For approximately the next ten minutes, the Board 
discussed its options with respect to an individual’s right to video record an open meeting. After 
another request to the complainant by Chair McCarthy to return to her seat and her subsequent 
refusal to do so, Mr. Donahue called the police. Police spoke with the complainant outside of the 
meeting room for approximately five to ten minutes. The Board did not discuss any of the 
noticed topics while the complainant was out of the meeting room. The complainant then 
returned to the meeting room, sat with the other members of the public, and recorded the rest of 
the meeting without incident.
On or about May 20, Ms. Smith posted a comment on Facebook under the West 
Bridgewater Hub group. Both Ms. Smith and Ms. Bunker are members of this Facebook group. 
Ms. Smith’s post suggested that the complainant violated the Open Meeting Law when she 
refused to return to her seat during the May 16 meeting and that such behavior was inexcusable.
DISCUSSION
The complainant alleges that the Board restricted her right to video record the May 16 
meeting. The Open Meeting Law states that “[a]fter notifying the chair of the public body, any 
person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a public body, or 
may transmit the meeting through any medium, subject to reasonable requirements of the chair 
as to the number, placement and operation of equipment used so as not to interfere with the 
conduct of the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). Here, the complainant walked behind the table 
where the Board members were sitting and stood there with her recording device. The Board 
asked her to return to her seat and record the meeting from that location. There was 
disagreement between the complainant and the Board whether her presence behind the table was 
causing a disruption. Ultimately, the complainant was allowed to record the meeting, although 
not in the location she sought. The Board may restrict the recording location during the meeting,
2

===PAGE 3===
so long as the restriction is reasonable. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f); OML 2015-199.4 Moreover, 
no person shall disrupt the proceedings of a meeting, and if a person continues to disrupt the 
proceedings, after a clear warning from the chair, the person may be removed from the meeting. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g). We conclude that the Board’s request that the complainant video 
record the meeting from the seating area was a reasonable restriction because she was able to 
record the meeting and pick up the Board’s discussions from that location. See OML 2015-199. 
The complainant was temporarily removed from the May 16 meeting, after receiving a warning, 
but she returned prior to any of the Board’s discussions of the noticed topics and was able to 
record the remainder of the meeting. As such, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by imposing a reasonable restriction as to the recording location and by requesting 
that the complainant be temporarily removed from the meeting.
The second complaint alleges that Ms. Smith violated the Open Meeting Law when she 
posted a comment on the West Bridgewater Hub Facebook group. The Open Meeting Law was 
enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding deliberation and decisions on which 
public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic body be properly noticed and open to 
members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30 A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 
21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to 
any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines “deliberation” as 
“an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, 
however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or 
the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided than no 
opinion of a member is expressed.” Id, For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” 
is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id.
We find no evidence that a quorum of the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating via Facebook. Here, Ms. Smith posted a comment pertaining to the video recording 
issue that had occurred during the May 16 meeting. While the post related to Board business, we 
find no evidence that the post involved a communication directed to a quorum of the Board, or 
that other Board members responded to the post. The Open Meeting Law does not restrict an 
individual’s right to make comments to the general public. See OML 2017-111. Recognizing 
that it may be difficult to determine whether communication constitutes deliberation under the 
Open Meeting Law, our office cautions public bodies on the use of Facebook and other social 
media. See AGO FAQ on Deliberation and Electronic Communication.5
CONCLUSION
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by imposing a reasonable 
restriction on the complainant’s right to video record the meeting, and where there is no evidence 
that a quorum of the Board deliberated via Facebook. We now consider the complaints 
addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
5 Available at https://www.mass.gov/frequently-asked-questions-about-the-open-meeting-law.
3

===PAGE 4===
complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our 
office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Deborah Cauley
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
