===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
February 13, 2020 
OML 2020- 18
Shanna R. Reed 
Assistant City Solicitor 
Office of the City Solicitor 
59 Court Street 
Westfield, MA 01085
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Reed:
This office received a complaint from David Flaherty on September 171, alleging that the 
Westfield City Council (the “Council”) and Westfield City Council Finance Subcommittee (the 
“Subcommittee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Council and Subcommittee on June 19. After an extension of time 
granted by our office, you responded on behalf of the Council and Subcommittee by letter dated 
July 10. In his complaint, Mr. Flaherty alleges that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law 
when a quorum of the Council deliberated at the Subcommittee’s June 18 meeting without first 
posting notice. Mr. Flaherty also alleges that the Subcommittee failed to create accurate minutes 
of its June 18 meeting.
Following our review, we find that the Council and Subcommittee violated the Open 
Meeting Law in the ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original Open 
Meeting Law complaint, the response to the complaint, the request for further review, notice for 
the June 18 meeting, and the minutes and recording of the June 18 meeting. We also 
communicated by email with Counsel2 and the Complainant.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Council is a thirteen-member body; thus, seven 
members constitute a quorum. The Subcommittee is a three-member body comprised of three
1 All dates are in 2019, unless otherwise stated.
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person going forward.

===PAGE 2===
Council members. The Complainant, David Flaherty, is a Council member but not a member of 
the Subcommittee.
On June 14, the Subcommittee posted notice for a meeting to be held on June 18. The 
notice did not state that the meeting would be a joint meeting with the Council, and the Council 
did not post its own meeting notice. In addition to the three Subcommittee members, nine 
additional Council members attended the June 18 meeting. The Complainant was the only 
Council member not in attendance.
The June 18 Subcommittee meeting was held to conduct budget hearings for the 
departments of Health, Treasurer, Auditor, Purchasing, and Fire. The heads of these departments 
came before the Subcommittee to present their budgets and answer questions. At the meeting, the 
three Subcommittee members sat together on one side of a long table. One by one, each 
department head sat on the opposite side of the table from the Subcommittee and presented their 
department’s budget and answered questions. The audience—which was comprised of the 
additional Council members, City staff there to present or assist in presenting department 
budgets, and a newspaper reporter—was seated behind the department heads and to the sides. In 
general, the Subcommittee does not allow public participation during budget hearings, and 
members of the public are not recognized to speak or ask questions.
During the first department’s presentation, the Subcommittee chair invited his fellow 
Subcommittee members to ask questions as they arose during the presentation and explained that 
“then we’ll obviously open it up to Councilors too.” At approximately twelve minutes into the 
meeting, the Chair asked if there were “any questions just from finance before I open it up?” 
Hearing none, the Chair then asked if there were “any individual questions from the Councilors 
in the room.” Throughout the meeting the Chair recognized Council members, often times using 
the honorific title “Councilor.” Council members were allowed to address questions and 
comments directly to the department heads throughout the meeting, and at times, Council 
members appeared to direct the course of the questioning and discussion. A few times, Council 
members did not even wait to be recognized before addressing a department head. The 
Subcommittee approved the minutes of the June 18 meeting on June 19.
DISCUSSION
L The Council Violated the Open Meeting Law by Deliberating During the Subcommittee’s
June 18 Meeting Without Posting Notice.
Except in an emergency, “a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A,
§ 20(b). A subcommittee of a public body is itself a public body subject to the Open Meeting 
Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Open Meeting Law defines a “meeting” as “a deliberation by a 
public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.” Id. However, this 
definition includes several exceptions, including that the “attendance by a quorum of a public 
body at a meeting of another public body that has complied with the notice requirements of the 
open meeting law” shall not constitute a meeting, “so long as the visiting members communicate 
only by open participation in the meeting on those matters under discussion by the host body and 
do not deliberate.” hi “Deliberation” is defined, in relevant part, as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of
2

===PAGE 3===
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A “quorum” is 
defined as “a simple majority of the members of the public body.” IcL
A quorum of a public body may attend the meeting of another public body without 
posting notice so long as the visiting public body members listen and participate as members of 
the audience and do not deliberate. See OML 2012-6.3 When determining whether a quorum of a 
public body has deliberated while attending the meeting of another public body, we look for 
indicia of deliberation such as whether the visiting body members were seated with the general 
public and whether they participated by open participation. See OML 2016-117; OML 2012-6. 
Here, although the nine additional Council members sat in the audience and, for the most part, 
only spoke when recognized by the chair, they did not otherwise participate in the meeting as 
regular members of the audience would have. In fact, the Council has explained that had 
members of the general public sought to be recognized during the June 18 meeting, they would 
not have been. In contrast, the nine additional Council members were recognized, often times by 
the honorific title “Councilor”; were permitted to address the department heads at length; and 
were allowed to direct the course of the questioning and discussion at times. Overall, 
notwithstanding that the Council members sat in the audience and, for the most part, waited to be 
recognized by the Chair before speaking, the active participation of the Council members lent an 
appearance and feel of a meeting of the full Council. For these reasons, we find that the Council 
deliberated at the June 18 meeting without first posting notice, in violation of the Open Meeting 
Law. See OML 2012-6; OML 2016-117.4
2. The Minutes for the Subcommittee’s June 18 Meeting Are Insufficiently Detailed.
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See 
OML 2017-104; OML 2013-64. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should 
contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 
2019-145; OML 2012-106. Although a transcript of the discussions is not required, and the 
minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented, minutes must include a 
substantive summary of the discussion on each topic. See OML 2018-8; OML 2012-29; OML 
2011-55.
Here, the Subcommittee’s two-and-a-half-hour June 18 meeting is summarized in just 
over one page. The minutes include a short paragraph for each department presentation.
Although each paragraph identifies some of the topics discussed with the department heads, and
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law.
4 In its response the Council suggests that so long as Council members only asked questions of fact and did not share 
their opinions, deliberation did not occur. We disagree. “Deliberation” is broadly defined to include any 
communication between or among a quorum regarding business within the Board’s jurisdiction, even if no opinion 
is expressed and no action is taken. See OML 2019-151.
3

===PAGE 4===
lists which Council and Subcommittee members asked questions, they do not include substantive 
descriptions of the discussions held or the questions asked. We find that this cursory summary of 
the Subcommittee’s two-and-a-half-hour meeting falls short of the requirement that minutes 
contain enough detail that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the 
minutes and understand what occurred.
Additionally, the minutes do not include a list of the documents and other exhibits used at 
the meeting. Therefore, we find that the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to draft and approve accurate minutes for its June 18 meeting. We order the Subcommittee to 
amend its June 18 meeting minutes to include a more detailed summary of the discussions held 
on each topic and a list of any documents and exhibits used during the meeting.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law 
when a quorum of the Council deliberated during the Subcommittee’s June 18 meeting without 
first posting notice. Additionally, we find that the Subcommittee violated the Law by failing to 
create accurate minutes for its June 18 meeting. We order immediate and future compliance with 
the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar violations in the future may be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the Law. 940 CMR 29.02. Additionally, we order the Subcommittee 
to amend its June 18 meeting minutes in accordance with the guidance given above.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Council or Subcommittee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions.
cc: David Flaherty
Westfield City Council
Sincerejyf
:>eth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
4
