===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
June 25, 2012 
OML 2012 - 50 
Robert M. Ethier 
Health Agent 
Wareham Board of Health 
54 Marion Road 
Wareham, MA 02571 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Ethier: 
This office received 6 complaints from Edward Pacewicz, dated April 26, 2011, alleging 
that the Wareham Board of Health (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaints allege that the Board's Subcommittee on Nitrogen Zero Regulations 
(the "Subcommittee") engaged in email deliberations, failed to provide notice for certain 
meetings, and failed to create and maintain meeting minutes. One complaint was filed with the 
Board on March 21, 2011; the remaining five complaints were filed on March 25, 2011. The 
Board replied to the complaints by letter dated March 31, 2011. 
We find that the Subcommittee is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, 
therefore there was no violation of the law. The Wareham Town Meeting enacted a bylaw on 
November 9, 2010 that established a standard for new construction as "nitrogen net zero," which 
would eliminate nitrogen loading from existing sources in Wareham by an amount equal to the 
amount of nitrogen loading generated by new construction through the use of nitrogen offsets. 
The bylaw required the Board to promulgate "rules and regulations to effectuate the purposes of 
this bylaw." The Board's Health Agent, Robert Ethier, established a subcommittee to advise him 
on regulations to present to the Board.' The Subcommittee dissolved following the Town 
Meeting's repeal of the Nitrogen Net Zero Bylaw on April 26, 2011. 
According to the Town, the members of the Subcommittee were "not elected, appointed 
or voted to this Sub Committee by either the Board of Selectmen, Board of Health or any other 
governing body." Mr. Ethier formed the group, convened its meetings, and invited its 
' For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
participants, who varied from meeting to meeting. There was no set membership for the 
Subcommittee, and no quorum requirement for convening meetings. However, around January 
31, 2011, Town Counsel informed the Subcommittee that they were subject to the Open Meeting 
Law. From that point onward, the Subcommittee posted notice for and maintained minutes of its 
meetings (it had created agendas and minutes for some prior meetings). 
We find that the Subcommittee was not a public body because it was not a multiple-
member board empowered to act collectively.' The Subcommittee was not created by law or by 
a public body, but was organized informally by Mr. Ethier. Furthermore, the Subcommittee was 
not empowered to vote, there was no set membership, and no quorum requirement for holding 
meetings. See  OML 2012-20; OML 2011-42. 
Although it was not a public body, the Subcommittee posted notice for and created 
minutes of its meetings upon Town Counsel's recommendation. We applaud the Committee's 
efforts to provide opportunities for public involvement with its activities and to retain minutes 
and records of its meetings. 
We now consider this matter closed. Please contact this office if you have any questions 
or believe that any facts are inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
/ 94 ,2 Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Edward Pacewicz 
'For an analysis of what constitutes a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, see our determination at OML 
2010-1, which can be found at the Attorney General's website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  