===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
June 27, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 86  
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Brian W. Burke, Esq. 
Deputy General Counsel - Amherst 
University of Massachusetts 
100 Venture Way, 3rd Floor  
Hadley, MA 01035 
 
bwburke@umass.edu 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Burke: 
 
This office received a complaint from Jonathan Gerhardson on November 29, 2024, 
alleging that the University of Massachusetts Amherst Demonstration Task Force (the “Task 
Force”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally 
filed with the Task Force on October 24,
1 and you responded on behalf of the Task Force by 
letter dated December 13, following an inquiry from our office.  In his complaint, Mr. 
Gerhardson alleges that the Task Force violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to provide 
meeting minutes upon request and by deliberating outside a posted meeting via serial 
communication online.  Implicit in the complaint is an assertion that the Task Force was a public 
body subject to the Open Meeting Law, which the Task Force disputes.   
 
We appreciate the parties’ patience while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Task Force was not a public body, as defined by the Open Meeting Law, 
and therefore did not violate the Law in the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint, the Task Force’s response, and the complainant’s request for 
further review.  We also reviewed the “Report of the Campus Demonstration Policy Task Force 
University of Massachusetts Amherst,” dated August 30.  We reviewed the report of the 
Supervisor of Records, SPR 24/2920, dated November 6, issued to Christine M. Wilda, 
Associate Chancellor for Compliance at University of Massachusetts Amherst.  We reviewed the 
notices and minutes of the meetings of the University of Massachusetts (“UMass” or the 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2024. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
“University”) Board of Trustees of June 7 and September 19, and documents available at 
https://www.umass.edu/news/key-issues/war-gaza, including “Letters to C ampus” from 
Chancellor Javier Reyes, dated May 8, June 17, and September 4, an email from Chancellor 
Reyes to the UMass community dated January 16, 2025, a “May 7, 2024 Encampment 
Timeline,” and the report of an external review entitled “Prince Lobel’s Report on Review of 
University of Massachusetts Amherst Response to Spring 2024 Gaza Protest Encampments,” 
dated January 13, 2025.   We reviewed an email from the UMass Faculty Senate Office to the 
complainant, dated October 24, attaching Faculty Senate council committee minutes.  We 
reviewed UMass policies, as referenced in the body of this letter.  Finally, I communicated with 
you and with the complainant via email.   
  
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  Like many college campuses, UMass Amherst was the site 
of demonstrations during the 2023-2024 academic year, stemming from events in the Middle 
East.  On April 29, demonstrators established an encampment, including tents, on campus 
property and made certain demands of the University.  Construction of the encampment violated 
UMass Amherst Regulations for Use of Property, Trustee Doc. T90-079 (the “Land Use 
Policy”), which required pre-authorization of any structures.  Chancellor Reyes decided on April 
29 that the encampment would not be allowed to remain on University property; protesters who 
refused to remove encampment structures after several explicit warnings would be subject to 
arrest for criminal trespass.  Among the reasons for Chancellor Reyes’s decision was his concern 
that tolerance of an encampment established in violation of the Land Use Policy would set an 
undesirable precedent in the event of future protests.  Following discussions with University 
administration, demonstrators voluntarily removed the encampment on April 30.   
  
At noon on May 7, demonstrators were observed unloading pallets onto the South Lawn 
of the UMass Amherst campus, again in violation of the University’s Land Use Policy, to 
construct a second encampment.  After the demonstrators ignored a notification that structures 
and tents were not allowed on the South Lawn, staff of the Demonstration Response and Safety 
Team (“DRST”) entered the newly established encampment and asked them to disassemble a 
wooden barrier being constructed.  DRST issued two additional warnings that day.  As part of 
the third warning, demonstrators were advised of steps the University was taking in response to 
their demands and were further told that although they had the right to express their views, “you 
do not have a right to place structures outside the limits of the Land Use Policy.  You can 
demonstrate in this space but you must dismantle and remove your tents and structures now.”  
The demonstrators, which included individuals who were not students or staff of UMass, did not 
remove the tents and structures following this third and final warning.  That night, and into the 
early morning hours of May 8, the UMass Police Department, assisted by the Massachusetts 
State Police and other agencies, cleared the encampment and arrested 132 people, including 70 
UMass Amherst students and six members of the UMass Amherst faculty.   
 
In the weeks that followed, Chancellor Reyes met with representatives of the Student 
Government Association (“SGA”), the Graduate Student Senate (“GSS”), and the Faculty Senate 
Rules Committee (“FSRC”).  According to Chancellor Reyes, the meetings “focused on the need 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
for the university to review campus policies that intersect with student activism and make 
recommendations for potential improvements to those policies.” 
 
On June 17, Chancellor Reyes announced the establishment of the Task Force.  It was his 
decision to create the group, which was formed to review UMass policies and procedures and to 
“make recommendations to the appropriate university governing bodies.”  The Task Force was 
composed of 17 members, six of whom were staff members appointed by the Chancellor.  The 
remaining members were appointed by the SGA, GSS and FSRC.  The Task Force was charged 
with, among other things: 
 
• reviewing demonstration-related policies and guidelines, including the Land Use 
Policy and making recommendations to the appropriate University governing bodies;  
• making recommendations regarding methods of demonstration-related intervention, 
including the composition and deployment of the DRST; and 
• making recommendations on how to increase awareness of University policies and 
First Amendment protections as they apply to on-campus demonstrations. 
 
The Task Force met on six occasions.  At its first meeting, it created two subcommittees, 
one focusing on policy review and the other focusing on the DRST.  The subcommittees met ten 
times.  Additionally, according to the Task Force, “[s]ignificant asynchronous discussion and 
document review was also completed via a shared Teams channel.”  On August 30, the Task 
Force issued a report to the Student Affairs and University Life Council (“SAUL”).  The report 
made multiple recommendations, including but not limited to: 
 
• removing ambiguities in the Land Use Policy, by defining structures with reference to 
existing language from state law; 
• creating an advisory council to strengthen the work of the DRST; and 
• building up a mediation infrastructure to aid in the de-escalation of potential conflict. 
 
In his message to the UMass community announcing the release of the Task Force’s 
report, Chancellor Reyes stated that “[o]ver the next several weeks, these recommendations, 
which I fully endorse, will move through the governing bodies of the university.”   
 
SAUL is a council of the Faculty Senate which reviews and advises on policies 
concerning non-academic student activities and university life, including legal rights, picketing, 
and free speech.  The Land Use Policy provides that “[a]ny member of the campus community 
may present proposals for revision, with supporting arguments” to SAUL and that SAUL “may 
advise the Chancellor regarding modifications and application of these regulations.”  Finally, the 
Land Use Policy provides that modification or amendment requires the approval of the Board of 
Trustees. 
 
Upon receipt of the Task Force’s report and the Task Force’s proposed revisions of the 
Land Use Policy, picketing code, and implementation guidelines for the Land Use Policy, SAUL 
submitted revisions of the Land Use Policy and the picketing code, in an advisory capacity, to 
the Amherst campus administration, of which Chancellor Reyes is a member.  The Chancellor 
then requested that the Committee on Administration and Finance advance the proposed 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
revisions of the Land Use Policy to the Board of Trustees.  Among its other responsibilities, the 
Committee on Administration and Finance is tasked with making recommendations to the full 
Board of Trustees on matters concerning the “management and control” of University property.  
At its meeting on December 17, the Committee on Administration and Finance voted to place the 
revisions to the Land Use Policy on the consent agenda for a meeting of the full Board of 
Trustees on December 18.
2  The Board of Trustees approved the amendments to the Land Use 
Policy on December 18.  Unlike the Land Use Policy, which may be amended only by the Board 
of Trustees, the picketing code is an administrative policy and may be amended by a University 
official.  Per the recommendations of the Task Force, Chancellor Reyes also created an Advisory 
Board to the DRST on October 29.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to a public body, which is defined, in relevant part, 
as “
a multiple member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or 
legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, 
appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  
The Open Meeting Law definition of a subcommittee includes “any multiple-member body 
created to advise or make recommendations to a public body.”  Id.   
 
For a multiple-member entity to be deemed a public body subject to the Open Meeting 
Law, it must satisfy three factors: 
 
1. The entity must be “within” government and not excluded from the definition of “public 
body”; 
2. The entity must be a “body” empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a “public purpose.” 
 
See OML 2024-118; 2017-120; OML 2010-1.
3  
 
In its response to the complaint, the University does not argue that the Task Force or its 
subcommittees fail to meet any of the above three factors.  (Indeed, the response acknowledges 
that the UMass Board of Trustees is subject to the Open Meeting Law.)  Rather, the University 
argues that the Task Force falls within a judicially created exception to the Open Meeting Law’s 
definition of “public body,” established in Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 
232 (1991).  Under the Connelly exception, where an individual public official, who themself is 
not subject to the Open Meeting Law, creates a committee to advise them on a decision that they 
have the sole authority to make, that committee is not subject to the Open Meeting Law.  Id., at 
235.  See also, e.g., OML 2019-71 (working group fit within Connelly exception where it only 
possessed authority to make recommendations to the Mayor); OML 2012-65 (University of 
Massachusetts Amherst Student Health Insurance Plan Committee was not a public body as it 
 
2 “By a vote of a majority of Committee members present at any Committee meeting, action item(s) may be placed 
on a consent agenda for regular Board meetings.”  University of Massachusetts Board of Trustees By-laws, Doc. 
T91-100, 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
was created by UMass Vice-Chancellor for Student Affairs to advise her on a decision she had 
the sole authority to make). 
 
We find that the Connelly exception applies to t he Task Force.  Chancellor Reyes created 
the Task Force to review, and recommend changes to, UMass policies and procedures.  Although 
the Task Force submitted its report and recommended policy revisions to SAUL, a Faculty 
Senate council, SAUL then submitted them to the UMass Amherst administration.  Upon receipt, 
Chancellor Reyes requested, through the Committee on Administration and Finance, that the 
Board of Trustees adopt the recommended amendments, which it did.  The University has 
explained in response to the complaint that the Land Use Policy is specific to the Amherst 
campus and that, as a result, it was the Chancellor who had the authority to recommend changes 
to that policy.  Rules of University governance,
4 as interpreted by the University, require that any 
campus request to amend policy necessarily flows through the Chancellor as the chief academic 
and executive officer of the campus.5  Chancellor Reyes recommended changes to the Land Use 
Policy, as he had the authority to do, based on the recommendations of the Task Force.  Because 
the Task Force and its subcommittees fall within the Connelly exception, they were not public 
bodies. 
 
  
 
4 University of Massachusetts Board of Trustees Statement of University Governance , Doc. T73-098. 
5 A Board Policy is defined by three criteria, including its “broad application throughout the University.”  See 
University of Massachusetts Policy for Creating and Establishing Board Policy, Doc. T13 -093.  By contrast, 
“[c]ampus policies are not governed by the Board and apply only to a specific campus.”  Id.  UMass policy also 
provides that “[t]he President’s Council (President, Executive & Senior Vice Presidents, and Chancellors) shall be 
responsible for the review of new or revised Board Policies and for the review of Board Policies to be rescinded.  
The President’s Council will recommend policies for approval by the Board.”  In response to this complaint,  the 
University has maintained that Chancellor Reyes, not the President’s Council, recommended that the Board amend 
the Land Use Policy because the Land Use Policy applies only to the Amherst campus, of which the Chancellor is 
the chief academic and executive officer.  It is beyond our purview to attempt to reconcile the existence of campus-
specific Board policies with language that “[c]ampus policies are not governed by the Board.”  We note, however, 
that there are numerous Board policies that, like the Land Use Policy, are campus specific.  For example, there exist 
four separate intellectual property Board policies for different campuses, as well as three different Board policies on 
faculty consulting and outside activities for different campuses. 
 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Task Force and its subcommittees were not 
public bodies, and therefore they did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  We now consider the 
complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address 
any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Task Force.  Please feel free to 
contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Jonathan Gerhardson (via email: ) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
 
