===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
December 8, 2021 
 
OML 2021 - 182 
 
 
Francesse Canty, Esq. 
Director of Human Resources 
Everett School Committee 
337 Broadway 
Everett, MA 02149 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Canty: 
 
This determination addresses two complaints from Steven Fitzgerald alleging that the 
Everett School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 In total, Mr. Fitzgerald has filed approximately 80 separate Open Meeting Law 
complaints with public bodies in Everett over the past year. The complaints addressed herein are 
dated May 24 and July 20.2 Together the complaints allege that 1) the Committee failed to 
respond to a request for “communication/documents/exhibit submitted to the School Committee 
Members at the May 11, 2021 Public Hearing Meeting”; and 2) the notice for the Committee’s 
July 19 meeting stated that the public could attend the meeting in person, but the Committee’s 
website indicated that the public could not attend Committee meetings in person.3   
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the Open Meeting Law complaints, the Committee’s responses to the complaints, 
and the requests for further review. We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.   
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 
2 Because of the volume of complaints that Mr. Fitzgerald has filed with the Everett School Committee and other 
public bodies in Everett, many on the same date and/or raising similar allegations, we have numbered the complaints 
for tracking purposes. This determination addresses complaints 45 and 63. 
3 One member of the Committee is an employee of the Attorney General’s Office. The complaints contain no 
allegations that are specific to the actions of that individual, and that individual played no role in thi s office’s 
consideration of the complaints.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
As an initial matter, we decline to review the May 24 complaint as it does not allege a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. Most requests for government documents are governed by 
the Public Records Law. See 950 C.M.R. 32.06(2)(e). Although the Open Meeting Law also 
provides a mechanism for requesting meeting minutes, it does not govern a public body’s 
response to a request for records other than meeting minutes, such as documents and exhibits 
used at a meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 22; OML Declination 7-16-20 (Greater Lowell Technical 
School Committee); OML Declination 8-9-13 (Southwick Board of Selectmen). Therefore, a 
failure to timely respond to requests for documents other than minutes may implicate the Public 
Records Law, but not the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Next, the City of Everett has adopted its municipal website, cityofeverett.com, as its 
official notice posting location. A municipality may only have one official notice posting 
location and if it has adopted its website as its notice posting location, then that is the official 
location for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b)(3) & (c). We look to the 
official notice posting location to determine whether a public body has complied with the Law. 
See OML 2021-18. The complaint does not allege that the official notice for the Committee’s 
July 19 meeting provided inaccurate information with respect to how the public could access the 
meeting. Instead, the complaint alleges that the Committee’s own website contained an 
inaccurate or outdated statement that meetings continued to be physically closed to the public. 
As the official notice for the Committee’s July 19 meeting, as posted to the City’s website, 
clearly indicated that the public could access the meeting remotely or in person, and the meeting 
in fact was accessible in those ways, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. Nonetheless, if meeting information is posted in multiple locations, we urge public 
bodies to ensure that they do not post conflicting or confusing information.  
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
  
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Steven Fitzgerald (via e-mail:  
 Frank Parker, Chair, Everett School Committee (via e-mail: ) 
 Priya Tahiliani, Superintendent, Everett Public Schools (via e-mail: 
) 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 