===PAGE 1===
~
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNY GENERAL
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108
MARTHA COAKLEY
ATIORNEY GENERAL
(617) 727.2200
(617) 727-4765 TrY
www.mass.gov/ago
June 20, 2011
OML 2011 - 26
Thomas Fay
Chair
Wayland Board of Selectmen
41 Cochituate Road
Wayland, MA 01778
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Chair Fay,
, This office received a complaint from Ms. Linda Segal, dated October 7, 2010,
alleging violations ofthe Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by the Wayland
Board of Selectmen (the "Board"). Specifcally, the complaint alleges that the Board
violated the Open Meeting Law when a "quorum of the Wayland Board of Selectmen
gathered in the Selectmen's Meeting Room at 6:53 p.m. on Thursday, July 8, 201Q and
engaged in substantive communication on public business within the Board's jurisdiction
but outside of a posted meeting." The complaint was originally filed with the Board on
August 5, 2010. The Board's response to the complaint was received by this offce on
August 17,2010.
We note that, in addition to the complaint fied by Ms. Segal, our office received
several phone calls and emails from Wayland citizens concerned about the events that
occurred prior to the Board's July 8,2010 meeting.
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by engaging in
deliberation prior to the commencement of its July 8, 2010 meeting. We believe this to
be an intentional violation of the Open Meeting Law, and wil refer this matter to a
hearing pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07(3) to determine whether the violation was intentional
and if the Board should be assessed a fine.
In making this determination, we reviewed the August 5, 2010 complaint fied
with Board, the August 17,2010 response by the Board, and the October 7, 2010
1
===PAGE 2===
complaint fied, with our offce. We reviewed emails provided to our offce by the Board
in response to our requests dated October 8, 2010 and October 14,2010. We ah¡o
reviewed the video recording of the July 8, 2010 meeting. We reviewed the minutes of
the Board meetings held on June 21, June 28, July 8, and August 16,2010. We reviewed
Ms. Segal's July 20,2010 letter to the Board, and Town Administrator Fi:ed Turkington's
July 28,2010 email response. We reviewed the Certificates of Receipt of Open Meeting
Law Materials signed by the Board members. Finally, we interviewed by phone the four
members of the Board who participated in the discussion prior to the meeting on July 8,
2010. We appreciate the full cooperation of the members of the Board in responding to
our requests for documentation and in speaking with our offce over the phone.
FACTS
The Wayland Board of Selectmen has the authority to appoint individuals to
various boards and commissions throughout the town. The Board typically invites
candidates for appointment to town commissions to Board meetings for interviews.
Following the interviews, the Board members discuss the candidates and vote to fill the
open positions. On July 8, 2010, the Board met to consider applicants for positions on a
number of town boards, including the Conservation Commission and the Historical
District Commission (the "HDC").
The Board had interviewed candidates for both commissions at its June 21, 2010
and lune 28, 2010 meetings. In interviews by this offce with the Board members,
several members stated that they were looking for new appointees with a fresh
perspective, particularly on the HOC. The Board members believed that the HOC had
taken steps to oppose a controversial development project at Town Center. The Board
members had publicly expressed a desire to appoint members to the HOC who would be
more amenable to the Town Center project. At its June 2ist meeting, the Board
interviewed HDC candidates Margery Baston, Diana Warren, Alice Boelter, Kathie
Steinberg and Kevin Crowley. Diana Warren and Alice Boelter were candidates for
reappointment. At its June 28,2010 meeting, the Board interviewed candidate Chris.
Hagger for reappointment to the HDC.
The Board scheduled a regular meeting on July 8, 2010 at 7:00 p.m. to, among
other things, discuss and appoint candidates to the Conservation Commission and the
HDC. The meeting was broadcast live by the Wayland cable access television station,
WayCam. WayCam was broadcasting live at around 6:53 p.m., when members of the
Board arrived and began chatting amongst themselves. Four of the five Board members
were present, with Selectman Joseph Nolan arriving late to the meeting. From the tape
provided by the complainant, it does not appear that the Board members were aware they
were being recorded prior to the start of the meeting: The Board members were talking
quietly, and not everything they said was audible on the broadcast. A relevant transcript
of what occurred appears below, as prepared by the complainant and confirmed by our
review of the tape:
Selectwoman Susan Pope: So, who was the other? Kathie?
Selectman John Bladon: Yes.
2
===PAGE 3===
Selectman Thomas Fay: Kathie Steinberg, Kevin, Marge...
Selectwoman Pope: . ..Boelter. . .
Selectman Fay: Boelter...Boelter's off
Selectman Steve Correia then pulls out a sheet of paper from his briefcase and the
four members gather around it.
Selectman Correia: So... we have Margery, Chris, Kevin, Kathie. So...taking her
off and her off. You're saying you don't want...
Selectman Fay: No, I'm sorry, I thought Chris had to be off. We had to make a
choice.... '
Selectwoman Pope: No.
Selectman COl1eia: No, we didn't get... No, originally you're right. We had her
person, George. Originally, right, but George said "no."
At about 6:56 p.m. the WayCam broadcast switched to public service
announcements, and did not return to the live meeting until about 6:59 p.m., when
members of the public were in the room and the Selectmen were preparing to convene the
meeting.
In interviews with the Board members present for this exchange, all the members
insist that this was not a planned discussion, and that it was a brief and informal
discussion of the candidates for the HDC. Each member interviewed stated that they had
a11ived at the meeting aheady knowing who they planed to vote for. The discussion
started with questions about how many spots they had to fill, and who were the
candidates under consideration. According to the Board members, the document that
Selectman Correia pulled out of his briefcase that the selectmen reviewed during the
discussion was a document listing all the candidates' names, and did not contain
information regarding preferences. Rather, it was a reference sheet of the candidates
under consideration that night. According to Selectman Fayl, the conversation began
because of confusion about the requirements for appointments to the HDCj such as the
statutory requirement that an architect serve on the HDC. '
It is not clear what occurred during the four minutes that WayCAM ceased
broadcasting. According to Selectman Fay, there was some discussion about the
statutory requirements for HDC appointments. Selectwoman Pope said there may have
been some further discussion of candidates, and that she may have said that she wanted to
appoint a new candidate, Kathie Steinberg.
Later in the night, during the open meeting, the Board discussed the appointments
for members of the HDC and the Conservation Commission. Each candidate who was
appointed was first nominated by a member of the Board, and there was a brief
discussion of the merits of each candidate before a vote for appointment. For the HDC,
the Board nominated and appointed Kevin Crowley, Margery Baston, Kathie Steinberg,
and Chris Hagger. There was no discussion of the two remainÍng candidates, Diana
i For the purposes of this determination, we wil refer to you in the third persoii.
3
===PAGE 4===
Warren and Alice Boelter. Diana Warren was a member of the HDC applying for
reappointment, and Alice Boelter was an alternate member of the HDC, applying for
reappointment. All appointments passed unanimously. In a similar manner, the Board
appointed Roger Blackman, Larry Kiernan, Markey Burke, and Ted Harding to the
Conservation Commission. All candidates were approved unanimously. There was no
discussion of candidate Betty Salzburg.
Selectman John Bladon stated in a phone intervew that he had come to the
meeting with a different opinion of who to support for at least one of the candidates for
HDC. He said he was surprised when Selectman Correia listed a different candidate in
the pre-meeting discussion. Selectman Bladon ended up supporting the candidate
nominated by Selectman Fay because he did not feel strongly about the choice between
the two candidates.
After viewing a home recording of the broadcast, complainant Linda Segal wrote
a letter on July 20, 2010 to the Board stating that, "a quorum of the Board of Selectmen
gathered in the Selectmen's Meeting Room prior to the 7 p.m. posted start time for the
public meeting and engaged in a prolonged conversation apparently on public business
within the Board's jurisdiction." The letter then requested the Board to "provide a full,
fair, and detailed written explanation of the matters that were discussed by Board
members prior to opening the public meeting," In a July 28, 2010 email to Ms. Segal in
response to her July 20,2010 letter, Town Administrator Fred Turkington stated that the
Board discussed her request at its July 26, 2010 meeting, and responded that:
None of the selectmen recall "a prolonged conversation" on Town business that
you allege to have occurred prior to the commencement ofthe July 8, 2010
se1ectmen' s 'meeting. As you know from your regular attendance at our meetings,
as members arrive, they engage in small talk. Most recall asking about their
colleague's Independence Day weekend activities. Some recall asking and
receiving a reply to general questions as to which boards citizens would be
appointed that evening (i.e. Planning Board, Conservation, HOC, ZBA, etc.) and
the scheduled date for considering the appointment of the associate member of the
Planning Board given that the only applicant was unavailable to attend that
evening.
None recall at precisely what point you were present at the meeting, and it is
impossible to determine from your letter whether you observed the alleged
conversation first~hand or whether it was relayed to you by someone watching the
meeting at home on WayCAM. So we reviewed the video-on-demand tape of the
meeting on WayCAM in hopes of determining what conversation you reference.
It begins when Mr. Con'eia called the meeting to order a few moments after 7:00
p.m., so there does not appear to be audio or visual evidence of any conversation
you have referenced. Do you have such evidence that we can review in order to
better understand and respond to your request?
4
===PAGE 5===
.. . Absent further explanation from you as to the substance of the alleged
prolonged conversation you reference, we do not believe a "meeting" as defined
by law was conducted prior to the posted selectmen's meeting on July 8, 2010.
Following this email, Ms. Segal provided the Board with her copy of the video of
the meeting, which included the pre-meeting discussion. The video available on the
WayCAM website commenced at the start of the meeting, and did not include the pre-
meeting discussion. Ms. Segal then fied her Open Meeting Law complaint on August 5,
2010. The Board discussed the complaint at its August 16,2010 meeting. The minutes
of that meeting state that:
(Town Counsel Mark) Lanza saw the video recording of the event, and he
observed four selectmen discussing potential appointees to the Historic District
Commission. He said there is enough doubt as to whether a quorum existed that
he recommends the Board take remedial action to alleviate any issues that may
arise. He said the Board interviewed appointees in public session, there was a
discussion and a vote in public session, and resumes were previously distributed
and reviewed. He suggested that, in the interest of transparency, the conversation
alleged on July 8 be repeated now in a public session, with minutes taken in a
properly posted public meeting. He said the Board should then submit a notice to
the Attoi11ey General that remedial action was taken, with a request that the
Attorney General take no further action. The Board recreated the conversation,
prior to the opening of the meeting of July 8, 2010, by reading a copy of the full
transcript which is attached and made part of this record.
(Selectman) C011eia said. . . it is clear that the four Board members were mistaken
in referring to some of the candidates who were being considered for appointment
that evening. The comments made during a less than five minute period p1'or to
the formal openig of the July 8th Board of Selectmen meeting should not have
occurred until the start of the meeting.
In the Board's August 17, 2010 response to the complaint, the Board writes that
"it is apparent that a quorum of the Board briefly discussed potential appointees to fill
vacancies on the Historic District Commission ("HDC"). In order to remedy what it
viewed as a "technical transgression," the Board repeated its discussion of the potential
appointees to the HDC in open session at a duly posted meeting of the Board held on
August 16,2010." The Board fuher states that, "(e)ven though it may not have been
necessary, the Board has taken this remedial action as a cautionary measure and for
transparency purposes. . . the vacancies on the HDC were filled by a vote of the Board in
open session during its July 8,2010 meeting. The vote to make the appointments was
preceded by a discussion of the (sic) each of the appointees. Therefore, any techncal
violation of the law that may have occurred by the July 8, 201 0 pre-meeting discussion of
the candidates for appointment to the HDC was cured by the discussion and vote during
the Board's July 8, 2010 meeting."
In reviewing emails provided by the Board and interviewing the Board members,
we find no evidence of any additional discussion betweèn a quorum of the Board
5
===PAGE 6===
members regarding the candidates, aside from the discussion caught on tape on July 8,
2010 at 6:53 p.m.
DISCUSSION
A. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Deliberating on a Slate of
Candidates for Appointment Prior to a Public Meeting
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy
sU110unding deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v.
School Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that
meetings of a public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless
an executive session is convened. See G,L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Open Meeting
Law defines a "meeting" as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter
within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined as "an
oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between
or among a quorum of a public body on any public busincss within its jurisdiction;
provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of a meeting
agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting or the
distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no
opinion of a member is expressed." Id.
The Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it discussed candidates for the
HDC outside of an open session. Any communication between or among a quorum of
the Board with respect to a matter within the Board's jurisdiction is a deliberation. See
G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Here, the members of the Board discussed their preferences for
candidates for the HDC before the public portion of the meeting. They were not aware
that their conversation was being broadcast live on Wayland local cable television. That
taped discussion, however, demonstrates that the Board members arrived at a collective
decision on a slate of candidates. Selectman Fay specifically named "Kathie Steinberg,
Kevin, Marge." Selectwoman Pope then asked about Alice Boelter. Fay replied
"Boelter's off," apparently to general agreement. Selectman Correia then stated "we
have Margery, Chris, Kevin, Kathie. So... taking her off and her off." The candidates
appointed to the HDC that night were Margery Baston, Chris Hagger, Kevin Crowley,
and Kathie Steinberg. The candidates not appointed were Diana Warren and Alice
Boelter. And the successful candidates all shared a "fresh perspective" on the Town
Center project. Thus, the Board members' pre-meeting discussion led to unanimous
approval of a slate of candidates, without a subsequent public discussion of the Board
members' preference for Town Center~friendly candidates. There was no discussion of
the candidates who were not chosen.
The Board contends that "any technical violation of the law that may have
occul1'ed by the July 8, 2010 pre-meeting discussion of the candidates for appointment to
the HDC was cured by the discussion and vote during the Board's July 8, 2010 meeting."
There are two flaws in the Board's contention. First, this was not a "technical" violation
of the Open Meeting Law. The Board decided which candidates would represent the
6
===PAGE 7===
public on two separate commissions, and it made that decision out of the public eye. This
type of violation strikes at the heart of the Open Meeting Law.
Second, to cure a violation of the Open Meeting Law, a public body must take
independent, deliberative action, and not merely engage in a ceremonial acceptance and
perfunctory ratification of a secret decision. See Pearson v. Board of Selectmen of
Longmeadow, 49 Mass.App.Ct. 119, 125, (2000) (citing Tolar v. School Bd. of Liberty 
County, 398 So.2d 427, 429 (Fla.1981)). Here, the Board did not take any action during
the July 8, 2010 open meeting to discuss which candidates were not chosen as they had
done in the pre-meeting discussion.
Additionally, the Board was unable or unwiling to acknowledge that the
discussion occurred in its July 28,2010 response to the complainant's letter, just three
weeks after the July 8, 2010 meeting. The Board's initial response to the complainant's
letter suggested that the discussion did not involve an agreement on a slate of candidates,
but that Board members "recall asking and receiving a reply to general questions as to
which boards citizens would be appointed that evening." The letter further states that
"(aJbsent fuithel' explanation from you as to the substance of the alleged prolonged
conversation you reference, we do not believe a 'meeting' as defined by law was
conducted prior to the posted selectmen's meeting on July 8,2010." Essentially, the
Board was unwiling to aclmowledge a violation of the law until confronted with the
incontrovertible evidence of the video recording.
We do not find that any improper deliberation occurred prior to July 8, 2010, as
has been alleged by the complainant, nor do we find that the Board members pla11ed to
an-ive early that night to discuss the candidates fOl' appointment. We also did not find
evidence that the Board discussed appointments for the Conservation Commission prior
to the July 8, 2010 open session, as is alleged in the complaint.
B. The Board's Violation of the Open Meeting Law was Intentional
The Attorney General's Open Meetings regulations define "intentional violation"
as an "act or omission by a public body, 01' a member of a public body, that knowingly
violates" the Open Meeting Law_ 940 CMR 29.02. Here, the record - particularly the
videotape - amply suppoits the conclusion that the Board members' violation was
intentionaL.
To begin with, the Open Meeting Law requires that, within two weeks of
qualification for offce, each Board member certify that they have received of a copy of
the law as well as relevant regulations and educational materials prepared by the Attorney
General. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g). That ceitification "shall be evidence that the member of
a public body has read and understands the requirement of the open meeting law and the
consequences of violating it." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g). We note that on July 8, 2010 - the
very day of this violation - the Wayland Town Clerk distributed a memorandum to the
Board members attaching a letter regarding the changes in the Open Meeting Law, as
well as the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Guide and the Certificate of Receipt
of Open Meeting Law Materials. Thus, each of the Board members who participated in:
7
===PAGE 8===
the discussion had just been reminded of their obligations under the law, as required by
the Attorney General's regulatioiis,2 and had to be aware of their obligation to refrain
from discussing Board business outside of a public meeting.
Moreover, each of the participating members knew that the Board was going to
vote on the appointment of HDC members that night, and they knew at the time the
deliberation occurred that the meeting was not yet open to the public. Nonetheless, they
came to an agreement on the slate of candidates they would approve - in hushed voices
and in an empty room - outside of public view. This is not a mere technical violation,
but a violation of a bedrock principle of government transparency. While the Board
members may not have arived on the evening of July 8th with the intention of discussing
candidates for appointment prior to the public meeting, they should have been aware of
their obligation under the Open Meeting Law to refrain from such discussion. None of
the members present stopped the discussion or chose to leave. Thus, we conclude that
the Board intentionally agreed on a slate of candidates for appointment, outside the view
of the public, in violation of the Open Meeting Law. Given this record, a hearing is
appropriate to determine whether the Board's intentional violation should be subject to a
fine.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating on a slate
of candidates for appointment prior to a public meeting. Because we believe this
violation was intentional, we refer this matter for a hearing pursuant to 940 CMR
29.07(3), and recommend that the Board be assessed a fine of $1,000 pursuant to G.L. c.
30A, § 23(c) ("Upon the finding of a violation, the attorney general may issue an order to
. . . impose a civil penalty upon the public body of not more than $1,000 for each
intentional violation,,).3 We invite counsel for the Board to contact this office to discuss
the hearing process. We also order the Board to take the following remedial actions:
1. Immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A,
§§18-25; and
2. Attendance at a training on the Open Meeting Law and certification to this
offce that every member of the Board has attended that training. The trainings
are to be conducted by an attorney or organization familar with the
requirements of the Law and approved by this Office. This training is ordered
2 We note that Selectman 
Fay signed the Certificate of Receipt of Open Meeting Law Materials on July 23,
2010; Selectman Bladon on August 23, 2010. Selectmen Nolan and Correia signed an acknowledgement
under the prior Open Meeting Law statute in April 2008. Selectwoman Pope signed an acknowledgement
under the prior Open Meeting Law statue in April 2009. There is no current Certificate of Receipt of Open
Meeting Law Materials on fie for Selectmen Nolan, CorJ'eia, and Pope.
3 In, a recent decision, the Hampshire Superior Couit fined the South Hadley School Committee $5,000 for
intentional violations of the Open Meeting Law. Gelinas v. Town of South Hadley, C.A. No. 10-129,
(Mass. Superior Couit, fied May 23,2011).
8
===PAGE 9===
in addition to any future remedial actions ordered as the result of a hearing.
If you have any questions regarding this decision, please do not hesitate to contact
me at the number below.
Sincerel
g ~./,;/' ~.-'
J' nathan Sclarsic
//Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
Ph: 617-963-2045
cc: Linda Segal
Mark Lanza, Wayland Town Counsel
9