===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
May 16, 2019 
OML 2019-48
Karen Murphy 
Town Administrator 
11 South Street 
Westminster, MA 01473
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Ms. Murphy:
This office received a complaint from Harry Redkey on December 3, alleging that the 
Westminster Police Chief Screening Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on October 
26 and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated November 19, following an 
extension of time granted by our office. The complaint alleges that the Committee entered into 
executive session for an improper purpose on October 23.
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
improperly discussing certain matters in executive session. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint 
filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notice and open and 
executive session minutes of the Committee’s October 23 meeting, as well as the open and 
executive session minutes of the Committee’s November 1 meeting. Finally, we spoke with 
Attorney Janelle Austin, legal counsel for the Committee, by telephone on December 12, and 
with the complainant by telephone on December 13.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a nine-member public body appointed by 
the Board of Selectmen to assist in the selection of a new Police Chief. The complainant is a 
member of the Committee.
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.

===PAGE 2===
On October 17 around noon, the complainant sent an email to all Committee members 
suggesting that members’ individual scoring data of the police chief applicants should be shared 
with and made available to all members. He questioned the semi-finalist selection process and 
stated that the Committee should discuss in detail why each member scored an applicant a 
certain way.2
On October 17 around 4 P.M., the Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
October 23 at 5:30 P.M. The notice listed an executive session as follows: “Executive Session 
(MGL Ch. 30A, s. 21(8) - To consider applicants for employment by a preliminary screening 
committee).”
The October 23 meeting was held as planned. Chair Stephen Hemman3 called the 
meeting to order at 5:30 P.M. and a Committee member moved to enter into executive session 
“to consider applicants for employment by a preliminary screening committee.” The Committee 
then approved a unanimous vote by roll call to convene in executive session. During the 
executive session, the Committee discussed the complainant’s October 17 email with respect to 
the semi-finalist selection process. Members reviewed the candidates’ applications and their 
own scoring sheets. The complainant suggested that certain Committee members communicated 
with candidates and that this was a conflict of interest. He left the meeting at 6:05 P.M. after 
discussions became contentious. Committee members then decided that their scores should be 
audited. The Committee adjourned after reconvening in open session at 6:07 P.M.
During the November 1 meeting, the complainant again asked whether Committee 
members had communicated with any candidates, which the complainant asserted could create 
conflicts of interest. Committee members denied having any communications with candidates.
A Committee member then moved to enter into executive session to discuss the Open 
Meeting Law complaint filed by the complainant and “to consider applicants for employment by 
a preliminary screening committee.” The Committee approved a unanimous vote by roll call to 
convene in executive session. During the executive session, the Committee discussed the 
selection of candidates and the Open Meeting Law complaint filed by the complainant.
DISCUSSION
The complaint challenges the propriety of the Committee’s October 23 executive session 
discussions. The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in 
an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes, provided that the chair of the 
public body first announces in open session the purpose for the executive session, “stating all
2 We note that this email was sent to a quorum of the Committee and discussed matters that were still pending before 
it. The expression of an opinion of one public body member on matters within the body’s jurisdiction to a quorum 
of a public body is a deliberation, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 2016-104; OML 2015- 
33. Thus, the email contained an improper deliberation which should not have occurred outside of a posted meeting. 
We remind the complainant and the Committee of its obligations under the law with respect to deliberation. See 
G.L. c. 30A, §18.
3 Chair Hemman resigned from the Committee after the October 23 meeting. Member Lorraine Emerson was 
appointed Chair at the Committee’s November 1 meeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session 
was called.” G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist, v. Sch. 
Comm, of Wavland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for 
convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only notification given the 
public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would 
know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”).
Among the ten purposes for executive session is Purpose 8, which allows a public body 
to enter executive session to “consider or interview applicants for employment or appointment 
by a preliminary screening committee if the chair declares that an open meeting will have a 
detrimental effect in obtaining qualified applicants; provided, however, that this clause shall not 
apply to any meeting, including meetings of a preliminary screening committee, to consider and 
interview applicants who have passed a prior preliminary screening.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(8). 
The Law defines “preliminary screening” as “the initial stage of screening applicants conducted 
by a committee or subcommittee of a public body solely for the purpose of providing to the 
public body a list of those applicants qualified for further consideration or interview.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. Nothing in the statute suggests that “preliminary screening” is limited to a one-time- 
only review of an applicant’s credentials. See Gerstein v. Superintendent Search Screening 
Committee. 405 Mass 465, 471 (1989).
Here, the Committee convened in executive session on October 23 and discussed the 
semi-finalist selection process raised by the complainant in his October 17 email. Specifically, 
the discussion in executive session included the overall, general process that was utilized in 
selecting applicants, the complainant’s conflict of interest concerns, and a review of applications 
and the scoring sheets of each Committee member. The preliminary screening process may 
consist of several steps, such as consideration of written applications or resumes, selection of 
some for further consideration, and interviews for the purpose of narrowing the field of 
candidates to two or more finalists. See Gerstein, 405 Mass, at 471-73; Commonwealth v. Board 
of Selectmen of the Town of Westborough. 2006 WL 3292678 (Mass. Super. 2006). We find 
that the review of applications and scoring sheets was an appropriate discussion for executive 
session as the Committee was narrowing the field of applicants and choosing some for further 
consideration. See OML 2012-11,4
However, the Committee should not have discussed the general process of deciding how 
to select applicants or the complainant’s conflict of interest concerns in executive session. The 
Open Meeting Law allows public bodies to convene under Purpose 8 in order to undertake two 
activities, to “consider” or to “interview.” See OML 2016-105. Because any discussions 
concerning the overall selection process and conflict of interest issues did not specifically 
involve the consideration or interview of applicants, these discussions should not have occurred 
during the executive session and the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. We order the 
Committee to publicly release that portion of its October 23 executive session minutes where 
these discussions occurred. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f) (“The minutes of any executive session ... 
may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety ... as long as publication may
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer; provided, however, that the 
executive session was held in compliance with section 21”); OML 2014-42.
The complaint further alleges that the Committee failed to disclose possible conflicts of 
interest, failed to share scoring data with each other, and improperly changed scores. The 
Division of Open Government’s statutory authority concerns compliance only with the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Even if true, these allegations would not constitute a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. As such, we decline to review this portion of the complaint. 
See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners); OML 
Declination 5-21-12 (Hampden-Wilbraham Regional School Committee). We offer no opinion 
on whether any actions taken by the Committee could be a violation of the conflict of interest 
law, G.L. c. 268A, or some other law or regulation outside the scope of the Division’s review.
CONCLUSION
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by improperly discussing 
certain matters in executive session on October 23. We order immediate and future compliance 
with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the law. Additionally, we order the Committee to publicly release 
its October 23 executive session meeting minutes in accordance with the above guidance.5
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Harry Redkey
Janelle Austin, Esq., KP Law
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
5 The Committee must notify the Attorney General in writing of its compliance with the order to publicly disclose 
the executive session minutes within 30 days of receipt of this letter. See 940 C.M.R. 29.07(4).
4
