===PAGE 1===
1 
 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
March 30, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 58 
 
 
VIA EMAIL  
 
Barbara Heaphy 
Executive Director 
Lenox Housing Authority
 
 
 
 RE: Open M
eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Heaphy: 
 
This office received a complaint from Sonya Bykofsky on September 20, 2021,
1 alleging 
that the Board of the Lenox Housing Authority (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 10, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, on September 17, pursuant to an extension of time granted by 
our office.   Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board denied a videographer access to 
the Authority’s July 13 meeting, and that the Board moved the location of the July 13 meeting 
mid-meeting to an office that was too small to accommodate all those in attendance.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Law.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Authority’s response, and the 
request for further review, which included a supplemental response from the Complainant.  We 
also reviewed the notice and minutes for the Board’s July 13 meeting; corresponded with the 
Housing Authority’s Executive Director
2 by phone and email; and emailed with the 
Complainant.  
 
 
 
 
1 All dates in this determination are in 2021, unless otherwise stated.  
2 For clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  During the summer of 2021, the Authority was considering 
a proposal to place a cell antenna atop the Curtis, a housing complex in Lenox; the proposal 
generated much public interest and opposition.  The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held 
at 4:30 PM on July 13 at the Curtis.  The notice included, among other items, the following 
topics: “1. Tenant forum – Trilby Miller: questions about the cell antenna” and “5. Old Business: 
. . . Town of Lenox: Curtis cell antenna lease agreement.”   
 
Approximately half an hour before the July 13 meeting was scheduled to begin, a 
videographer arrived at the Curtis to film the meeting.  The videographer stopped by the 
Executive Director’s office in the Curtis to introduce himself; two Board members
3 and the 
Executive Director were speaking at the time.  After introducing himself and stating that he 
planned to record the meeting, the videographer was directed to the Community Room where the 
meeting was to take place.  A door leading to the Community Room was locked and two 
unidentified individuals, who were neither Board members nor Housing Authority staff, told the 
videographer that the meeting was not public.  The videographer then left without returning to 
the Executive Director’s office to request access to the Community Room. 
 
The meeting took place as scheduled with approximately 50 people in attendance.  At the 
start of the meeting, the Vice Chairman announced that the meeting was a regular meeting of the 
Board and not an open forum; one tenant had requested in advance to speak.  The Board heard 
from the tenant, who voiced concerns about the health impacts of the proposed cell antenna on 
the vulnerable residents of the Curtis as well as objections of other town residents.  The Board 
members discussed the antenna proposal, with each Board member stating his or her view on the 
matter, and heard from several other individuals, including a consultant for the Housing 
Authority who answered questions from tenants about the antenna.   
 
Following the Board’s discussion of the antenna proposal, the Board attempted to move 
on to the other business items on its agenda.  However, individuals in attendance at the meeting 
continued to talk among themselves about the antenna proposal.  The Executive Director 
emphasized that the individuals in attendance at the meeting were not unruly or intentionally 
disruptive, but the discussions among the very large group were loud and prevented the Board 
from continuing with its business, as the Board members could not hear each other nor could 
others in attendance who wished to observe the remainder of the meeting hear the Board’s 
discussions.  For approximately five minutes the Board attempted to restore order in the meeting 
room but was unsuccessful.  Eventually the Board announced that those who wished to continue 
discussing the antenna could remain in the Community Room, and that the Board would move its 
meeting to the Executive Director’s office down the hall where all who wished to observe the 
remainder of the meeting were welcome to join. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
 
3 The Board consists of five members; therefore, two members do not constitute a quorum and we identify  no 
concerns with the two members meeting with the Executive Director in advance of the Board’s posted meeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  In order to be open to the public, a meeting 
must be accessible to the public.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); OML 2014-3.4  Access to a meeting 
must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and hear what is being 
discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54. 
  
The Open Meeting Law further provides that “[a]fter notifying the chair of the public 
body, any person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a 
public body, or may transmit the meeting through any medium, subject to reasonable 
requirements of the chair as to the number, placement and operation of equipment used so as not 
to interfere with the conduct of the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). 
 
The complaint first alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by denying the 
videographer access to the July 13 meeting.  We do not find evidence supporting this assertion.  
Rather, the videographer arrived 30 minutes before the meeting was scheduled to begin, spoke 
briefly with the Executive Director in her office, and then headed to the meeting location, where 
he encountered a locked door and two unidentified individuals, who did not work for or represent 
the Board, informed him that the meeting was not public.  For a meeting to be truly open to the 
public, the meeting venue must be accessible to the public for the duration of the meeting.  See 
OML 2014-118.  We have previously found that a meeting venue was not accessible where the 
main entrance was locked and there was no signage instructing the public how to access the 
meeting.  See id.  However, we have also stated that a meeting in a locked building is sufficiently 
accessible where members of the public can access the building by notifying personnel or 
knocking on a window.  See OML 2011-52.  Here, there is no allegation that the door in question 
was locked or otherwise inaccessible during the meeting or even shortly beforehand; rather, the 
videographer encountered the locked door half an hour before the meeting was scheduled to 
begin and then left the building.  The Executive Director represents, and we find no evidence to 
the contrary, that the videographer did not return to her office to request access, and had he done 
so she would have promptly unlocked the door so he could set up his equipment prior to the 
meeting.  On these facts, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Next, the complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by moving the 
meeting to a room that was too small to accommodate all those in attendance.  We find that the 
Board’s decision to move the meeting location was appropriate under the circumstances.  The 
Board began its meeting in the large Community Room, which adequately accommodated the 
large number of individuals in attendance at the meeting who were primarily interested in the 
discussion regarding the cell antenna proposal.  After discussion on that topic had ended, 
individuals in attendance at the meeting continued to talk among themselves, and the Board tried 
for five minutes to restore order and to quiet the room so the Board could continue its meeting 
and discuss the other items on its agenda.  When that was not successful, the Board announced 
that those who wished to continue discussing the antenna could remain in the Community Room, 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
and that the Board would move its meeting to the Executive Director’s office down the hall 
where all who wished to observe the remainder of the meeting were welcome to join.  We find 
that the Board’s resolution not only was acceptable but indeed was appropriate, as continuing its 
meeting in the very loud Community Room may have impaired the ability of members of the 
public to hear the Board’s discussions.  See OML 2019-157.  Furthermore, we find no evidence 
that anyone was prevented from joining the remainder of the Board’s meeting in the Executive 
Director’s office; only a few individuals chose to follow the Board to that location and they were 
adequately accommodated in the smaller location.  Therefore, we find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law in this regard. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Law.  We now 
consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This determination does 
not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or the Board.  Please feel 
free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Sonya Bykofsky (via email: )  
  
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
