===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
February 29, 2016 
OML 2016-22 
Nancy E. Glowa, City Solicitor 
Cambridge City Hall 
795 Mass. Avenue 
Cambridge, Ma 02139 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Glowa: 
This office received a complaint from Ilan Levy, dated December 8, 2015, alleging that 
the Cambridge City Council (the "Council") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Council on September 28, 2015, and, after an 
extension of time was granted, the Council responded by letter dated October 27, 2015. In his 
complaint, Mr. Levy alleges that a quorum of the Council deliberated outside of a properly 
noticed meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Council's response; and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed all documentation provided 
with these filings, including a copy of an article from the Cambridge Chronicle entitled, "Seven 
Cambridge Councilors Form 'Unity Slate' for Election." Sara Feijo, CAMBRIDGE 
CHRONICLE (September 9, 2015). We spoke with the City Solicitor and Assistant City 
Solicitor by telephone on January 15, 2015 and February 4, 2015.' Finally, we spoke with Unity 
Slate Campaign Manager Brian Muldoon on February 25, 2016. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Council is a nine-member public body, thus five 
members constitute a quorum. At the relevant time, the complainant was a candidate for the 
Council. In early July 2015, seven members of the Council decided to combine their resources 
in order to run for reelection as a unified slate of candidates called the "Unity Slate." The Unity 
Slate members held several meetings over the months that followed. During the meetings, the 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
' For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
2 The following are dates on which Unity Slate meetings occurred: July 14, 28, and 31, 2015; August 6 and 17, 
2015; September 9, 14, 18, 21, and 28, 2015; and October 5, 12, 19, 21, and 26, 2015. The Unity Slate members 
===PAGE 2===
attendees discussed the coordination of their campaign resources; the business of the Council 
was not discussed. On July 28, 2015, the Unity Slate members held a meeting during which the 
candidates decided to hire a campaign manager whose services would be shared among the seven 
candidates and who would create a unified message for the Slate. 
On September 9, 2015, the Cambridge Chronicle published an article announcing the 
formation of the Unity Slate. The article contained a list of priorities that the Slate members 
intended to focus on if reelected: affordable housing, education, environment, public safety, arts 
and culture, poverty, job creation, and keeping residential taxes low. No details were given on 
specific programs the candidates intended to use to achieve these broad goals. This list of 
priorities was prepared by the Slate's shared campaign manager based on the individual websites 
and past speeches of the various candidates. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 3 OA, 
§§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as a "deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined, in 
relevant part, as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id. A "quorum" is defined as "a simple majority of the members of the public 
body, unless otherwise provided in a general or special law, executive order or other authorizing 
provision." Id. 
The complaint alleges that the Council members involved in the Unity Slate, which 
consisted of a quorum of the Council, deliberated outside of a meeting on matters within the 
Council's jurisdiction. While it is true that a quorum of the Council engaged in discussions 
outside of noticed meetings, we find that these discussions did not concern "public business 
within [the Council's] jurisdiction." See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2012-64; OML 2012-10. 
Statements made by public body members for political purposes that do not involve matters 
presently or likely to come under consideration by the public body in the future are not 
communications on public business within the jurisdiction of the body, regardless of whether 
they are made by an individual public body member or by the members collectively. See OML 
2012-64. Here, the discussions that took place during the Unity Slate meetings concerned the 
political campaign activities of the Unity Slate members and not the business of the Council, 
Further, the list of priorities included in the Cambridge Chronicle article was prepared by the 
shared campaign manager and did not reflect the result of deliberation among the candidates. 
For these reasons, we find that the Council members at issue did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
cannot recall if all candidates were present for all of these meetings, or, rather, if staff members attended in their 
place. Additionally, the Unity Slate candidates met on August 24, 2015 to take a group photograph. 
3 No candidates or staff members took notes during any of these meetings. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ilan Levy 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L, c. BOA, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 