===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
June 24, 2019 
OML 2019-77
Dominic Raffa 
Chairman
Somerset Advisory and Finance Committee 
140 Wood Street 
Somerset, MA 02726
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Mr. Raffa:
This office received three complaints from Patrick Higgins on May 31 alleging that the 
Somerset Advisory and Finance Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Committee on or about 
April 8, and the Committee responded by letter dated May 7.2 In his complaints, Mr. Higgins 
alleges that the Committee posted notices that were insufficiently detailed for meetings held on 
March 18, March 25, and April 1. Specifically, Mr. Higgins alleges that the agenda item 
“Review FY20 Department budgets” was insufficiently detailed and that the notices should have 
identified the specific departments to be discussed.
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting insufficiently detailed notices for its March 25 and April 1 meetings only. In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Committee’s response, the request 
for further review, and the meeting notices and minutes for the three meetings at issue. We also
1 All dates are in 2019.
2 We note that, although the Committee’s response is dated May 7, the Complainant was not sent the response until 
May 29 and our office did not receive a copy of the response until June 10. We further note that the Committee did 
not review the complaint within the 14 business days required under the Open Meeting Law, nor did the Committee 
supply our office with a copy of the complaints. We remind the Committee that it must review and respond to an 
Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 business days, unless it secures an extension from the Director of the 
Division of Open Government. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).
o
1

===PAGE 2===
communicated with the Chair by telephone on June 10 and 17 and the Town Clerk’s Office by 
phone and email on June 10.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Committee posted meeting notices for its March 18, 
March 25, and April 1 meetings that each included the agenda item “Review FY20 Department 
budgets.” None of the meeting notices included any further detail about which department 
budgets would be discussed.
When posting notice for the March 18 meeting, the Chair anticipated that the Committee 
would discuss, generally, department budgets for fiscal year 2020. The March 18 meeting 
included a general discussion of department budgets for fiscal year 2020. However, by the time 
the Chair posted notice for the March 25 and April 1 meetings, he anticipated that the Committee 
would be discussing specific department budgets at each of those meetings. Indeed, 
representatives from the Highway Department and the Water and Sewer Department attended the 
March 25 and April 1 meetings, respectively, to present on and discuss their budgets.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice 
with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently detailed when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35. The Open Meeting Law does not require a 
public body to anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion, only that it 
identify the discussion topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 
2017-186; OML 2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38.
After review of the notice and minutes for the March 18 meeting, and after discussion 
with the Chair, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law as to the notice for the March 18 
meeting. We find that the Chair had anticipated discussing department budgets for fiscal year 
2020 generally and that no specific department’s budget was anticipated as a topic of discussion. 
Considering the general nature of the anticipated discussion, the agenda item “Review FY20 
Department budgets” was sufficiently detailed.
On the other hand, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting insufficiently detailed notices for its March 25 and April 1 meetings. We find that the 
Chair specifically anticipated in advance that the March 25 and April 1 meetings would include 
discussion of specific department budgets. Indeed, the heads of the departments to be discussed 
were on notice and were in attendance at the respective meetings. Where the Chair anticipated 48 
hours in advance of those meetings which departments’ budgets would be discussed, that 
additional detail should have been included on the meeting notices. The general agenda item 
“Review FY20 Department budgets” did not provide enough detail such that a reasonable
2

===PAGE 3===
member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public 
body’s discussion, namely, that a specific department’s budget would be discussed.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law.
We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar 
violations in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. 
940 CMR 29.02.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions.
cc: Patrick Higgins
Sincerely,-
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3
