===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 16, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 213 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Darren R. Klein, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110  
dklein@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Klein: 
 
This office received a complaint from Scot McCauley on May 28, 2025,
1 alleging that the 
Burlington School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about April 28, and you 
responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated June 12.2 The complaint alleges that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law during its April 8 meeting by improperly recessing 
the meeting twice without taking a formal vote to recess and by deliberating in the hallway 
during the two recesses. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
by improperly deliberating during the two recesses. We decline to review whether the Committee 
improperly recessed its April 8 meeting. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open 
Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response, the request to our office for further review, 
and a video recording of the Committee’s April 8 meeting.
3  
 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 We remind the Committee of its obligation under the Open Meeting Law to review and respond to Open Meeting 
Law complaints within fourteen business days. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). Although the Committee 
did request an extension of time to respond to the complaint, it did not do so until after fourteen business days had 
passed from the filing of the complaint; therefore, our office was unable to grant an extension of time. 940 CMR 
29.05(5)(b). 
3 A video recording of the Committee’s April 8 meeting may be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wDz9g5e53qQ.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We decli ne to review whether the Committee recessed its April 8 meeting without 
taking a formal vote where, even if true, this would not constitute a violation of the 
Open Meeting Law. 
  
The complaint alleges that the Committee twice “illegally” recessed its April 8 meeting 
“without a motion to do so, a second, discussion or taking a vote.” The complaint additionally 
alleges that a current member of the Committee exceeded her authority when she reiterated that 
the meeting was in recess where that member is not the chair. Finally, the complaint suggests 
that the recesses were not called in compliance with Robert’s Rules of Order.  
 
The Division of Open Government’s jurisdiction concerns compliance with the Open 
Mee
ting Law only. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Open Meeting Law does not prescribe specific 
requirements for recessing a meeting, nor does it require that all actions be subject to a 
vote. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25; OML 2025-47 (“The Law requires that if a vote is taken, it 
must be recorded accurately in the minutes; it does not require that all actions be subject to a 
vote.”); OML 2025-39 (declining to review whether board took action without formal votes).
4 
Allegations that the Committee recessed its meeting without taking a vote, that a Committee 
member exceeded her authority by reiterating that the meeting was in recess, and that the 
recesses failed to comply with Robert’s Rules of Order, even if true, would not constitute 
violations of the Open Meeting Law and we therefore decline to review them. 
  
II. The Committee did not deliberate during the recesses of its A
 pril 8 meeting. 
  
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Except when convened in executive session, “all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). A “meeting” is defined, in 
relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s 
jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly as “an 
oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction[.]” Id. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee “possibly violated the law by deliberating with 
a majority of the [Committee] in the hallway” during the recesses of the April 8 meeting. The 
complaint asserts that this allegation is “based upon how events played out that evening,” that 
attendees in the meeting room could see Committee members talking to each other as they left 
the room, and that upon returning from the second recess the Committee moved on to the next 
notice topic rather than continuing to discuss the topic being addressed prior to the recess. The 
Committee denies that a quorum of members communicated with each other regarding matters 
within the Committee’s jurisdiction during the recesses, explaining that “the Chair went out into 
the hallway separately to discuss matters concerning an unruly meeting with a police officer. No 
other Committee members ever were present for such discussions.” The Committee further 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
explains that “[o]ther Committee members, on a separate occasion, also spoke with the police 
officer but no two Committee members ever spoke to the police together . . . .” 
 
We have explained on many occasions that mere speculation or conjecture regarding 
delibe
ration outside of a posted meeting, without factual support, is insufficient to support a 
complaint’s allegations. See, e.g., OML 2025-15; OML 2024-91; OML 2024-14; OML 2023-
242; OML 2014-114; OML 2012-59. The Committee maintains that there was no 
communication regarding matters within the Committee’s jurisdiction between or among a 
quorum of the Committee in the hallway during the recesses, and we find nothing in the video 
recording of the meeting that would suggest that there was such communication during the 
recesses. Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s account of the 
facts. See OML 2025-43; OML 2023-121; OML 2016-141; see also LaPointe v. License Bd. of 
Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) (“There is every presumption in favor of the honesty and 
sufficiency of the motives actuating public officers in actions ostensibly taken for the general 
welfare.”). As there is no evidence that members of the Committee deliberated outside of a 
meeting, we find no violation. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Melissa Massardo, Chair, Burlington School Committee  
(via email: mmassardo@bpsk12.org)  
 Jennifer Priest, Town Clerk (via email: jnpriest@burlington.org) 
Scot McCauley (via email:  
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
