===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 18, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 195 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Brian M. Maser, Esq. 
KP Law 
BMaser@k-plaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Maser: 
 
This office received a complaint from Sharon Weizenbaum on May 23, 2024,
1 alleging 
that the Shutesbury Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 12, and, after an extension 
of time granted by our office, Town Administrator Rebecca Torres responded on behalf of the 
Board by letter dated May 7. The complaint alleges that the Board posted insufficient notice for 
an executive session held on April 9 where the notice did not identify the litigation matter to be 
discussed. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, the request for further review, and the notice for and minutes of the Board’s 
April 9 meeting. We also communicated with Attorney Maser by email and telephone.
2 
 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on April 9. Included on the notice was 
the topic “Executive Session for Reason #3, To discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or 
litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares, in this case threatened litigation.”  
During its April 9 meeting, the Board voted to enter executive session for the reason stated on 
the meeting notice.   
 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Except when meeting in executive session, “all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). A public body may enter an 
executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21. One such purpose is “[t]o discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or 
litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) 
(“Purpose 3”). 
 
Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in the 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); OML 2023-
207; OML 2019-85; see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 
Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“A precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is 
necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public 
that the [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would 
know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper.”).
3 When convening in executive 
session under Purpose 3 to discuss litigation strategy, both the meeting notice and the 
announcement before entering the executive session must identify the litigation matter to be 
discussed, if doing so will not compromise the executive session purpose. See OML 2024-111; 
OML 2012-89; OML 2014-50: OML 2016-12; OML 2020-47; see also Town of Hull, Bd. of 
Selectmen v. Healey, 2017 WL 8160437, at *7 (Mass.Super.) (“The OML does not prevent a 
public body from withholding from public disclosure the name of a litigant if the facts warrant it 
doing so to preserve the purpose of the executive session in light of adverse impacts that would 
otherwise result from such disclosure.”). We generally defer to a public body’s assessment of 
whether identifying the litigation matter to be discussed would compromise the purpose for the 
executive session; however, a public body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for that 
claim if challenged. See OML 2024-111; OML 2016-12. When meeting in executive session 
under Purpose 3, the purpose of the executive session is to protect the public body’s litigating 
position, in general vis-à-vis opposing parties to the litigation. See OML 2020-68; OML 2023-
189.   
 
The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law where the notice for 
the April 9 meeting did not include any details regarding the nature of the threatened litigation to 
be discussed in executive session. In its response, the Board asserts that it did not identify the 
specific threatened litigation to be discussed 1) out of concern for the potential litigant’s privacy 
and 2) because doing so would have compromised the purpose for the executive session. After 
discussion with Attorney Maser, we find that the Board has demonstrated a reasonable basis for 
its claim that identifying the specific litigation matter, or even the nature of the matter, may have 
compromised the purpose for the executive session, which was to protect the Board’s litigating 
position with respect to the threatened litigation. Therefore, we find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law when it posted notice for its April 9 executive session and 
identified the matter to be discussed simply as “threatened litigation.”  
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
Although we do not find a violation here, we appreciate the Complainant’s sincere 
concerns about government transparency and we remind the parties that executive session 
minutes may be withheld from the public for “as long as publication may defeat the lawful 
purposes of the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). Specifically, with respect 
to executive sessions held under Purpose 3, minutes may be withheld “until such time as a 
litigating, negotiating or bargaining position is no longer jeopardized by such disclosure.” Id.4  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Shutesbury Select Board (via email: selectboard@shutesbury.org)  
Rebecca Torres, Town Administrator (via email: townadmin@shutesbury.org) 
Grace Bannasch, Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@shutesbury.org) 
Sharon Weizenbaum (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
4 Although executive session minutes must be released once the executive session purpose has been served, such 
minutes may be redacted under a claim of attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
