===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 12, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 226 
 
VIA EMAIL ONL
 Y 
 
Mariem Marquetti, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
mmarguetti@mhtl.com 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Marquetti: 
 
This office received a complaint from Christine McCue Potts on June 7, 2022,
1 alleging 
that the Medfield School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on April 27, and you 
responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated May 16. The complaint alleges that 1) the 
Chair, without a vote of the Committee, released four sets of executive session minutes in 
response to a request for those minutes; and 2) the minutes of the Committee’s March 24 
executive session are insufficiently detailed.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged. In reaching this determination we reviewed the original Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Committee’s response, the request for further review, and the minutes of the 
Committee’s executive session held on March 24.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Chair violated the Open Meeting Law when, in response to 
a Mar
ch 31 request for executive session minutes made by the Complainant, the Chair provided 
the requested minutes despite the fact that the Committee had not authorized release of the 
minutes. We find no violation with respect to this allegation. Executive session minutes may be 
withheld from the public for “as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the 
executive session, but no longer . . . .” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). Although the Open Meeting Law 
allows public bodies to keep executive session discussions confidential for a period of time, the 
Open Meeting Law does not require that public body members keep topics discussed in 
executive session confidential prior to the approval and release of the executive session minutes 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise noted. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
nor does the law impose penalties for members’ failure to do so. See OML Declination 6-23-22 
(Monterey Select Board) (no violation where public body member revealed certain executive 
session matters regarding an ongoing investigation prior to release of executive session minutes); 
OML Declination 5-31-17 (North Attleborough Board of Selectmen) (no violation where public 
body disseminated information to the media regarding a disciplinary action that had been 
discussed in executive session prior to release of executive session minutes); OML 2014-91 (no 
violation where public body chair disclosed the substance of public body’s Purpose 1 executive 
session discussions with newspaper reporter prior to release of executive session minutes);
 OML 
Declination 9-4-2020 (Walpole Board of Selectmen).2 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the minutes for the March 24 executive session are 
insuff
iciently detailed because they do not include information about certain provisions of the 
Superintendent’s contract extension. The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to “create 
and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the 
date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each 
subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the 
actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When 
reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial 
compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2013-64; OML 2017-1047. By substantial 
compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a 
member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear 
understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106. Although minutes must include a summary 
of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to 
include every remark or opinion presented. See OML 2012-29; OML 2019-136; OML 2020-105. 
Minutes of executive sessions must include the same level of detail as is required for open 
sessions. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2020-53. After review of the minutes, we find that the 
Committee substantially complied with the requirement that it provide an accurate and 
sufficiently detailed summary of the discussion that occurred during the March 24 executive 
session.
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
3 We remind the Committee that when in executive session, all votes must be taken by roll call and recorded in the 
minutes as such. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(b). 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that Committee did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Anna Mae O’Shea Brooke, Chair, Medfield School Committee (via e- mail: 
scchair@email.medfield.net) 
Christine McCue Potts (via email: )  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
