===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 T EL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 2, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 110 
 
 
Peter Sumners, Esq. 
Murphy, Lamere & Murphy, P.C. 
50 Braintree Hill Office Park, Suite 202 
Braintree, MA 02184-8807 
 
By email only: psumners@mlmlawfirm.com 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Sumners: 
This office received three complaints from David Harris on March 31, 2020, alleging that 
the Randolph School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1  The first and second complaints were originally filed with the Committee on 
January 17; and the third complaint was originally filed with the Committee on January 30.  
Committee Chair Andrea Nixon responded to all three complaints, on behalf of the Committee, 
by letter dated February 6.  The first and second complaints allege that the Committee discussed 
and voted on a matter, the reorganization of the Committee, during its January 2 meeting that 
was not listed on the notice.2  The third complaint alleges that all decisions, orders, votes and 
actions that have been initiated by the Committee while Andrea Nixon has been Chair “are 
legally null and void.”  
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters.  Following 
our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by reorganizing on 
January 2 without including such topic on the meeting notice.  We find that the Committee did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaints, the Committee’s response to the complaints, and the complaint 
filed with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed the notice of the Committee’s 
January 2 meeting and the notice of the Town Council’s January 2 meeting, as well as a video 
 
1 Unless otherwise noted, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 
2 Specifically, the first complaint alleges that the Committee nominated and voted for a Chair, while the second 
complaint alleges that the Committee nominated and voted for a Vice Chair, during its January 2 meeting without 
either topic being listed on the notice. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
recording of that meeting.3  In addition, we reviewed the notices and open session minutes of the 
Committee’s January 23 and February 6 meetings.  Finally, we spoke with the complainant by 
telephone on May 6, July 7, and July 28; with you by telephone on August 7 and August 19; and 
separately with Committee members Ida Gordon and Andrea Nixon by telephone on August 19. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Committee is a seven-member public body; six 
members are elected, while the seventh member is a designee from the Town Council.  The 
Town of Randolph held a town wide election on November 5, 2019, which included the election 
of six Committee members – Pamela Davis, Cheryl Frazier, Ida Gordon, Lisa Millwood, Duong 
Nguyen, and Andrea Nixon.  At the time of the election, Ida Gordon was Chair of the 
Committee. 
 
Pursuant to the Town Council Rules Manual, on the first day of January following an 
election, the Town Council members, Committee members and Stetson Trustees
4 elected in the 
previous Town election shall be sworn in at an Inauguration Ceremony.  The Inauguration 
Ceremony shall be an official meeting of the Town Council, the Committee and the Stetson 
Trustees, and shall be noticed as such.  The Councilor who was President of the Council at the 
time of the previous Town election shall cause to take place a suitable ceremony for the swearing 
in of newly elected officers and the proper dignified transfer of office from the outgoing Town 
Councilors, Committee Members and Stetson Trustees to the incoming officers.  The Councilors-
Elect, Committee Members-Elect and Stetson Trustees-Elect shall be sworn to the faithful 
discharge of their duties.  After the Oaths have been administered to the Councilors present, the 
Town Council shall organize by electing from among its members a person to serve as President 
and a person to serve as Vice President.  The Council President shall then call upon the 
Committee to elect a Chair and Vice Chair of the  Committee.  See Section 9, Town Council 
Rules Manual. 
 
On December 26, 2019, the Town Council posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
Thursday, January 2 at 6:00 P.M.  The notice listed “Inauguration” as the one main topic with 
several subtopics then listed, including Swearing in of Officers; Town Manager Remarks; School 
Committee Chair Remarks; Town Council President Remarks; and Introduction of Council 
Orders 2020-001 to 2020-009.  Separately, also on December 26, 2019, the Committee posted 
notice for a meeting to be held on Thursday, January 2 at 6:00 P.M.  This notice listed 
“Inauguration” as the one main topic with several subtopics then listed, including Swearing in of 
Town Council, School Committee and Stetson Trustees newly elected members; Town Manager 
Remarks; School Committee Chair Remarks; and Town Council President Remarks. 
 
On January 2, Town Clerk Cheryl Sass administered the oaths of office to newly elected 
members of the Town Council (9 members), Committee (6 members), and Stetson Trustees (3 
members).  The Town Council elected its President and Vice President – James Burgess and 
 
3 A video recording of the January 2 meeting is available here:  
http://108.20.229.83/CablecastPublicSite/show/2107?channel=2. 
4 The Stetson Trustees is a three-member elected public body charged with serving as caretakers for the historic 
Stetson Hall in the Town of Randolph.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Ryan Egan, respectively.  Town Council President Burgess then appointed Town Council 
member Paul McDermott to serve on the Committee as the Council’s representative.  President 
Burgess then “call[ed] on the Committee to reorganize.”  Lisa Millwood nominated Andrea 
Nixon as Chair and Cheryl Frazier nominated Ida Gordon as Chair.  Duong Nguyen nominated 
Lisa Millwood as Vice Chair and Ida Gordon nominated Cheryl Frazier as Vice Chair.  By 
majority vote, the Committee appointed Ms. Nixon as Chair and Ms. Millwood as Vice Chair. 
   
The Committee duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on January 23 at 7 P.M.  The 
notice included nine topics, including Reorganization, Updates to two Committee policies, 
Budget updates, and Approval of minutes. 
 
The January 23 meeting was held as planned.  At the beginning of the meeting, the 
Committee reorganized.  Ms. Millwood nominated Ms. Nixon as Chair while Ms. Nguyen 
nominated Ms. Millwood as Vice Chair.  By majority vote, the Committee appointed Ms. Nixon 
as Chair and Ms. Millwood as Vice Chair.  The Committee then discussed amending certain 
policies, including one involving Reorganization (Policy BDA).  Normally, the Committee 
elected by majority vote a Chair and Vice Chair at the meeting immediately preceding the school 
year but the Committee now discussed amending that policy to include a second nomination 
period to occur during the Inauguration ceremony.
5  By majority vote, the Committee voted to 
amend Policy BDA to include new language requiring the Committee to elect a Chair and Vice 
Chair during “the meeting for which school committee members are sworn into office.”6  
 
During a February 6 meeting, the Committee ratified, by majority vote, “all actions taken 
by Andrea Nixon in her capacity as the presiding officer of the School Committee at the School 
Committee’s meeting(s) on January 4, 9, 16, and 23, 2020.” 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.    
 
5 The original policy includes the following language: At the meeting immediately preceding the school year, the 
Committee elects by majority vote a Chair and Vice Chair.  See Section B, File: BDA – School Committee 
Organizational Meeting. 
6 The entire language of the amended policy is as follows: “On a school year for which a town-wide election is held, 
the School Committee, at the meeting for which school committee members are sworn into office, shall elect from 
its membership a chairman and vice-chairman, both of whom will hold their respective offices until the meeting 
immediately preceding the start of the next school year.”  “Nominations for the office of chairman will be made 
from the floor. The chairman will be elected by a majority roll-call vote of the members present and voting . . . . 
Upon election, the new chairman will preside, calling for the election of a vice-chairman.”  See Section B, File: 
BDA – School Committee Organizational Meeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Public bodies must post notice of each meeting “at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, 
excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and every notice must include “the date, time 
and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The list of topics shall have “sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35; OML 2012-71; OML 2011-44.7   
 
The first two complaints allege that the Committee discussed and voted on a topic during 
its January 2 meeting that was not listed on the notice.  Specifically, the complaints allege that 
the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by nominating and voting to appoint Ms. Nixon 
as Chair and Ms. Millwood as Vice Chair of the Committee where the January 2 meeting notice 
did not include any reference to reorganization.  Here, the January 2 meeting was the 
Inauguration ceremony for newly elected Committee members.  While the Committee posted 
notice for the January 2 meeting, the notice only included the Swearing in of Committee 
members and Committee Chair remarks, and did not include a topic for reorganization.  
However, after all the Committee members were sworn in by the Town Clerk, Town Council 
President Burgess “call[ed] on the Committee to reorganize,” at which time the Committee voted 
to appoint Ms. Nixon as Chair and Ms. Millwood as Vice Chair.  The Committee stated that this 
procedure has been the practice for the last ten years.8  Moreover, Ms. Gordon, who was 
Committee Chair at the time of the January 2 meeting, stated to our office that she expected the 
Committee to reaffirm the positions of Chair and Vice Chair during the January 2 meeting.  
Discussion concerning the leadership of the Committee is a matter of public business that should 
be discussed during an open meeting and listed as a topic on the notice.  See OML 2015-3; OML 
2014-108; OML 2011-38.  Where the Committee failed to include such a topic on its January 2 
meeting notice, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law.  In response to the 
complaints, the Committee took remedial action and reorganized during its January 23 meeting, 
after listing on the notice a specific topic for Reorganization, and again appointed Ms. Nixon as 
Chair and Ms. Millwood as Vice Chair.9   
 
The third complaint alleges that all decisions, orders, votes and actions that have been 
initiated by the Committee while Andrea Nixon has been Chair “are legally null and void.”  
 
7 Open Meeting Law determinations and declination letters may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
8 We reviewed the video recordings of the Inauguration ceremonies that occurred in 2010, 2012, 2014, 2016 and 
2018, and note that the Committee nominated and voted for a chair and vice chair in three of the five Inauguration 
ceremonies.  A video recording of the 2018 ceremony is available here: 
http://108.20.229.83/CablecastPublicSite/show/1721?channel=2; a video recording of the 2016 ceremony is 
available here: http://108.20.229.83/CablecastPublicSite/show/1303?channel=2; a video recording of the 2014 
ceremony is available here: http://108.20.229.83/CablecastPublicSite/show/897?channel=2; a video recording of the 
2012 ceremony is available here: http://108.20.229.83/CablecastPublicSite/show/423?channel=2; and a video 
recording of the 2010 ceremony is available here: http://108.20.229.83/CablecastPublicSite/show/423?channel=2. 
9 We note that had the Committee attended the Inauguration as simply a swearing-in ceremony for newly elected 
members without discussing or taking any action to reorganize, the January 2 meeting might not have been 
considered a meeting subject to the Open Meeting Law.  See G. L. c. 30A, § 18 (“meeting” shall not include 
attendance by a quorum of a public body at a public gathering, including media, social or other event, so long as the 
members do not deliberate).   
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Moreover, the complaint alleges that Ms. Nixon “committed an act of fraud by posting a 
meeting” and further suggests that Ms. Nixon “can not legally run any” Committee meeting 
because she “illegally assumed the title of” Chair during the January 2 meeting.  The Open 
Meeting Law is silent on who has the authority to call meetings and does not specifically state 
that only the chair can post notice of a meeting.  See OML 2014-139.  Rather, the law states that 
“a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting.”  See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Here, the Committee duly posted notice for meetings on January 4, 9, 16, 
and 23.  As such, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it met 
on those dates and took actions and made decisions.  
 
Finally, the Open Meeting Law does not specifically require that a public body appoint a 
member as chair nor does the law mandate that only a specific public body member, such as the 
chair, has authority to “run” a meeting.  Although the law does identify several responsibilities of 
the chair, we have stated that those responsibilities may be performed by the chair or the person 
acting as chair.  See, e.g., G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f) (individual wishing to record open meeting must 
notify the chair and the chair must inform attendees of any recordings); G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g) (no 
person shall address a meeting without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the 
request of the chair, be silent); G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(4) (before an executive session, the chair 
shall state the purpose for the executive session); 940 CMR 29.10 (7)(a),(b) (public body 
member who wishes to participate remotely must notify the chair, or in the chair’s absence, the 
person chairing the meeting and the chair shall announce the name of any member participating 
remotely); OML 2019-101.  Here, other than alleging that Ms. Nixon wrongly acted as chair 
during the January 4, 9, 16, and 23 meetings, there is no allegation in the complaint that the 
Committee failed to carry out its responsibilities in accordance with the Open Meeting Law 
during those meetings.  Although we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include a topic of Reorganization on its January 2 meeting notice, whether Ms. Nixon 
“illegally assumed the title of” Chair during that meeting is a matter outside the jurisdiction of 
this office.  Moreover, the Open Meeting Law does not govern the authority of individual public 
body members to act on behalf of the public body.  See OML 2020-120; OML 2013-73.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 We find that the Committee viol ated the Open Meeting Law by reorganizing on January 
2 without including such topic on the meeting notice, although we find that the Committee took 
appropriate remedial action in response to the complaints.  With respect to the remaining 
allegations, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  We order the 
Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that 
similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.   
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
       
       K e r r y A n n e  K i l c oyne 
       A s s i s t a n t  A t t o r n e y  G e n e r a l  
       D i v i s i o n  o f  O p e n  G o v e r n m e n t  
 
 
cc: David Harris – By e-mai l only:  
Randolph School Committee – By e-mail only: 
randolphschoolcommittee@randolph.k12.ma.us 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
