===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 29, 2018 
OML 2018-43 
William Hewig, III, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street, 12th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Hewig: 
This office received a complaint from Kathleen Prunier on December 4, alleging that 
the Groveland Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about October 5, 
and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated October 25.2 In 
her complaint, Ms. Prunier alleges that the Board deliberated by email on April 19 and April 
20.3 
Following our review, we find that Chair Dunn violated the Open Meeting Law by 
using a third party to deliberate by email. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint, the Board's response to the complaint, the complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review, and the emails at issue. Finally, in January we spoke by telephone 
with the complainant. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum. In April 2017, the complainant volunteered to assist the town 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise specified. 
2 In its response, the Board asserts that the complaint was not timely filed with the Board. The Open Meeting 
Law requires that complaints be filed with the public body within 30 days of the alleged violation, or within 30 
days of the date on which the alleged violation could reasonably have been discovered. G.L, c. 30A, § 23(b); 
940 CMR 29.05(4). While the timeliness of this complaint is certainly a close question, we find that, although 
Ms. Prunier was aware that the Board communicated about her in April, she could not have discovered the 
specific content of the emails until the Board had provided her with copies in response to her public records 
request, which she received on September 7. We therefore find the complaint to be timely filed with the Board. 
3 Ms. Prunier also alleges that the content of the emails were "disparaging" and "threatening in nature." Because 
the Open Meeting Law does not govern the content of a public body's communication, but rather the manner in 
which it is communicated Qe., during a properly posted meeting), we decline to review this allegation. See OML 
2011-29. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
clerk while she was out of the office for a period of time. On April 19, town Finance 
Director/Personnel Director Denise Dembkoski sent an email to the Board members updating 
them on the status of the town clerk's office during the town clerk's absence, explaining that 
she has gained access to the office by "jimmying the door open," but that the complainant has 
the only key to the door. Ms. Dembkoski recommended changing the lock if the key was not 
turned over and appointing a temporary town clerk at the Board's next meeting. Ms. 
Dembkoski noted that Board Chair William Dunn spoke with a former town clerk and 
recommended the Board consider him for the appointment. (Email 1). 
Board member Mike Wood replied to Ms. Dembkoski, copying Chair Dunn, and 
stated, "[The complainant] should not be permitted to do anything in that office." (Email 2). 
Board member William O'Neill also replied to Ms. Dembkoski, copying Chair Dunn and 
stated, "[t]he locks should be changed ASAP" and "I agree with you that we need to keep [the 
complainant] out of that office." (Email 3). Chair Dunn responded to Mr. O'Neill and Ms. 
Demboski stating, "[a]s I said today, I will collect the key from that office as soon as I 
possible (sic) can... We as a board can appoint a temp town clerk[,]" (Email 4) to which Mr. 
O'Neill responded, "[t]his situation is quickly becoming a major distraction and 
embarrassment to the Town and also reflects poorly on the judgement and competence of the 
[Board]." (Email 5). Chair Dunn then replied to Mr. O'Neill, "You have my word I will not 
let it reflect on the board.. .If [Ms. Dembkoski] wants key she will get it." (Email 6). 
The next day, on April 20, Ms. Dembkoski sent a follow-up email to the Board after 
speaking with the town clerk. Ms. Dembkoski informed the Board that the town clerk "called 
[Chair Dunn] upset because I changed her password.. .After a series of back-and-forth phone 
calls, [Chair Dunn] told [the town clerk] to show [the Administrative Assistant and Treasury 
and Tax Collections Clerk] a few things in the office, leave the key, and go home... [Chair 
Dunn] spoke with [the former town clerk] and he is not prepared to assist us with any help." 
(Email 7). 
Two Board members responded to this email. Board member Daniel MacDonald 
responded to Ms. Dembkoski and stated, "I think as a courtesy reach out [to] Anne Brodie. If 
she is unable to serve as clerk that the [Board] should appoint a temporary clerk at the next 
available meeting." (Email 8). In a later email to Ms. Dembkoski, Mr. MacDonald stated, 
"Hopefully [the town clerk] understands the dilemma created in her absence. People need 
birth and death certificates to get certain things done.. .This may be a good argument for a 
change in the government structure." (Email 9). Mr. O'Neill also responded to Ms. 
Dembkoski, copying Chair Dunn, "How is it that [the complainant] can have access to an 
office that a duly elected official does not have access to?" (Email 10). 
Later that day, Cassandra Murphy, the Administrative Assistant and the Treasury and 
Tax Collections Clerk, sent an email to the Board members informing them that, at Chair 
Dunn's request, she met with the town clerk in an attempt to assist her. Ms. Murphy stated, "I 
then called [Chair Dunn] while I was standing in her office to clarify exactly what he wanted 
me to do. I was told that [the town clerk] needs to teach me a few things." (Email 11). On 
April 21, Ms. Dembkoski emailed the Board again with an update on the issue. Ms. 
Dembkoski stated. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
[Chair Dunn] has asked me to email you all with an update on where things stand with 
the Town Clerk's Office. He came in this morning and spoke to [the town clerk] 
privately... [Chair Dunn] asked [Ms. Murphy] if she would fill in as temporary town 
clerk for Town Meeting. She has agreed and [the town clerk] has been 
infonned.. .Yesterday, I had amended the BOS agenda for the pre-town meeting to add 
an appointment of a temporary town clerk, because I was unsure where things stood 
with [the town clerk]. So the Board will need to meet before town meeting and vote 
on that and discuss anything else relative to town meeting. (Email 12). 
On April 24, the Board appointed Ms. Murphy to serve as the temporary town clerk. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." GhiRlione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through 
any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction^]" Id. 
The complaint alleges that the Board improperly deliberated by email on April 19 and 
April 20. Ms. Dembkoski, a town employee who is not a member of the Board, sent three 
emails (Emails 1, 7 and 12) to the entire Board to update it on an ongoing issue concerning 
the town clerk's office and duties. Four of the five Board members responded to those 
emails. While it is a close question, we find that the Board's emails were sent between a 
subquorum of two Board members, at most, as Mr. Wood and Mr. O'Neill copied Chair Dunn 
on their responses to Ms. Dembkoski. Chair Dunn, being the common thread in the 
communications, did not forward or share the content of those individual emails with other 
Board members and hence the emails did not reach a quorum of the Board in violation of the 
Open Meeting Law. See OML 2016-55; OML 2015-3; McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. 
Ct. 637, 648-49 (2008) (holding a public body may not engage in a serial deliberation, 
whereby a quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on 
a matter within the public body's jurisdiction).4 
However, Ms. Dembkoski's April 21 email to the Board about the status of the town 
clerk's office and the appointment of a temporary town clerk (Email 12) was sent to the Board 
specifically at Chair Dunn's request; a communication that Chair Dunn himself could not 
send to the Board under the Open Meeting Law. While a public body may ask a non-member, 
such as a staff member, to communicate scheduling or procedural information or distribute 
documents or reports to be discussed at an upcoming meeting, it may not ask that individual 
to communicate on matters that the Board would otherwise save for discussion at an open 
meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18 ("deliberation" does not include the distribution of a meeting 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
http: //www. mass. go v/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting [information] or 
the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed, provided that no opinion of a 
member is expressed"); see also District Attorney for the Northern District v. School 
Committee of Wayland. 451 Mass. 561, 570- 571 (2009) ("Governmental bodies may not 
circumvent the requirements of the open meeting law by conducting deliberations via private 
messages, whether electronically, in person, over the telephone, or in any other form"). 
Therefore, this email violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2016-49; OML 2016-31; 
OML 2014-80. 
On the other hand, Ms. Dembkoski's other two emails and Ms. Murphy's email were 
one-way communications from non-Board town employees to the Board which were not 
explicitly sent at a Board member's direction (although they repeatedly reference Chair 
Dunn's actions which demonstrate his close involvement in the matter). Absent concrete 
evidence that Chair Dunn had instructed the employees to send those emails, we credit the 
Board and find that they were permissible communications under the law. See OML 2014-80 
(a non-member may send one-way communications to a public body, but may not facilitate 
communication between them). We commend the Board for publicly disclosing all of the 
emails at issue during an open meeting in response to this complaint. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that Chair Dunn violated the Open Meeting Law 
by using a third party to deliberate by email. We order the Board's immediate and future 
compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Kathleen Prunier 
Groveland Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 