===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 15, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 92 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Eleanor Chew 
Clerk, Fairhaven Historical Commission 
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Clerk Chew: 
 
This office received a complaint from Wayne Oliveira on March 10, 2025,
1 alleging that 
the Fairhaven Historical Commission (the “Commission”), and specifically then-Commission 
Chair Michael Kelly,2 violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint 
was originally filed with the Commission on February 6, and Chair Kelly responded on behalf of 
the Commission on February 13.  The complaint alleges that during the Commission’s February 
4 meeting the Commission discussed a topic that was not included on the meeting notice.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Commission’s response, and the request for further review of the complaint.  We also reviewed 
the notice and minutes of the Commission’s February 4 meeting as well as a video recording of 
the meeting.
3 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows.  At relevant times, the complainant Wayne Oliveira 
was a member of the Commission and Michael Kelly was the Commission’s Chair.  The 
Commission posted notice for a meeting to be held on February 4; the notice did not include any 
topics pertaining to meeting scheduling or Commission member attendance.  Mr. Oliveira did 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 Michael Kelly no longer serves on the Commission. 
3 A video recording of the Commission’s February 4 meeting can be found at 
https://vimeo.com/showcase/11515041?video=1051751696. 
 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
not attend the Commission’s February 4 meeting.  During the “Chair’s Report” section of the 
meeting, Chair Kelly stated that at the next meeting he intended to revisit the scheduling of the 
Commission’s meetings, as the current meeting day did not work well for some members.  Chair 
Kelly also remarked that Mr. Oliveira had missed the last four meetings and five of the previous 
seven meetings; that Commission members were expected to be active members and repeatedly 
not showing up was unacceptable; that he had broached the possibility of Mr. Oliveira resigning; 
and that if Mr. Oliveira’s attendance did not improve with an adjustment to the meeting day then 
the Commission may need to explore its options including asking the Select Board to take action.  
Chair Kelly’s comments regarding Mr. Oliveira’s attendance and expectations for Commission 
members lasted approximately one minute.  No Commission member responded to Chair Kelly’s 
remarks regarding Mr. Oliveira’s attendance, and there was no further discussion regarding the 
scheduling of meetings.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, “[e]xcept in an emergency, . . . a public body shall 
post not
ice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to the meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holiday.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Meeting notices must include “a listing of topics that 
the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  Id.  Such topics must be listed 
with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(1)(b).  A public body may, however, discuss a topic that was not 
included on the meeting notice if the chair did not reasonably anticipate discussion of the topic 
48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays, prior to the meeting.
4  See OML 2020-172; OML 
2019-131; OML 2018-119.5  
 
The complaint alleges that the Commission, and specifically Chair Kelly, violated the 
Open Meeting Law when it made “disparaging comments” and discussed Mr. Oliveira’s meeting 
attendance record without providing notice that the topic would be discussed.  The Commission 
responds that the Chair’s remarks regarding meeting scheduling and attendance were not 
anticipated 48 hours prior to the meeting, as Chair Kelly was not notified that Mr. Oliveira would 
not be in attendance at the February 4 meeting until 24 hours prior to the meeting.   
 
Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s account of the facts. 
See OM
L 2023-121; OML 2017-93; OML 2016- 141; see also LaPointe v. License Board of 
Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) (“There is every presumption in favor of the honesty and 
sufficiency of the motives actuating public officers in actions ostensibly taken for the general 
welfare.”).  We are satisfied that the Commission, and Chair Kelly specifically, did not anticipate 
discussion of Mr. Oliveira’s meeting attendance 48 hours in advance of the meeting, and did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law.
6  Moreover, to the extent the complaint alleges that the 
 
4 Although a public body may discuss a truly unanticipated topic at a meeting, the Attorney General recommends 
postponing discussion and action on unanticipated topics that are controversial or may be of particular interest to the 
public if the topic can wait until a subsequent meeting. See OML 2020-172; OML 2019-131; OML 2018-119 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
6 Because we find the subject matter of Chair Kelly’s comments was unanticipated, we do not address whether the 
brief remarks, without further discussion or action, constituted a topic that would need to be included on a meeting 
notice in any event. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Commission failed to personally notify Mr. Oliveira that he would be discussed at the meeting, 
we not
e that the Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to provide notice to an 
individual that they will be discussed at a meeting unless the public body will discuss the 
individual in executive session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1).  See OML 2012-85; OML 2017-
12.   
 
Finally, to the extent the complaint raises concerns about incivility or unprofessional 
behavior
, we decline to review such allegations because, even if true, they do not constitute 
violations of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML Declination 6-14-2016 (Sterling Board of 
Selectmen) (“An allegation of unprofessional conduct or incivility towards town employees or 
members of the public does not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law.”); OML 2019-
166; OML Declination 5-25-2023 (Westminster Planning Board).  Our office encourages civility 
and professional conduct during meetings of public bodies.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
the Commission or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if 
you have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Wayne Oliveira (via email: ) 
Charles K Murphy, Chair, Fairhaven Selectboard (via email:  
cmurphy@fairhaven-ma.gov) 
Fairhaven Town Clerk (via email: ehoran@fairhaven-ma.gov) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
