===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
February 22, 2018 
OML 2018 - 22 
Katherine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan on October 20, alleging that 
the Ashland Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about September 21, and 
you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated October 5. In his 
complaint, Mr. Morgan alleges that, during its September 19 meeting, the Board discussed 
several anticipated topics that were added to the notice within 48 hours of the meeting. 
Additionally, Mr. Morgan alleges that some of the topics on the notice lacked sufficient detail. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include sufficient detail on its September 19 meeting notice. We do not find that the 
Board violated the law in the other way alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint, the Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our 
office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notice and minutes from the Board's 
September 19 meeting. Finally, we reviewed information we had requested from the Board, 
which its counsel provided to us by phone and email. 
We find the facts as follows. On Friday, September 15, the Board posted notice of a 
meeting scheduled for Tuesday, September 19. This notice posted numerous topics including 
the following under the heading, "Scheduled Hearings/Appearance," "7:20 pm-Trichome." 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise specified. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
Under the heading, "Consent Agenda," the Board posted the topic, "Accept the 
donation to the Ashland Food Pantry including Toys, Food Clothing and School Supplies 
from numerous individuals and organizations." Under the heading, "Old/New Business," the 
Board posted listed the following topics: 
a. Discuss McGill Square 
b. Memorandum of Understanding-Apple Ridge-Easement Sidewalk and Multimodel 
Path 
c. Facilities Easement Agreement-Authorizes access of the private driveways and all 
utility corridors 
d. Easement Agreement-To pass on foot or any non-motorized vehicle excluding 
horses solely for recreational and education purposes 
e. Certification of National Bank Merger of First Niagara Bank, National Association 
into KeyBank National Association 
Then, just hours before the meeting, the Board posted a revised agenda adding 
the following two topics: "6:55 pm-Continuation of the Pole Hearing-West Union Street" and 
"Hazard Mitigation Plan." After Town offices had closed on Friday, September 15, the 
Metropolitan Area Planning Council sent an email the town manager that the deadline for 
approving the hazard mitigation plan was at the end of the month. As it was the last Board 
meeting scheduled for the month, the town manager added the topic to this meeting's notice. 
The town manager spoke with the Board chair at some point about this last-minute addition, 
but neither could recall when exactly the phone call took place. 
During the meeting, the Board did not hold the Pole Hearing or discuss the McGill 
Square topic. One of the first topics discussed during the meeting, listed on the notice as 
"Trichome," concerned Trichome Health Corporation's request from the Board for a letter of 
support or non-opposition to the operation of a medical marijuana dispensary. After hearing 
several comments from residents, the Board took the issue under advisement. The Board then 
voted to approve the Consent Agenda, which included accepting donations made to the 
Ashland Food Pantry. 
The Board proceeded to discuss topics listed under "Old/New Business." The Board 
approved a memorandum of understanding between Apple Ridge and the town for a utility 
easement, sidewalk and multimodal path. The Board approved utility easement to authorize 
access to private driveways and all utility corridors in order to access water and sewer 
utilities, as needed. The Board also approved an easement agreement to allow options for a 
hiking or biking trail in town and approved the certification of a merger of First Niagara Bank 
and KeyBank in order to make easement agreements superior to mortgages. The Board also 
discussed and approve the hazard mitigation plan. 
In response to this complaint, the Board conceded that the topic listed for the 
Trichome medical marijuana dispensary lacked sufficient detail. Accordingly, the Board held 
another discussion of this topic during its October 4 meeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body must post notice of every meeting at 
least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). Notices must include "a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." Id. The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We 
generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could 
read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See 
OML 2015-35.2 
I. The Board Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Discussing an 
Unanticipated Topic That Was Added to the Notice Within 48 Hours Before 
the Meeting. 
The complaint alleges that the Board added two topics to the meeting notice, 
"Continuation of the Pole Hearing-West Union Street" and "Hazard Mitigation Plan," just 
hours before the meeting. Because the Board did not discuss the Pole Hearing during the 
meeting, we decline to find a violation. See OML 2016-76 ("where a public body does not 
actually engage in any deliberation on a particular topic, it cannot violate the Open Meeting 
Law with respect to the sufficiency of the meeting notice"). The Board did discuss the 
Hazard Mitigation Plan, however. This topic came to the town manager's attention in the 
afternoon of Friday, September 15, after Town Hall had closed for the day. At some point 
before the meeting on Tuesday, the town manager and the Board chair spoke about adding the 
topic to the agenda, though neither could recall when that conversation took place. We credit 
their account that the chair was unaware of the issue until sometime within the 48 hours of the 
meeting (not including Saturday or Sunday). Accordingly, we find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law by proceeding with a discussion of this unanticipated topic 
during its September 19 meeting. Although a public body may consider an unanticipated 
topic that was not listed in the meeting notice, however, our office strongly encourages public 
bodies to postpone discussion and action on unnoticed topics that are controversial or may be 
of particular interest to the public. See OML 2016-23; OML 2012-85. 
II. Although Most of the Topics on the Board's September 19 Meeting Notice 
Were Sufficiently Detailed. One of the Topics Was Not. 
The complaint alleges that the following topics listed on the September 19 meeting 
notice lacked sufficient detail: 
Scheduled Hearings/Appearance: 7:20 pm-Trichome 
Accept the donation to the Ashland Food Pantry including Toys, Food Clothing and 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
School Supplies from numerous individuals and organizations 
Discuss McGill Square 
Memorandum of Understanding-Apple Ridge-Easement Sidewalk and Multimodel 
Path 
Facilities Easement Agreement-Authorizes access of the private driveways and all 
utility corridors 
Easement Agreement-To pass on foot or any non-motorized vehicle excluding horses 
solely for recreational and education purposes 
Certification of National Bank Merger of First Niagara Bank, National Association 
into KeyBank National Association 
After reviewing the meeting minutes, we find that all of the above topics provided the 
public with sufficient information and accurately reflected the discussions held during the 
meeting, with the exception of the topic concerning the Trichome medical marijuana 
dispensary. See OML 2017-169. First, because the Board did not discuss the McGill Square 
topic during the meeting, we decline to find a violation. See OML 2016-76 ("where a public 
body does not actually engage in any deliberation on a particular topic, it cannot violate the 
Open Meeting Law with respect to the sufficiency of the meeting notice"). Second, the 
complaint alleges that the food bank donors must be listed in the notice. Unlike a topic such 
as annual license renewals which requires a public body's approval, and therefore the specific 
applicants should be listed on the notice, see OML 2017-33, we find that a topic, listed under 
"Consent Agenda," which does not require the Board's discussion and/or approval, but is 
listed instead as a perfunctory administrative task, such detail is not required. Further, the 
Board attached the list of donors to the meeting minutes, though we note that Open Meeting 
Law does not require it to be attached, but rather listed in the minutes as a document used by 
the Board during the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22. Third, the remaining topics provided 
the public with sufficient information and reflected the actual discussions held during the 
meeting. A notice need not include every detail about an anticipated discussion; rather, the 
law requires that a notice to list topics with "sufficient specificity" so that the public can 
decide whether to attend the meeting and observe the discussion regarding that topic. See 940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2018-7. 
However, as the Board conceded in its response, by listing the name of the company, 
Trichome, without any reference to the specific topic concerning the company, the Board 
failed to provide the public with a sufficient understanding of the anticipated discussion. See 
OML 2017-187. We therefore find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
commend the Board for taking remedial action in response to the complaint by noticing and 
holding another discussion of this topic during its October 4 meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to include sufficient detail on its September 19 meeting notice. We order the 
Board's immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that 
similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Si ncerely, 
A 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Stephen Morgan 
Ashland Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 