===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 5, 2016 
OML 2016-101 
Adam Cederbaum, Chief of Government Services 
City of Boston Law Department 
City Hall, Room 615 
Boston, MA 02201 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Cederbaum: 
This office received a complaint from Shirley Kressel, dated March 21, 2016, alleging 
that the Boston City Council (the "Council") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Council on January 4, 2016, and, after an 
extension of time was granted by this office, the Council responded by letter dated February 10, 
2016. In her complaint, Ms. Kressel alleges that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by: 
(i) deliberating outside of a noticed meeting; (ii) discussing a topic during a meeting that was not 
listed on the meeting notice; and (iii) creating inaccurate meeting minutes.1 
Following our review, we find that the Council did discuss a topic that had not been listed 
on a meeting notice, but did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the other 
allegations. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Council's 
response, and the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed all 
documents provided with these filings, including the notices and minutes of Council meetings 
held on August 6 and December 9, 2015. 
We find the facts as follows. The Council is a 13-member public body, thus seven 
members constitute a quorum. This complaint concerns the transfer of a parcel of land, located 
1 The complaint also alleges that the Council failed to post or publicly distribute documents used by the Council 
during its August 6 and December 9, 2015 meetings and exceeded its authority in approving a property transfer. 
Even if true, these allegations would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. As 
such, we decline to review them. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of 
Commissioners). 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
at 115 Federal Street in Boston, to the Public Facilities Commission (the "PFC").2 The 115 
Federal Street property currently houses a four-story parking garage that was declared 
structurally unsound in 2013 and has not been in use since. Because of this property's desirable 
location in downtown Boston, the City intended to sell or lease the property. To this end, the 
City devised a process whereby the PFC would transfer the property to the Boston 
Redevelopment Authority (the "BRA"), which would then sell or lease the property with 
proceeds returning to the City. 
On December 3, 2014, the PFC voted to transfer the property at issue to the BRA. On 
May 19, 2015, the complainant informed the City of Boston Law Department of a provision in 
the Boston City Charter requiring the Council to transfer the property to the PFC prior to any 
transfer to the BRA. 
On June 3, 2015, Boston Mayor Martin J. Walsh sent a letter to the Council that read, in 
part, as follows; 
I submit herewith and recommend that you approve an Order to declare surplus a certain 
parcel of land located at 115 Federal Street... and to transfer the care, custody, 
management and control of said property to the Public Facilities Commission [. ] 
On June 10, 2015, the Council referred the matter to its Committee on Economic 
Development, Planning and Labor (the "Committee"), which is chaired by Councilor Salvatore 
LaMattina. The Committee held a hearing on June 15, 2015 to discuss the 115 Federal Street 
property.3 During this hearing, the BRA chair stated that the City would receive all proceeds 
from the sale or lease of the property, although the details of where proceeds would go were not 
firmly settled. After this hearing. City staff and BRA staff began drafting a Memorandum of 
Agreement (the "MOA") formalizing the agreement that the City would receive any proceeds 
from the sale or lease. On June 17, 2015, the staff members who had drafted the MOA sent it to 
Councilor LaMattina. On June 18, 2015, Councilor LaMattina sent copies of the draft MOA by 
e-mail to all other Council members. 
On June 23, 2015, the complainant sought information from various Councilors regarding 
the status of the 115 Federal Street property. On this date, both Councilor LaMattina and 
Councilor Mark Ciommo stated to the complainant that they were working with colleagues to 
"fine tune" the MOA.4 
On August 6, 2015, the Council held a meeting described as a "working session" to 
discuss the 115 Federal Street property. This meeting was properly noticed to the public, and 
eleven Councilors attended. During this meeting. Councilors raised concerns regarding the draft 
agreement between the City and the BRA. Because of these concerns, following the August 6, 
2015 hearing. City and BRA staff made revisions to the MOA. On November 23, 2015, City 
staff sent a revised MOA to Councilor LaMattina. 
2 Appointed by the Mayor, the PFC is a board that oversees the construction and alteration of municipal buildings. 
3 Several members of the public spoke at the June 15, 2015 hearing. 
4 The complainant spoke with Councilor LaMattina by telephone and corresponded with Councilor Ciommo by e-
mail. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
On December 7, 2015, the Council posted notice of a meeting to take place on December 
9, 2015. The issue of the 115 Federal Street property was not listed on the notice. On December 
8, 2015, Councilor LaMattina, as chair of the Committee, believed the MOA to be in acceptable 
shape for presentation to the other Councilors. On this same day. City staff distributed the draft 
copies of the MOA to all Councilors for review. The meeting notice was not amended to include 
this topic. 
The Council convened the December 9, 2015 meeting as planned. During this meeting, 
the matter of the 115 Federal Street property was pulled from what are called "Green Sheets." 
The term "Green Sheets" refers to a list of pending matters awaiting action by the Council, 
including those that have been assigned to various committees for review. The City Clerk, who 
is not a member of the Council, introduced the matter of the 115 Federal Street property, stating 
that there had been "three or four" working sessions on the project. Ultimately, the Council 
approved the transfer by a vote of 10-3. The order executed following this vote reads as follows: 
"[T]he Parcel located at 115 Federal Street... is hereby found with be surplus... and the care, 
custody, management and control thereof is hereby transferred to the Public Facilities 
Commission." The minutes of the December 9, 2015 meeting state that the Council voted to 
transfer the property to the PFC. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Council did not Deliberate Outside of an Open Meeting to Discuss the 115 
Federal Street Property. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be noticed and open to 
the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a), (b). A "meeting" is "a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is "an 
oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. For the 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is the simple majority of the member of a public 
body. Id. 
The complaint alleges that the Council deliberated outside of a noticed meeting in 
deciding to approve the transfer of the 115 Federal Street property to the PFC, and that the 
discussion during the December 9, 2015 meeting was a mere ratification of this earlier decision. 
As evidence, the complaint points to the statements from Councilors LaMattina and Ciommo on 
June 23, 2015 that they were working with colleagues to "fine tune" the MOA. She also points 
to the clerk's statement during the December 9, 2015 meeting that the Council had met three or 
four times to discuss the matter. We find no evidence that a quorum of the Council deliberated 
outside of a noticed meeting. Rather, preparation of the MOA was done by staff members who 
were not Councilors. Because this work did not constitute deliberation by the Council, we find 
no violation with respect to this allegation. See OML 2016-22.^ 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
II, The Council Violated the Open Meeting Law by Discussing a Matter that was Not 
Listed on the Meeting Notice. 
A public body, such as the Council, must post notice of a meeting at least 48 hours in 
advance, including a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics on a notice with 
"sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(1 )(b); OML 2014-47. While public bodies may discuss a topic not 
listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the 
meeting, we encourage postponement of discussion of such items until proper notice can be 
given to the public. See OML 2013-87; OML 2013-13. 
Here, the 115 Federal Street property had been discussed at previous Council meetings. 
This was a longstanding project, not an emergency that arose just before the meeting. We have 
concluded that such matters, when they have previously come before a public body, are 
reasonably anticipated by the chair and may be discussed during a meeting only if they are listed 
on a meeting notice. See OML 2014-117. Members of the public who may have been interested 
in this issue did not have proper notice that it would be discussed and possibly acted upon on that 
day. Indeed, the Council's practice of selecting matters from the Green Sheets to discuss without 
including notice of that discussion on the meeting agenda ahead of time does not comply with 
the Open Meeting Law. Matters on the Green Sheets have previously come before the Council 
for consideration. Therefore, further discussion can be reasonably anticipated and the Open 
Meeting Law requires the Council to include such items on the meeting notice. Id. For these 
reasons, we conclude that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing the 115 
Federal Street property during the December 9, 2015 meeting without first including that topic in 
the meeting notice. 
III. The Committee's December 9, 2015 Meeting Minutes are Sufficiently Accurate. 
Under the Open Meeting Law, a public body must create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary 
of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes. G.L. c. 
3OA, § 22(a). When reviewing meeting minutes, we look for substantial compliance with the 
accuracy requirement. See OML 2013-64. The minutes should contain enough detail and 
accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes 
and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See id. 
The complaint alleges that the Council created inaccurate minutes of its December 9, 
2015 meeting by describing the action taken with respect to the 115 Federal Street property as a 
vote to transfer the property to the PFC. Instead, the complaint contends that the minutes should 
describe the vote as an approval of the MOA. Because the minutes accurately reflect the 
substance of the order executed following the vote, we find that the minutes of the December 19, 
2015 meeting are sufficiently specific. See OML 2016-42. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law 
with respect to one of the three allegations, specifically by discussing a topic that had not been 
listed on the meeting notice. We order the Council's immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. Please 
feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Shirley Rressel 
Boston City Council 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. e. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
5 