===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
March 19, 2012 
OML 2012-21 
Katharine Doyle, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch St. 
Boston, MA 02110 
Re: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Doyle: 
This office received a complaint from Jeffrey Bennett, dated November 29, 2010, alleging 
that the Templeton Conservation Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on or about 
October 21, 2010, and the Commission responded to the original complaint by letter dated 
November 5, 2010. In his complaint, Mr. Bennett alleges that the Commission failed to post notice 
for and allow public access to a meeting held on October 20, 2010. 
We reviewed the October 21, 2010 complaint filed with the Commission; the November 29, 
2010 complaint filed with our office; the Commission's November 5, 2010 response; and, on 
February 9, 2012, we interviewed Commission members Jo-Anne Burdin and Irwin Hendricken by 
telephone. 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
FACTS  
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. 
The Commission is a seven member body. On October 20, 2010, after attending a portion of 
a meeting of the Templeton Board of Selectmen, three members of the Commission — Shaun 
Grimley, Dave Symonds, and Ms. Burdin — left that meeting and went into another room in the 
same building. The three members then engaged in what appears to have been a social conversation 
among acquaintances, largely concerning the matter of heating homes with wood. At some point, a 
member of the public tried to enter the room and was turned away. Subsequently, a fourth member 
of the Commission, Mr. Hendricken, arrived to pick up Ms. Burdin. Although a quorum of the 
Commission was present at that time, the Commission's response states that no Commission 
business was discussed, and we have not been presented with any evidence to the contrary. Both 
C) 
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Hendricken and Ms. Burdin stated during our telephone conversations that Mr. Hendricken 
never entered the room where the other three members were, but only came to the door to tell Ms. 
Burdin that he was ready to leave, at which point she and Mr. Hendricken left. The entire exchange 
lasted about 30 seconds, and it appears that at no point were matters relating to the business of the 
Commission discussed. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice at least 48 hours before any 
meeting of that body, and that all meetings be open to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a), (b). A 
"meeting" is defined, for purposes of the Open Meeting Law, as "a deliberation by a public body 
with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction..." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. "Deliberation" is 
defined, in relevant part, as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id. 
Based on the facts provided, it does not appear that a meeting of the Commission occurred 
on October 20, 2010, therefore there was no requirement that the Commission post notice for or 
allow public attendance at their discussion on that date. During the period before Mr. Hendricken 
arrived, only three members of the Commission were present. Because this was less than a quorum 
of the seven member body, and the conversation did not involve matters within the body's 
jurisdiction, their discussion did not constitute a deliberation. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. With regard 
to the approximately thirty second period during which Mr. Hendricken was present, while a 
quorum was present, there appears to have been no discussion of matters within the Commission's 
jurisdiction at that time. Because this brief conversation also did not constitute deliberation, there 
was no requirement that the Commission post notice for or hold an open meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or the 
Commission. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this 
letter to be inaccurate. 
Amy L. Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Jeffrey Bennett 
Templeton Conservation Commission 
Lisa Mead, Esq. 
2 