===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 5, 2016 
OML 2016-47 
Alice Pizzi, General Counsel 
Soldiers' Home in Holyoke 
110 Cherry Street 
Holyoke, MA 01040 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Pizzi: 
This office received a complaint from David Bartley, dated November 5, 2015, alleging 
that the Board of Trustees of the Soldiers' Home in Holyoke (the "Board") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3 OA, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that: (i) the Board 
failed to follow proper procedures for entering executive session during its June 2 and June 23, 
2015 meetings, and that (ii) during those two meetings the Board conducted business in 
executive session that was not appropriate for executive session. The complaint was originally 
filed with the Board on June 30, 2015. The Board responded by letter dated August 27, 2015, 
following an extension of time granted by our office. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the ways 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Board, the 
Board's response, and the complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed the 
executive session minutes of the Board's June 2 and June 23, 2015 meetings. Finally, we spoke 
with the complainant by telephone on January 5, 2016, and with Board Chair Steven Como by 
telephone on January 5, 2016. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. A structure on property located at 193 Fairmont St. in 
Holyoke encroached on land belonging to the Soldiers' Home. In 2014, the Legislature passed 
legislation authorizing the Commissioner of the Division of Capital Asset Management to 
convey the small parcel of land belonging to the Soldiers' Home to the owner of the property at 
193 Fairmont St. See St. 2014, c. 238. Division of Capital Asset Management subsequently 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
requested that the Board complete a form and declare the parcel surplus so that the Division 
could transfer the land. 
The Board held a meeting on June 2, 2015, at which it entertained public comment 
regarding the status of the land adjacent to the property at 193 Fairmont St. Following some 
discussion, the Board voted by roll call to enter executive session at the end of the meeting to 
further discuss the issue. The Chair did not state or identify an executive session purpose to 
justify the discussion, nor did he state that an open session discussion would have a detrimental 
effect on the Board's negotiating position. While in executive session, the Board discussed 
whether to declare the land at issue as surplus land so that it could be conveyed to the property 
owner of 193 Fairmont St.1 Board members shared their concerns about the fair market value of 
the parcel, and wanted more information about the encroachment before making a final decision. 
Following this discussion, the Board considered a motion to declare the parcel surplus, which 
failed by a vote of 3-3. 
The Board held another meeting on June 23, 2015 and again voted to enter into executive 
session to discuss the property adjacent to 193 Fairmont St. The Chair did not state or identify an 
executive session pmpose to justify the discussion, nor did he state that an open session 
discussion would have a detrimental effect on the Board's negotiating position. During the 
executive session. Board members shared their concern that declaring the entire parcel surplus 
was more than what was necessary to remove the encroachment. The Board considered another 
motion to declare the parcel surplus, which again failed by a vote of 3-3. The Board voted one 
more time on the motion, and this time it failed by a vote of 2-4. Immediately following the 
executive session, the Board informed the owner of 193 Fairmont St. of its decision not to 
declare the land surplus. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Board Failed to Follow the Proper Procedure for Entering into Executive Session 
during its June 2 and June 23. 2015 Meetings. 
A public body may meet in executive—or closed—session for any of ten enumerated 
purposes. One such purpose allows a public body to meet in executive session to "consider the 
purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may 
have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) 
("Purpose 6"). Prior to entering into executive session, the Chair must state the purpose for the 
executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose 
for which the executive session was called. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). The chair must also 
publicly announce whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive 
session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(4). 
Here, the Board Chair failed to state the pmpose for the executive sessions prior to the 
Board entering into the executive sessions. On both occasions, it appears that the Board intended 
1 The Board has publicly released the minutes of its June 2 and June 23, 2015 executive sessions, and provided 
copies to the complainant on July 23, 2015. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
to consider the value of real property. Thus, we infer that the Board intended to enter into 
executive session under Purpose 6. However, the Chair also failed to state that "an open meeting 
may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the [Board]," as required by Purpose 
6. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6). These failures violated the Open Meeting Law. In its response to the 
complaint, the Board acknowledged that the Chair failed to make these declarations prior to 
entering into executive session. 
2. The Board's June 2 and June 23. 2015 Executive Session Discussions were Not 
Appropriate for Executive Session. 
Purpose 6 permits a public body to meet in executive session to "consider the purchase, 
exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6). 
While in executive session, the Board discussed the value of a parcel of land and whether or not 
to declare it surplus for the purpose selling the land to the owner of 193 Fairmont St. The Board 
contends that it had a negotiating position to protect because it needed to survey the property 
lines, consider whether a smaller lot could be designated as surplus, and determine whether 
alternatives were available to the property owner of 193 Fairmont St., such as a local variance or 
transfer of less than the full parcel. 
The Board certainly considered the value of property during the two executive sessions at 
issue, but did not have a clear negotiating position to protect. See G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(a)(6). The 
Board was not engaged in negotiation with the owner of 193 Fairmont St. over the parcel. 
Rather, the Board was considering a request by the Division of Capital Asset Management to 
declare the parcel surplus. During the meetings, the Board discussed the matter with the 
property owner in open session, entered into executive session to consider designating the parcel 
as surplus, and then immediately communicated its vote to the owner after making its final 
decision. The Board did not discuss terms that were subject to any negotiation.2 It discussed the 
need to survey the boundaries of the parcel at issue and voted whether to designate it as surplus. 
This discussion and vote should have occurred in open session, as doing so would not have 
harmed the Board's negotiating position. Because the executive sessions were not proper under 
Purpose 6, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to follow the proper-
procedures for entering into executive session during its June 2 and June 23, 2015 meetings, and 
discussed topics that were not appropriate for executive session during those meetings. We order 
the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Law, and caution the Board that a similar, 
future violation may be considered evidence of an intentional violation of the Law. Because the 
Board has already publicly released the minutes of its executive sessions, we order no additional 
remedial action. 
2 While it is our understanding that the Soldiers' Home would receive fair market value for the land, this issue was 
not discussed during either meeting at issue. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve 
any other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Board. Please feel free to 
contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
cc: David Bartley, Esq. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 