===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
May 18,2016 
OML 2016-63 
Frances Parks, Chair 
Cotuit Fire District Prudential Committee 
P.O. Box 1475 
Cotuit, MA 02635 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Parks: 
This office received a complaint from Amy McGuire Kates, dated April 4, 2016, alleging 
that the Cotuit Fire District Prudential Committee Union Negotiation Subcommittee (the 
"Subcommittee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Subcommittee on March 14, 2016, and the Subcommittee responded by 
letter dated March 30, 2016. In her complaint, Ms. Kates alleges that a quorum of the 
Subcommittee deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged in the complaint. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Subcommittee's response, and the request for further review filed with our office. We spoke 
with Subcommittee member Frances Parks by telephone on April 26, 2016, and we spoke with 
Subcommittee member Richard Pisano by telephone on May 9, 2016.1 
We find the facts as follows. The Subcommittee consists of three members: Thomas 
Hadley, Chair of the Board of Fire Commissioners; Richard Pisano, member of the Board of Fire 
Commissioners; and Frances Parks, Chair of the Fire District Prudential Committee. On March 
2, 2016, the Board of Fire Commissioners posted notice of a meeting to be held on March 8, 
2016. Among the anticipated discussion topics listed on this notice was an executive session: 
"Discuss Union Negotiations." 
On March 7, 2016, Fire Chief Christopher Olsen met with Ms. Parks at the Fire Station. 
Along with Mr. Pisano, who participated by telephone, Ms. Parks and the Fire Chief spoke with 
the Subcommittee's legal counsel. No notice of this discussion was posted. The discussion 
' For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
concerned an upcoming labor negotiation. The Subcommittee's legal counsel explained how the 
process would work and who would participate. Ms. Parks and Mr. Pisano asked questions on 
these topics. 
The Board of Fire Commissioners held its meeting on March 8, 2016 as planned. 
However, the Board did not enter executive session, stating that "there was no need at this time." 
On March 9, Ms. Parks and Mr. Pisano met with Fire Chief Olsen at the Fire Station. The 
puipose of this discussion was to clarify information that the Fire Chief was assembling to 
present to the Subcommittee's legal counsel. The Fire Chief also gave Ms. Parks and Mr. Pisano 
information on firefighter contracts. Ms. Parks and Mr. Pisano asked questions about this topic. 
Again, no notice was posted regarding this discussion. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law is designed to eliminate "much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as "a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A 
"deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority 
of the members of the public body." Id. 
The complaint alleges that the March 9, 2016 discussion at the Fire Station violated the 
Open Meeting Law. Indeed, a quorum of the Subcommittee—that is, two out of the three 
members—discussed a matter within the Subcommittee's jurisdiction. This discussion meets the 
definition of deliberation, see G.L. c. 30A, § 18, and the discussion should therefore have taken 
place during a properly noticed meeting. That the March 9, 2016 discussion took place in an 
unnoticed closed session violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2015-186.2 
Further, we note that the discussions at issue may have been appropriate for executive 
session. The Open Meeting Law permits a public body to convene in executive session to 
conduct collective bargaining sessions or to discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2), (3). However, in order to convene in executive session, 
the Subcommittee would need to first post notice of a meeting and convene in open session. See 
G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 20(b), 21(b). 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting 
Law. We order the Subcommittee's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
2 We recognize that the March 7, 2016 discussion was not part of the original complaint filed with the 
Subcommittee. Rather, it was disclosed in the Subcommittee's response to the complaint. As such, we note that the 
discussion that took place on March 7, 2016 also meetings the Open Meeting Law's definition of deliberation, and 
we remind the Subcommittee of its obligations under the law. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to 
violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this detennination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Subcommittee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Amy McGuire Kates 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 