===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
 
       May 22, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 89 
 
 
Kenneth J. Rossetti, Esq. 
City Solicitor 
City of Methuen 
41 Pleasant Street 
Methuen, MA 01844 
 
By email only: krossetti@ci.methuen.ma.us 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Rossetti: 
 
This office received a complaint from Robert DeFusco on December 8, 2022, alleging 
that the Methuen City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Council on November 6, 2022, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Council, by letter dated December 7, 2022, following an extension of 
time granted by this office.  The complaint alleges that the Council entered into executive session 
for an improper purpose on November 7, 2022.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Council’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review.  We also reviewed the notice and open and executive session minutes of the Council 
meeting held on November 7, 2022, as well as a video recording of that meeting.
1   
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 A video recording of the Council meeting held on November 7, 2022, can be found at https://methuen-
ma.viebit.com/player.php?hash=cgaZOlq7EjEL. 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On November 2, 2022, at 10:37 A.M., the Council posted 
notice for a meeting to be held on Monday, November 7 at 7:00 P.M.  The notice included 16 
open session topics and one executive session topic.  Specifically, the executive session was “in 
accordance with Exemption 4 . . . in order to discuss the deployment of security personnel or 
devices or strategies with respect thereto; and in particular, to review and approve two contracts 
in the amounts of $119,555 (C-23-37) and $342,638 (C-23-38) for the provision of safety and 
security measures to various public buildings in the City of Methuen – public discussion of 
which may be reasonably likely to harm the safety and security of said buildings.”  The notice 
further identified the two contracts (C-23-37 and C-23-38) as involving Window Film Depot, 
Inc., 25 Montvale Road in Woburn.  
 
The November 7, 2022, meeting was held as planned.  After discussing the open session 
topics, Chair David Beauregard announced that the Council would convene in executive session 
and then read the purpose as it was stated on the notice.  He also announced that the Council 
would reconvene in open session at the conclusion of the executive session and the Council then 
approved a unanimous vote by roll call to convene in executive session.  Because the Council 
has not publicly released the minutes of this executive session, we do not recount their content in 
detail here.  However, after our in camera review of the minutes, we note that the Council 
discussed the location and installation of specific security devices and measures in various 
school buildings throughout the district.  
 
At the conclusion of the executive session, the Council reconvened in open session and 
Chair Beauregard announced that the Council unanimously voted to approve the following 
contracts: C-23-37 in the amount of $119,555.00 to Window Film Depot, 25 Montvale Road, 
Woburn, MA “for IFB23.01 – Installation of Safety and Security Film (Districtwide)” and C-23-
38 in the amount of $342,638 to Window Film Depot, 25 Montvale Road, Woburn, MA 01801 
“for MHEC State Contract MC14-E05 Installation of Defense Lite Security Panels and Bullet 
Shield Panels LVL3.” 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, unless an executive session is convened.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 
21(a).  A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that 
the purpose for the executive session has been stated in open session, that a majority of members 
of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is recorded by 
roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether the open 
session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see 
also OML 2014-94. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
One permissible reason to convene in executive session is “to discuss the deployment of 
security personnel or devices, or strategies with respect thereto.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(4).  
Purpose 4 enables a public body to discuss privately those matters involving public safety or the 
security of public property when it believes that publicly disclosing security measures would 
compromise their effectiveness.  Here, the Council discussed the location and installation of 
specific security devices and measures by Window Film Depot in various school buildings 
throughout the district.  We find that the discussions during the executive session meeting held 
on November 7, 2022, were appropriate under Purpose 4 as they related to the security of the 
City’s schools and the safety of teachers and students in those schools.  See OML 2021-80; OML 
2017-77. 
 
In his request for further review, the complainant suggests that the Council used the 
executive session “to illegally withhold public information,” namely the two contracts with 
Window Film Depot.  We note that on November 4, 2022, the complainant requested that the 
Council release the two contracts and other procurement details related to the contracts that the 
Council planned to discuss during the November 7, 2022, executive session meeting.  The 
Council provided copies of responsive records in redacted form on November 10, 2022.  The 
Open Meeting Law does not govern a public body’s response to a request for records other than 
meeting minutes.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 22(c), (e); OML Declination 8-19-13 (Southwick Board 
of Selectmen).  Moreover, the Open Meeting Law states that the minutes of any executive 
session, and all documents and exhibits used during an executive session, may be withheld from 
disclosure to the public in their entirety, “as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes 
of the executive session, but no longer.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f).  When the purpose for a valid 
executive session has been served, the minutes and documents and exhibits used at the session 
must be disclosed unless an exemption to the Public Records Law applies to withhold them, in 
whole or in part, from disclosure.  Id.   
 
We do not review, here, whether the purpose for the executive session has been served 
such that the minutes and documents used during that session may be disclosed because that 
allegation was not clearly raised in the original complaint, and we decline to review an allegation 
that was not included within the original complaint to the Council because the Council has not 
had an opportunity to respond to it.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3).  Nonetheless, 
any allegations that the Council improperly withheld or redacted documents, other than minutes, 
concerns a potential violation of the Public Records Law, rather than the Open Meeting Law.  
The Division of Open Government’s authority concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law 
only, and we offer no opinion on whether any actions by the Council could be a violation of 
some other law, such as the Public Records Law, outside the scope of the Division’s review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
We find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law by meeting in executive 
session on November 7, 2022, to discuss the security and safety of the City’s schools and staff.  
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Robert DeFusco – By email only:  
Methuen City Council c/o Council Clerk Linda Gagnon – By email only: 
LMGagnon@ci.methuen.ma.us 
Methuen Town Clerk – By email only: cityclerk@ci.methuen.ma.us 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
