===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON , M ASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 24, 2014 
OML 2014-30 
Naomi Stonberg, Esq. 
Brody, Hardoon, Perkins & Kesten, LLP 
One Exeter Plaza 
699 Boylston St. 
Boston, MA 02116 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Stonberg: 
This office received two complaints from Mr. Richard Boroff, dated November 18, 2013 
and February 20, 2014, respectively, alleging that the Hamilton-Wenham Regional School 
Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
Specifically, the complaints allege that the Committee met in executive session for an improper 
purpose on September 5, 2013, and that the Committee did not release the minutes from that 
executive session in a timely manner. The complaints were originally filed with the Committee 
on or about September 23, 2013 and December 5, 2013, and the Committee responded by letters 
dated October 3, 2013 and February 11, 2014, respectively.' 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the September 23, 2013 and December 5, 2013 
complaints filed with the Committee; the Committee's October 3, 2013 and February 11, 2014 
responses; and the November 18, 2013 and February 20, 2014 complaints filed with this office. 
Additionally, we reviewed a redacted version of the Committee's September 5, 2013 executive 
session minutes, and spoke with you by telephone on December 5, 2013 regarding the November 
18, 2013 complaint. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing topics during its September 5, 2013 meeting that were not appropriate for executive 
session and by failing to release the minutes of that meeting in a timely fashion. However, we do 
' We remind the Committee that, unless our office grants an extension, a public body must respond within 14 
business days of receipt of a complaint, send a copy of the complaint to our office, and notify us of any remedial 
action taken. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
O 
===PAGE 2===
not find either violation to be intentional and we commend the Committee for acknowledging the 
latter violation and adopting a policy intended to prevent similar violations in the future. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee posted a notice for a September 5, 2013 
meeting that listed nine topics for discussion. One topic read, "Vote to Adjourn Into Executive 
Session for the purpose of discussing Nurses Contract Negotiations and Teaching Assistants['] 
and Cafeteria Workers' Hourly Rates and not to return to open session." During the September 
5, 2013 meeting, the Committee entered into executive session "for the purpose of discussing 
requests regarding the Nurses Contract, Cafeteria Workers and Teaching Assistants." 
According to the redacted executive session minutes, the Committee first discussed a 
request related to nurses, a group that is represented by a collective bargaining unit. The 
Committee then discussed the following two topics concerning groups not represented by a 
union: 
2. Cafeteria Workers. 
The committee discussed a request from [Cafeteria Director] Catherine Donovan to 
approve a small increase in the rate of pay for cafeteria workers, consistent with a plan 
that had been developed and followed in prior years to bring the cafeteria workers pay up 
to market level. The committee approved this action.4 
3. Teaching Assistants. 
The committee discussed the issue of a pay raise for teachings assistants. [REDACTED]. 
The market data showed that IIWRSD TAs are paid significantly above market average. 
The committee discussed a number of options for realigning TA pay with market. The 
committee decided to keep TA wages flat, but to ask Dr. Harvey to do additional market 
research to ascertain a better understanding of how HWRSD TA wages compare to 
market. 
At its next meeting, on September 19, 2013, the Committee discussed these matters in 
open session and voted to approve a one percent increase for the cafeteria workers for the 2013-
2014 school year. The Committee also voted to approve the open session minutes of its 
September 5, 2013 meeting on this date. 
Mr. Boroff requested a copy of the minutes of the Committee's September 5, 2013 
executive session meeting via emails sent the Board chair, the Superintendent, and the 
Administrative Assistant to the Superintendent on September 8, 2013 and on November 7, 12, 
and 14, 2013. According to Mr. Boroff, he did not receive a response to these requests prior to 
2 We remind the Committee that the Attorney General's regulations also require that the date and time that the notice 
is posted be conspicuously recorded thereon or therewith. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
3 While the subject of the executive session discussion was clear from the notice topic, the Committee should state 
the specific executive session purpose upon which it is relying before entering into executive session. 
4 We remind the Committee that any actions or approvals taken in executive session must be recorded as roll-call 
votes. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(b). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
filing his complaint. The September 5, 2013 executive session minutes were approved during 
the Committee's November 25, 2013 open session meeting, and were publicly released with 
redactions on November 26, 2013. The Committee provided the minutes to Mr. Boroff on or 
about that date. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law permits a public body to enter executive—or closed—session for 
any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Among those purposes are Purpose 2, 
"[tjo conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to 
conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel," and 
Purpose 3, "[tjo discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body 
and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(2), (3). 
The Committee did not state the statutory purpose under which it held its September 5, 
2013 executive session discussion, but we infer from its statements that its intent was to rely 
upon Purpose 2 and Purpose 3. The Committee's discussions regarding the cafeteria workers 
and teaching assistants did not fall under either executive session purpose, however.5 The 
cafeteria workers and teaching assistants are not represented by a collective bargaining unit, so 
discussions regarding their compensation cannot fall under the executive session purpose with 
respect to collective bargaining. Furthermore, there has been no suggestion that discussing these 
nonunion personnel wages could have a detrimental effect on the Committee's strategy with 
respect to ongoing negotiations with employee unions. See Attorney General v. School 
Committee of Taunton, 7 Mass. App. Ct. 226, 230 (1979)(holding that a school committee 
properly used executive session to decide to freeze the wages of certain nonunion personnel, 
because the school committee demonstrated that the discussion could have had a detrimental 
effect on ongoing negotiations with employee unions). Thus, executive session Purpose 3 did 
not apply. 
Purpose 2 was also inapplicable because the Committee's consideration of pay raises for 
cafeteria workers and teaching assistants was not part of a strategy session in preparation for, or 
contract negotiations with, nonunion personnel. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2). Although cafeteria 
workers and teaching assistants are nonunion personnel, the Committee was not engaged in 
negotiations or discussing its strategy with respect to upcoming negotiation of nonunion 
employment contracts. Rather, the Committee was considering general compensation policy 
with respect to the rate of pay for these two groups of employees. This type of discussion is akin 
to a budget discussion and is not appropriate under executive session Purpose 2. See OML 
2013-91 ("While a public body may discuss the contract of specific non-union personnel or 
discuss a collective bargaining agreement in executive session, general compensation policy 
must be discussed in open session").6 Because there was no contract negotiation with nonunion 
personnel, this discussion should have been done in public view. 
5 There does not appear to be any of the ten executive session purposes that would apply to this discussion. 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
wvvw.mass.gov/ago/openmeetmg. See also the section of the Attorney General's website that includes Frequently 
Asked Questions pertaining to the Open Meeting Law: 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Regarding the Committee's executive session minutes, the minutes may be withheld from 
disclosure to the public "as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive 
session, but no longer." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). Public bodies have an obligation to review the 
minutes of executive sessions at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of 
minutes is warranted and to announce that determination at the next meeting following its 
review. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). However, where the executive session was improper, the 
public body may not withhold the executive session minutes. 
We recognize that the Committee mistakenly understood its executive sessions to have 
been held for proper purposes. Even if the executive session were proper, however, the 
Committee failed to follow the appropriate procedure for reviewing and releasing its minutes. A 
public body must respond to requests for executive session minutes within 10 days. G.L. c. BOA, 
§ 22(g)(2). If the public body has determined, prior to the request, that certain executive session 
minutes should be released, it should respond to the requester directly, notifying him or her of 
the availability of those minutes. OML 2013-99. If the body has determined that executive 
session minutes should remain confidential because publication would defeat the lawful purposes 
of the executive session, it should respond by stating the reason why the minutes continue to be 
withheld. Id. And if, at the time of a request, the public body has not conducted a review of the 
minutes to determine whether continued nondisclosure is warranted, the body must perform such 
a review and release the minutes, if appropriate, no later than its next meeting or within 30 days, 
whichever occurs first. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2); OML 2013-99. In such circumstances, the body 
should still respond to the requestor within 10 days, notifying him or her that it is conducting this 
review. OML 2013-99. 
In the view of the Committee, the executive session minutes requested by Mr. Boroff 
remained confidential on the date of his requests. On the basis of that understanding, the 
Committee acted properly by initiating a review of responsive executive session minutes; 
however, the Committee failed to respond to Mr. Boroff within 10 days, as required by the Open 
Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). The Committee did not communicate the status of 
its review to the Mr. Boroff until he received the minutes on or about November 26, 2013. We 
remind the Committee that, in the future, this communication must occur within 10 days of the 
request. 
We acknowledge that, since this complaint was filed, the Board has developed a process 
where the minutes will be reviewed by counsel within 30 days or prior to its next meeting, 
whichever is sooner. We further acknowledge that the minutes at issue were provided to Mr. 
Boroff, but with redactions. The minutes of an executive session may be withheld from 
disclosure to the public as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of an executive 
session, provided that the executive session was held in compliance with the Open Meeting Law. 
May a public body discuss issues relative to the salary of a public employee in executive session? 
It depends. Discussions of salary issues may only occur in executive session as part of a contract negotiation. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2), (3). Other discussions related to salary, such as a discussion about whether an employee's 
job performance merits a bonus or salary increase, must be conducted in open session. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f)(emphasis added). Because the discussion regarding the cafeteria workers 
and teaching assistants was not appropriate for executive session, we order the Committee to 
release the redacted portions of this discussion within thirty days of receipt of this letter. See id.; 
OML 2014-17. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by meeting in executive 
session for an improper purpose and by failing to respond within 10 days to a request for 
executive session minutes. We do not find these violations to be intentional. We acknowledge 
that the Committee repeated its votes in open session and adopted a new policy to ensure its 
timely review of executive session minutes. Therefore, we order the Committee's immediate 
and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that future similar violations 
may be considered evidence of an intentional violation of the Law. 
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this letter, 
please do not hesitate to contact our office at (617) 963-2540. 
Sincerely, 
Jpilathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Hamilton-Wenham Regional School Committee 
Richard Boroff 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
5 