===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 7, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 –70  
 
 
Kimberly A. Rozak, Esq. 
Mirick O’Connell  
100 Front Street  
Worcester, MA 01608-1477 
 
By email only:  
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Rozak: 
 
This office received two complaints from Tammy Tebo on November 15, 2021, alleging 
that the Leicester School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1  The first complaint was originally filed with the Committee on September 7, 
and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated September 27.  The second 
complaint was filed with the Committee on September 24, and you responded, on behalf of the 
Committee, by letter dated October 14.  The first complaint alleges that the Committee failed to 
timely approve the open and executive session minutes of the meeting held on July 6.  The 
second complaint alleges that the minutes of the Committee’s July 6 executive session meeting 
are insufficiently detailed.   
 
We resolve these matters by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaints, the Committee’s responses to the complaints, the 
complaint filed with our office requesting further review, the notice and open and executive 
session minutes of the Committee meeting held on July 6, the notice and open session minutes of 
the Committee meeting held on September 15, and the executive session minutes of the 
Committee meeting held on October 4.  In addition, we communicated with the complainant on 
January 21, 2022, and March 28, 2022, and with you on March 25, 2022.  We find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged.   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2021.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  All open and executive session meeting 
minutes must be reviewed and approved in a timely manner.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  “Timely 
manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is 
later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.”  940 CMR 29.11; see OML 
2018-48.2  Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next 
meeting.  See OML 2018-67; OML 2017-133.   
 
The first complaint alleges that the Commission failed to timely approve minutes of the 
open and executive session meeting held on July 6.  The Committee concedes that it failed to 
timely approve these minutes as the minutes were not approved until September 15, which was 
not within the later of the next three meetings or 30 days following the July 6 meeting.  See 
OML 2021-155.  As such, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to approve these minutes in a timely manner.  In response to the complaint, the Committee 
provided a copy of the minutes to the complainant and has posted these minutes to the town’s 
website.  Therefore, we order no further remedial action with respect to this complaint. 
 
The second complaint alleges that the July 6 executive session meeting minutes failed to 
include an adequate summary of the discussions that took place during the meeting.  During the 
July 6 meeting, the Committee immediately convened in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2 
to discuss strategy with respect to contract negotiations.3  The original meeting minutes do not 
include any summary of the discussions that occurred during the approximate one-hour executive 
session meeting.  Rather, the minutes only include a list of the motions made, i.e., motion to 
convene in executive session and motion to adjourn from executive session, and the votes taken 
with respect to those motions.  In response to the complaint, the Committee agreed that the 
minutes “as initially prepared, were not adequate.”   
 
During an October 4 meeting, the Committee revised the executive session minutes to 
include the following summary: “Discussion of the employment agreements of employees in the 
central office and any legal impediments, as advised by counsel, to ending their employment 
early in connection with the potential reorganization of the central office.”  While we commend 
the Committee for taking remedial action in response to the complaint, we find that the minutes 
are still insufficiently detailed.  When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, we must determine whether the minutes contain enough detail and accuracy so that a 
member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear 
understanding of what occurred.  See OML 2020-90; OML 2012-106.  While minutes must 
include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes 
do not need to include every remark or opinion presented.  See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55.   
 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
3 We remind the Committee that when convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2, a public body must 
identify the nonunion personnel with whom it will be negotiating, if doing so will not compromi se the lawful 
purpose for secrecy.  See OML 2020-21; OML 2017-53; OML 2016-43. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Here, the revised minutes of the July 6 executive session include a single statement to 
reflect the discussions that occurred during an almost one-hour meeting.  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that meeting minutes include more than a statement that a public body held a discussion 
about a specified topic; the law requires that the minutes summarize the discussions that were 
held.  See OML 2019-167; OML 2018-8.  We find that the minutes do not adequately capture the 
substance of the discussions that occurred so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have an understanding of what occurred.  As such, we find 
that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by approving inaccurate minutes for the 
executive session on July 6.  See OML 2020-53.  Although the Committee has released the 
minutes of the executive session meeting held on July 6 and thus determined that the purpose for 
the executive session has concluded, we note that the Committee may assert an exemption under 
the Public Records Law to redact the minutes, in whole or in part.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f) 
(when the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents 
or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or an 
exemption to the public records law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, from 
disclosure).   
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to timely approve the minutes of the July 6 meeting and failing to include sufficient 
detail in the minutes of the executive session meeting held on July 6.  We order the Committee to 
revise the July 6 executive session meeting minutes and to certify to this office within sixty (60) 
days of the date of this letter that it has done so.  See 940 C.M.R. 29.07(4).  We also order the 
Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that 
similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.   
  
Sincerely, 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Tammy Tebo – By email only:  
 Leicester School Committee c/o Chair Tom Lauder – By email only:    
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
