===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
May 27, 2014 
OML 2014-54 
Brian Riley, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, PC 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
This office received a complaint from Joseph Kaminski, dated November 5, 2013, 
alleging that the Peru Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about 
August 12, 2013, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated October 8, 
2013. In his complaint, Mr. Kaminski alleges that on July 15, 2013; July 22, 2013; July 
29, 2013; and August 5, 2013, the Board convened its meetings earlier than the scheduled 
meeting time and that the Board did not follow the topics on the meeting notices in the 
order posted. In addition, Mr. Kaminski alleges that the Board's minutes from the July 22, 
2013 and July 29, 2013 meetings are inaccurate. 
We reviewed the August 12, 2013 complaint; your October 8, 2013 response to the 
complaint on behalf of the Board; and the November 5, 2013 complaint filed with our 
office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notices and minutes from the 
Board's meetings held on July 15, 2013; July 22, 2013; July 29, 2013; and August 5, 2013; 
and listened to recordings from the Board's meetings held on July 29, 2013 and August 5, 
2013.' Finally, we spoke by telephone with Chair Douglas Haskins. 
1 Starting on December 2, 2013, our office made repeated requests for notices and recordings of certain 
Board meetings, which the Board did not respond to until February 14,2014, providing us with most, but not 
all, of the notices requested (there were no recordings in the Board's possession). We therefore relied 
significantly on materials provided to us by Mr. Kaminski to assist us in resolving this complaint. We 
remind the Board that "[u]pon notification of an investigation, any person, public body or any other state, 
regional, county, municipal or other governmental official or entity who is the subject of an investigation, 
shall make all information necessary to conduct such investigation available to the attorney general." G.L. c. 
30A, § 24(a). A failure to respond to such a request from our office may be considered a violation of the 
Open Meeting Law. 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to comply with notice posting requirements, by failing to include accurate and 
sufficient detail in its meeting minutes, by engaging in deliberation outside of a properly 
posted meeting, and by failing to respond within fourteen business days of receipt of an 
Open Meeting Law complaint. We do not find these violations to be intentional, but rather 
t 2 a serious misunderstanding of the Law's requirements. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body; therefore, 
two members constitute a quorum. Historically, Chair Haskins and another Board 
member, either Verne Leach or Edward Richards,3 would arrive at the Board's meeting 
location early in order to review and file documents such as correspondence, payment 
warrants, and vendor invoices. The two members might briefly discuss correspondence 
received by the Board, but generally would not vote on or sign anything prior to the 
meeting, though they would sometimes approve meeting minutes. The Board would 
typically include a summary of these discussions in its meeting minutes as though they had 
occurred during the meeting. 
As an example, prior to the July 22, 2013 Board meeting, Mr. Richards informed 
Chair Haskins that he had ordered a new front entrance door for Town Hall. This 
discussion was reflected in the meeting minutes as being discussed during the meeting. As 
another example, during the July 29, 2013 meeting, Mr. Richards explained that the first 
discussion item described in the minutes from the July 22, 2013 meeting, "[r]eceived two 
checks from Sayers- $103.50 and $135.50- Metal dumpster," was not actually discussed 
during the meeting. Rather, the Board listed this item in the minutes to document the fact 
that the Board received these checks. Also, on July 29, 2013, the Board approved prior 
meeting minutes before the meeting commenced. When Mr. Kaminski asked during the 
meeting whether prior meeting minutes would be approved, as indicated on the meeting 
notice, the Board responded that it was already done, explaining that it tries to "get that 
stuff out of the way before everyone shows up." The minutes of the Board's July 29, 2013 
meeting also describe certain discussion topics that were not discussed during the meeting, 
such as the Board's receipt of documents from the Assessor and the Fire Department. 
The Board's August 5, 2013 minutes also include details that were not discussed 
during that meeting. The Board commenced its August 5, 2013 meeting by noting that it 
had received a letter but did not identify who the sender was or the details of the letter. 
The meeting minutes, however, describe a letter from Department of Transportation 
regarding "Chap. 90 funds for FY 2014," noting "this leaves the town [seventy-three 
thousand and two hundred and seventy two] short of what was promised." 4 The Board 
2 This was the first of five complaints that we received against the Board, Since this complaint was filed, we 
have observed the Board's improved compliance with the Open Meeting Law. 
3 Mr. Richards resigned from the Board in August 2013, 
4 These minutes are in handwritten form. While there is no requirement that meeting minutes be typed, they 
should be legible. Additionally, we note than these minutes indicate that they were approved on August 12, 
2013, however the Board did not meet on that day. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
went on to mention an individual, "Scott," but the Board could not recall his last name. 
The meeting minutes describe the discussion as follows: "Lauren [unreadable] asked about 
compost toilet for church. Gave him Scott [unreadable] name from [unreadable] Public 
Health." 
Discrepancies also exist between the actual and recorded start and end times for 
several of the Board's meetings. The notice for the Board's July 29, 2013 meeting stated 
that the meeting would begin at 6 P.M. The meeting minutes state, however, that the 
meeting began at 7 P.M. Furthermore, though the minutes state that this meeting ended at 
9:15 P.M., it appears from the recording that the meeting lasted only about fifty minutes. 
The notice for the Board's August 5, 2013 meeting also stated that the meeting would 
begin at 6 P.M. While the meeting minutes do not record when the meeting actually 
began, they state that the meeting ended at 9; 15 P.M., although it appears from the 
recording that this meeting also lasted only about fifty minutes. 
The complaint also noted the Board's practice of discussing matters prior to the 
designated times listed in the meeting notice. For instance, the notice for the Board's July 
29, 2013 meeting listed certain items for discussion at 6 P.M. and other items for 
discussion at 7 P.M. At one point during the meeting, when Mr. Kaminski asked if the 
Board generally takes a break and waits until 7 P.M. to continue with the items listed for 
that time on the meeting notice, the Board responded that they just continue with the 
discussion. Similarly, the notice for the Board's August 5, 2013 meeting, posted on 
August 2, 2013, listed the following topics for discussion at 6 P.M.: "1. Call to Order; 2. 
Roll Call; 3. Approval of Minutes to previous meeting. Review and approve weekly 
warrant; 4. Reports from all departments" and at 7 P.M. "Public to Address the Select 
Board." On that day, after a brief discussion of several topics, the Board opened the floor 
to public comment, even though it was not yet 7 P.M. A member of the public asked the 
Board about whether bids for the "South Road Extension" project were available, which 
led the Board to discuss whether the bids were subject to public disclosure. This led to an 
approximately fifteen minute conversation about a petition for a zoning bylaw change, a 
wind turbine issue, and the Open Meeting Law. Noting that Peru is a small town, the 
Board stated that the Open Meeting Law applies to everyone, but is administered 
differently depending upon the needs and resources of the community. This discussion 
was not included in the meeting minutes. 
None of the notices or minutes we reviewed listed the location of the meeting. 
Additionally, the notice for the Board's July 15, 2013 meeting inadvertently listed the date 
of the meeting as "July 8, 2013." Notwithstanding this error, the Board held its meeting on 
July 15, 2013. 
The Board received this complaint, dated August 12, 2013, on August 19, 2013. 
On September 26, 2013, two weeks after the Board's response was due, the Board 
requested an extension of time to respond to the complaint, which our office granted until 
October 4, 2013. The Board responded in a letter dated October 8, 2013, with no 
explanation for the further delay. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School 
Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law applies to 
all public bodies in the Commonwealth, whether they are local, regional, or state public 
bodies. The Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed and open 
to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public body 
with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law 
defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other 
procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a 
meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. Expression of an 
opinion on matters within a body's jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a 
deliberation, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 2014-2; OML 
2013- 186.5 
Additionally, the Open Meeting Law requires that all meeting notices "shall be 
printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time, and place 
of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting," G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(1 )(b). 
I. The Board Failed to Comply With Notice Posting Requirements under the Open 
Meeting Law. 
The notice for the Board's July 15, 2013 meeting incorrectly stated the date of the 
meeting as July 8, 2013. Although this error appears to have been inadvertent, the effect 
was that the public had no knowledge of the actual date of the meeting. Additionally, each 
notice we reviewed failed to include the location of the meeting, as required by the Open 
Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03. We therefore find that these notices 
did not comply with the Open Meeting Law's requirements. 
We do not, however, find a violation concerning the times at which the Board 
discussed particular agenda items. While a public body must list anticipated discussion 
topics, it is not required to discuss those topics in any particular order. We therefore find 
that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing items on the agenda 
prior to the designated discussion times. See OML 2014-35; OML 2013-161. However, if 
a body chooses to list a specific time for discussion of each item on the meeting notice, we 
encourage it to avoid discussing topics prior to the scheduled time so that it honors its 
representations to the public. See id. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass,gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
We also remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to list 
topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(1 )(b). With respect to the Board's 
August 5, 2013 meeting notice, we note that, to the extent that the Chair anticipated at least 
48 hours in advance of the meeting that specific department reports would be discussed or 
that certain public officials would appear to report to the Board, for example, the notice 
should have included that level of detail under the boilerplate topic, "Reports from all 
departments." See OML 2013-14. 
II. The Board Failed to Create Accurate and Sufficient Minutes. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, 
the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken 
at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
All of the minutes we reviewed failed to include the place of the meeting, as 
required. Additionally, the minutes from the Board's meetings held on July 22, 2013; July 
29, 2013; and August 5, 2013 are inaccurate because they list discussion items and details 
that were not, in fact, discussed during the meeting. Rather, the Board used the July 22, 
2013 and July 29, 2013 minutes, in part, to document correspondence received and 
approval of meeting minutes that occurred immediately prior to each meeting. The 
minutes from the Board's August 5, 2013 meeting are insufficient for the additional reason 
that they included details about topics that were not in fact discussed and omitted 
discussions that did occur, including discussion surrounding the Board's process for 
collecting and selecting contract bids and discussion about a petition for a zoning bylaw 
amendment. 
Because these minutes did not comply with the Open Meeting Law's requirements, 
we order the Committee to draft and approve revised minutes for its July 22, 2013; July 29, 
2013; and August 5, 2013 meetings that contain an accurate summary of the discussions 
that occurred during each meeting. The minutes should include sufficient detail and 
accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the 
minutes and have a clear understanding of what actually occurred. OML 2013-157; OML 
2013-16. 
III. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Engaging in Deliberation Outside of 
a Properly Posted Meeting. 
Because this is a three-member Board, two members constitute a quorum. Our 
review of the Board's minutes for accuracy revealed that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law when it discussed matters within its jurisdiction before the start of its July 
22, 2013 and July 29, 2013 meetings. See OML 2011-26. Prior to the July 22, 2013 
meeting, members of the Board discussed the purchase of a new front entrance to Town 
Hall and, prior to the July 29, 2013 meeting, the Board approved meeting minutes. These 
5 
===PAGE 6===
are certainly matters within the Board's jurisdiction, as evidenced by the fact that they 
were listed on the agenda for Board meetings. Therefore, they may be discussed by a 
quorum of the Board only during a properly posted meeting. Although the Board 
encourages an "open door policy" that may allow members of the public who happen to 
arrive early to a meeting to witness these discussions, and although these discussions may 
seem minor enough to the Board that they do not warrant discussion during a meeting, the 
Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies reserve all deliberation for a properly 
posted meeting. See OML 2011-26; see also OML 2013-158 (the Committee engaged in 
improper deliberation by discussing matters immediately after its meetings were 
adjourned). Accordingly, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
IV. The Board Failed to Respond to the Complaint Within Fourteen Business Davs. 
We find that the Board further violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
respond to this complaint in a timely manner. The Open Meeting Law requires that, within 
fourteen business days after receiving a complaint, the public body shall review the 
complaint's allegations, take remedial action if appropriate, and send the Attorney General 
a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). Despite our office granting an extension of time to respond to 
the complaint, which response was already overdue at the time this request was made, the 
Board did not respond by the extension deadline. We therefore find that the Board failed 
to comply with the Law. 6 See OML 2013- 83. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to comply with notice posting requirements; by failing to include accurate 
and sufficient detail in its meeting minutes; by engaging in deliberation outside of a 
properly posted meeting; and by failing to respond within fourteen business days of receipt 
of an Open Meeting Law complaint. We order the following: 
1) Immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law. We caution that 
future similar conduct may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. 
2) Review by the Board of the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Training 
Videos and certify to our office within thirty (30) days of this decision, using 
the attached form, that all Board members have reviewed this determination and 
the video.7 
6 We note that OML 2014-43, in which we found that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint in a timely manner, was issued after the events at issue in this 
complaint occurred. 
7 The Attorney General's Open Meeting Law training videos may be found here: 
http://www.mass.gov/ago/govemment-resources/open-meeting-law/video-trainings/ 
6 
===PAGE 7===
3) Revise the minutes from the Board's meetings held on July 15, 2013; July 22, 
2013; July 29, 2013 and August 5, 2013 in accordance with this determination. 
Compliance with all aspects of this order must occur within thirty (30) days after 
receipt of this determination. We now consider the complaint addressed by this 
determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints 
which may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office 
at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Joseph Kaminski 
Peru Board of Selectmen 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attomey General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
7 
===PAGE 8===
Certification of Compliance with Order 
I hereby certify that I have read the Attorney General's 
(print name) 
determination number OML 2014-54 and, pursuant to the order therein, reviewed the 
Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Training Videos on . 
(date) 
Board Member Signature Date 
8 