===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 13, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 216 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Michael D’Ortenzio Jr., Esq. 
KP Law 
mdortenzio@k-plaw.com  
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney D’Ortenzio: 
 
This office received a complaint from Ellin Asack on April 10, 2024, alleging that the 
Old Kings Highway Historic District Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Commission 
on March 11, 2024, and you responded, on behalf of the Commission, by letter dated March 29, 
2024.  The complaint alleges that the minutes of the Commission’s November 28, 2023, meeting, 
which were amended on February 27, 2024, are inaccurate in that they fail to summarize a brief 
discussion that occurred at the end of the meeting.  The complaint also alleges that the 
Commission failed to follow proper procedures for convening in executive session on November 
28, 2023, improperly met in executive session, and discussed improper topics in executive 
session. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Commission’s response, the Complainant’s request for further review of the complaint, the 
original and amended minutes of the Commission’s November 28, 2023, meeting, and an audio 
recording of the November 28, 2023, meeting.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the relevant facts to be as follows.  The Commission posted notice for and held a 
meeting on November 28, 2023.  The meeting was held for the primary purpose of conducting a 
hearing on an appeal filed by the Complainant’s neighbors regarding a decision of the Sandwich 
Historic District Committee pertaining to a dispute regarding a wood pile on the Complainant’s 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
property that the neighbors contended constituted a “structure,” in violation of the Old Kings 
Highway Historic Regional Historic District Act, Rules and Regulations, and/or Guidelines.  
After hearing from several individuals and discussion by the Commission, the Commission voted 
three in favor and two opposed to uphold the decision of the Sandwich Historic District 
Committee “that the wood pile is not considered a structure,” effectively ruling in the 
Complainant’s favor.
1   
 
Following the vote at the conclusion of the hearing on November 28, 2023, the 
Commission’s Chair stated, “Ok, that ends the meeting,” and a Commission member moved to 
adjourn.  There was no acknowledgment of the motion to adjourn—neither a second nor a vote—
and the Chair continued speaking by explaining the appeal period and process.  The Chair then 
stated that the Commission would continue with a short meeting before adjourning; a remark is 
audible on the meeting recording indicating that there would be a health update regarding one of 
the Commission’s attorneys who was not present.  Several individuals, who we understand 
included the Complainant’s attorney and possibly the Complainant, but not the Commission 
members, continued speaking in the meeting room regarding the appeal.  After waiting 
approximately one minute while the background discussion continued, the Commission members 
and their attorney, Ann Morse, began speaking again, while the Complainant’s attorney 
continued speaking in the background.  The Commission’s Chair then asked the Complainant’s 
attorney to take his discussion out into the hall; he responded, “oh, yeah, sorry.”  A Commission 
member then remarked, “this is an open meeting, should we adjourn before we throw everyone 
out?”  Attorney Morse responded that it wasn’t necessary as she wouldn’t be going into detail 
regarding the absent attorney’s health update. 
 
Attorney Morse then provided updates regarding the health status of the absent attorney, 
including details regarding his medical condition, and explained the plan for legal coverage 
during his absence.  In the course of that discussion, Attorney Morse provided brief status 
updates regarding matters in process.  During the last three minutes of the meeting recording, the 
Commission members discussed procedural matters regarding the appeal and at least one 
member conveyed his opinions regarding the Complainant and the wood pile that was the subject 
of the appeal.   
 
The Commission issued a written decision dated December 29; the written decision also 
constitutes the minutes of the November 28, 2023, meeting.  During a February 27, 2024, 
meeting, the Commission approved amended minutes of the meeting which add a list of 
documents and exhibits used during the meeting as well as a brief statement regarding Attorney 
Morse’s updates at the end of the meeting. 
 
  
 
1 The Complainant filed two additional Open Meeting Law complaints pertaining to the November 28, 2023, 
Commission meeting, which were resolved by separate determination.  See OML 2024-169.  That determination 
includes additional background information regarding the dispute and the appeal. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The complaint alleges that the failed to follow proper procedures for convening in 
executive session on November 28, 2023, improperly met in executive session, discussed 
improper topics in executive session, and that the amended meeting minutes do not adequately 
summarize the discussions held during the meeting.  The Complainant asserts that because an 
executive session took place outside of public view, the allegations were not discoverable until 
the Complainant requested and received a recording of the complete meeting.  The Commission 
responds that it did not convene in executive session on that date; that the duration of the 
meeting remained open to the public; and that the complaint was untimely filed because the 
allegations were discoverable on the date of the meeting.  Consideration of whether the 
complaint was timely filed therefore is inextricably linked with an analysis of whether an 
executive session took place, and we review both issues together. 
 
Complaints alleging a violation of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public 
body wit
hin 30 days of the alleged violation, or if the alleged violation could not reasonably have 
been known at the time it occurred, then within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have 
been discovered.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4).  Violations that occur in open 
session can reasonably be discovered when they occur, not when minutes or other records of the 
meeting become available.  See OML 2012-52; OML Declination 9-30-13 (Boston Zoning 
Board of Appeal); OML Declination 3-3-2014 (Sterling Board of Selectmen). 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be noticed and open to 
the p
ublic unless an executive session is convened for a permissible purpose.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21.  Notwithstanding the general rule that open session meetings must be open to all 
interested members of the public, the Open Meeting Law grants the chair of a public body the 
authority to remove disruptive individuals from a meeting to maintain the orderly flow of the 
meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g); OML 2023-217. 
 
After review, we find that the Commission did not convene in executive session on 
Novem
ber 28, 2023, and that the Commission did not improperly exclude the Complainant, her 
attorney, or other individuals from the meeting.  After the conclusion of the hearing that 
constituted most of the meeting, the Commission conveyed that it would continue with a short 
“meeting” to provide a health update regarding the Commission’s attorney.  Although one 
Commission member moved to adjourn, the Chair did not acknowledge that motion and no vote 
was taken.  The Chair asked members of the public who were talking amongst themselves in the 
meeting room to take their discussion into the hall.  In context, we find that it was reasonably 
clear that the meeting had not ended, and that members of the public were asked to take their 
discussions outside so as not to disrupt the meeting, not because they were prohibited from 
remaining in the meeting room.  Therefore, both the fact that the meeting continued as well as 
the content of the discussions were reasonably discoverable as of the date of the meeting.  
Compare OML 2019-123 (finding no violation where the chair twice mistakenly stated that the 
meeting was “adjourned,” when it was clear in context that the intention was to “recess” the 
meeting) with OML 2020-165 (finding a violation where the board voted to adjourn the meeting 
despite an explanation that it only intended to recess, where the context conveyed to the public 
that the meeting was over); see also OML 2023-217 (finding that a chair did not improperly 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
exclude two members of the public from an open meeting when he asked them to “take [their 
argument] outside” so as not to disrupt the meeting).   
 
The fact that a particular complainant did not attend a public meeting, or a portion of a 
mee
ting, does not change the fact that any member of the public could have attended the meeting 
and learned of the alleged violations on that date.  See OML Declination 4-25-24 (East 
Longmeadow Conservation Commission); OML Declination 12-18-20 (Pembroke Commission 
of Health); OML Declination 5-21-12 (Montague Commission of Selectmen).  We find that the 
entirety of the Commission’s meeting on November 28, 2023, took place in an open session that 
any member of the public could have attended.  Therefore, alleged violations regarding events 
that occurred during that meeting were discoverable on the date of the meeting, and a complaint 
regarding those events should have been filed within 30 days thereafter.   
 
Relatedly, the complaint alleges that the minutes of the November 28, 2023, meeting, 
whic
h were approved on December 29, 2023, and amended on February 27, 2024, are inaccurate 
insofar as they do not adequately summarize the portion of the meeting that the Complainant 
contends occurred outside of public view.  Typically, a complaint regarding the sufficiency or 
accuracy of meeting minutes must be filed within 30 days of the date the minutes were approved.  
See OML 2018-99; OML Declination 9-4-12 (Manchester-by-the-Sea Zoning Committee of 
Appeals); OML Declination 5-14-12 (Sheffield Planning Committee).  The minutes that were 
approved on December 29, 2023, did not include any mention of the brief discussions at the end 
of the meeting.  The Complainant filed a separate Open Meeting Law complaint with the 
Commission in January 2024 that included, among other allegations, an allegation regarding the 
insufficiency of the minutes in other respects.  Although the minutes were amended on February 
24, 2024, an allegation regarding the omission of a summary of the alleged non-public portion of 
the meeting should have been raised in a complaint filed no later than 30 days after initial 
approval of the minutes.  We will not restart the clock upon the amendment of the meeting 
minutes when the facts underlying the alleged violation existed at the time that the minutes were 
initially approved.  See OML 2022-142 (declining to review alleged inaccuracies in amended 
meeting minutes that were or could have been raised in a prior complaint regarding the original 
meeting minutes).   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not convene in executive 
session on November 28, 2023, and therefore did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
improperly convening in executive session.  We find that the remaining allegations in the 
complaint were not timely raised, and we decline to review them.   
 
  
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Commission 
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Ellin Asack (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
