===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 5, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 205 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Kathryn M. Fallon, Esq. 
City Solicitor 
City of Framingham 
kfallon@framinghamma.gov 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Fallon: 
 
This office received a complaint from Catherine Cuddy on February 27, 2024, alleging 
that the Framingham Disability Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on or 
around January 21, and you responded on behalf of the Commission by letter dated February 8.  
The complaint alleges that the Commission, and specifically Chair Sheryl Goldstein and Vice 
Chair Meghan Todd, deliberated outside of a posted meeting by email on January 4.   
 
Following review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint filed with the 
Commission, the Commission’s response, the Complainant’s request for further review of the 
complaint, email chains among Commission members from November 2023 and January 2024, 
and additional correspondence submitted by Commission member Susan Santone. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
not
ice of every meet ing at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  However, there is a narrow exception to the definition of 
“deliberation” for “the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution 
of other procedural meeting [information] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be 
 
1 All dates refer to the year 2024, unless indicated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  
For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a 
public body.  Id.   
 
The Commission is a seven-member public body; therefore, four members constitute a 
quorum.  The complaint alleges that Commission Chair Goldstein and Vice Chair Todd violated 
the Open Meeting Law on January 4 when, in an email exchange with the Complainant, who is a 
member of the Commission, they added the Commission’s clerk, Tyler Terrasi, to the email 
chain, thus including a quorum of Commission members in the communications.  The email 
exchange concerned the Complainant’s request to provide a presentation on service animals at an 
upcoming Commission meeting and was a continuation of a prior email exchange and 
disagreement regarding a deadline to submit presentation materials in advance of any meeting.  
Specifically, on January 4, Chair Goldstein reiterated a requirement that presentation materials 
be submitted a certain amount of time in advance of a meeting so that all meeting materials can 
be compiled and submitted to the City Clerk’s office.  Vice Chair Todd responded by explaining 
the process for preparing the meeting agenda and materials and the reason for requiring advance 
submission; Vice Chair Todd added Commission Clerk Terrasi to the email chain.  The 
Complainant objected to the deadline for submitting presentation materials and removed 
Commission Clerk Terrasi from the email chain.  Chair Goldstein then responded, adding 
Commission Clerk Terrasi back on the email chain, and again stated the requirement to submit 
materials in advance in order to prepare the agenda in the format required by the City Clerk by 
the applicable deadline. 
 
We find that the c
 ommunications at issue in the complaint did not constitute deliberation, 
notwithstanding that the addition of Commission Clerk Terrasi constituted a quorum of the 
Commission.  Rather, the communications fell within the Open Meeting Law’s exception to the 
definition of “deliberation” allowing for administrative communications pertaining to agenda and 
scheduling information.  See, e.g., OML 2022-102 (email explaining a matter that had arisen 
with another public body and then stating that the matter would be discussed further at a future 
meeting did not constitute deliberation); OML 2022-31 (emails pertaining to when and how to 
hold meetings during the COVID-19 pandemic, including the need to comply with the 
Governor’s stay-at-home order and then coordinating remote and hybrid meetings, did not 
constitute deliberation); OML 2021-180.  We do not find that the emails conveyed the Chair’s or 
Vice Chair’s opinions regarding matters within the Commission’s jurisdiction, but rather were 
limited to procedural matters related to the preparation and distribution of the agenda and 
accompanying materials. 
 
  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Commission.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Catherine Cuddy (via email: ) 
Sheryl Goldstein, Chair, Framingham Disability Commission (via email: 
) 
Tyler Terrasi, Clerk, Framingham Disability Commission (via email: 
) 
 Framingham City Clerk (via email:
 chadala@town.somerset.ma.us) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
