===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200
(617) 727-4765 TTY
www.mass.gov/ago
September 7, 2021 
OML 2021 – 119 
VIA EMAIL 
Robert Van Campen 
Melrose City Solicitor  
City Hall, 562 Main Street 
Melrose, MA 02176 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Solicitor Van Campen: 
This office received a complaint from Ryan Bagwell on March 24, 2021, alleging that the 
Melrose Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 13 and you responded on behalf 
of the Board by letter dated March 1.1 The complaint alleges that on February 10 the Board 
scheduled an emergency meeting for 8:30 PM on February 11 to discuss “vaccination clinic 
eligibility for people accompanying residents 75+”. The complaint alleges that the notice for the 
Board’s February 11 meeting was insufficiently detailed and that notice was posted less than 48 
hours in advance of the meeting.2 
Following our review, we find that the notice for the Board’s February 11 meeting was 
sufficiently detailed and that the February 11 meeting satisfied the Open Meeting Law’s 
definition of “emergency,” which allowed the Board to post notice less than 48 hours in advance 
of the meeting. We therefore find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed a copy of the 
notice and meeting minutes of the Board’s February 11 meeting.  
1 Unless otherwise noted, all dates refer to the year 2021. 
2 In addition, the Mr. Bagwell also alleges in his request for further review that the minutes for the emergency 
meeting were insufficiently detailed. We decline to review this additional allegation as it was not included in the 
original complaints filed with the public body. Our office does not conduct broad audits of public bodies and will 
address only specific allegations made in an Open Meeting Law complaint. See OML 2020-2; OML Declination 4-
22-15 (Natick Economic Development Committee).

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On March 10, 2020, Governor Charles Baker declared a 
state of emergency in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts due to the COVID-19 pandemic, 
during which he issued several executive orders to curb the transmission of the virus. Many local 
boards of health simultaneously exercised their authority in this context, often to act in 
accordance with statewide policies and directives from state authorities such as Governor Baker 
or the Massachusetts Department of Public Health.   
On February 8, the Melrose Health Department announced a vaccination clinic for 
individuals 75 years and older scheduled for Wednesday, February 17. However, on February 
10, one week prior to the clinic, Governor Baker unexpectedly expanded vaccine eligibility to 
those accompanying individuals 75-years-old and older to state-run mass vaccination sites.3 The 
same day, at or around 4:30 PM, the Board posted notice for an emergency meeting scheduled 
for 8:30 PM the next evening, February 11, to discuss whether to expand vaccine eligibility at 
the Melrose Health Department’s February 17 clinic to include people accompanying residents 
aged 75 and older. 
On February 11, the Board met as scheduled. After a discussion of about 35 minutes on 
the topic, the Board voted unanimously to adopt the expanded vaccine eligibility at the Melrose 
Health Department’s February 17 clinic to include people accompanying residents aged 75 and 
older. 
On February 12, Melrose Mayor Paul Bodeur posted a message on Facebook that the 
Board had voted to adopt the Caregiver/Companion COVID-19 vaccine eligibility announced by 
Governor Baker. Mr. Bagwell first learned about the Board’s emergency meeting when he saw 
the Mayor’s post on February 13, and filed this complaint the same day.   
DISCUSSION 
1. The notice for the Board’s February 11 meeting was sufficiently detailed. 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting.” Id. The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b).  
 We find that notice posted on February 10 for the Board’s February 11 meeting was 
sufficiently detailed under the Open Meeting Law. By providing “vaccination clinic eligibility 
for people accompanying residents 75+” under the “policy discussion” header, the Board’s 
 
3 Mr. Bagwell alleges that the Board did not have the authority to implement this program as the Board’s 
vaccination clinic was not a state-run vaccination site. The Division of Open Government’s review only concerns 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. As this allegation concerns the Board’s authority, 
which is outside the scope of the Open Meeting Law, we do not take a position as to the authority of the Board. See 
OML 2021-15.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
notice for the February 11 meeting gave members of the public a clear idea of the topic to be 
discussed. The notice advised the public that the Board would discuss vaccine eligibility for 
those accompanying residents 75 years and older. This is in fact what the Board discussed. It is 
reasonably foreseeable that a public body may hold a vote following discussion of a topic listed 
on a meeting notice, even where the notice topic does not indicate the possibility of a vote. See 
OML 2018-70; OML 2016-160.4 Therefore, we find that the Board was not required to specify 
on the meeting notice that a vote on the caregiver policy might occur at the February 11 meeting, 
and the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
2. An emergency existed that allowed the Board to meet on February 11 without posting 
notice 48 hours in advance. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “[e]xcept in an emergency, in addition to any notice 
otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours 
prior to such meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
The Open Meeting Law defines an emergency as “a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or 
set of circumstances demanding immediate action.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18; 940 CMR 29.02. The 
burden of justifying the need for an emergency meeting falls on the public body. See OML 2020-
123. 
We are persuaded that the totality of the circumstances following Governor Baker’s 
announcement expanding vaccine eligibility constituted an “emergency” which allowed the 
Board to hold a meeting without posting notice 48 hours in advance. The circumstances were 
both unexpected and required immediate action, that is, action that could not wait for notice to be 
posted 48 hours in advance. G.L. c. 30A, § 18; 940 CMR 29.02; OML 2021-28; OML 2021-93. 
First, the Board did not have advanced notice of the Governor’s announcement, an unexpected 
circumstance.  
Second, the Board asserts, and we agree, that any significant delay in the Board’s 
expansion of companion eligibility would result in less advance notice to the public and would 
likely have correspondingly lowered attendance at the February 17 clinic, producing a negative 
impact on public health. Although the incremental delay caused by posting notice 48 hours in 
advance to discuss a matter that is still several days away will not always constitute an 
emergency, particular circumstances in this situation would have made the delay of 48 hours 
more significant. Governor Baker’s announcement was made on a Wednesday prior to a holiday 
weekend with the vaccine clinic scheduled for the following Wednesday. If the Board had waited 
until late in the day on Friday to meet and to change the criteria for its vaccination clinic, then as 
a practical matter the Town would have had only one business day to advertise and implement 
the change. Therefore, the Board could not wait 48 hours to hold a meeting to expand the 
eligibility criteria because waiting 48 hours would almost entirely preclude the Board from 
taking effective action. Because the Board need to take immediate action in response to an 
unexpected circumstance, we find that an emergency existed which allowed the Board to post 
notice of its meeting less than 48 hours in advance. We therefore find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 
4 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by: Nicholas Papazyan, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Ryan Bagwell (via e-mail:  
 Melrose Board of Health c/o Melrose City Clerk Kristin Foote (via e-mail: 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
