===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 19,2016 
OML 2016-6 
Michael D. Powers, Counsel 
Auto Damage Appraiser Licensing Board 
1000 Washington Street 
Suite 810 
Boston, MA 02118 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Powers: 
This office received a complaint from Peter D'Agostino, dated September 17, 2015, 
alleging that the Massachusetts Auto Damage Appraiser Licensing Board (the "Board") violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that during 
the Board's June 2, 2015 meeting, the Board entered into executive session for an improper 
purpose.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on June 24, 2015.2 The Board 
responded by letter dated August 3, 2015, following an extension of time granted by our office. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we considered this 
matter. Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law because 
while its discussions were proper for executive session, it failed to follow the proper procedures 
for holding its executive session. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint 
filed with the Board, the Board's response, and the complaint filed with our office. Additionally, 
1 The complaint filed with our office also alleges that the notice for the Board's June 2, 2015 meeting lacked 
sufficient detail. The Open Meeting Law requires that a complaint be filed, on an Open Meeting Law complaint 
form, with the public body within 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). Here, because this 
allegation was not included in the complaint first filed with the Board, we decline to review it. See OML 2015-141; 
OML 2013-199. However, we note that meeting notices must identify the specific purposes, enumerated in G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a), for anticipated executive session discussions. See OML 2015-129. Open Meeting Law 
determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 The complaint references similar alleged violations occurring during the Board's August 16, 2014; September 24, 
2014; December 3, 2014; and February 24, 2015 meetings. The original complaint does not clearly identify these 
meetings as representing distinct violations, but rather raises them to support the allegations concerning the Board's 
June 2, 2015 meeting. The complaint filed with our office asks the Attorney General to review alleged violations 
concerning these additional dates. Because the allegations concerning these specific meetings were not clearly 
raised in the initial complaint, we decline to review them. 
===PAGE 2===
we reviewed the notice for, and open session minutes of, the Board's June 2, 2015 meeting. We 
also reviewed a letter from the Board, addressed to our office, dated October 27, 2015. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The notice for the Board's June 2, 2015 meeting included 
the following anticipated discussion topics: 
Executive session to discuss the character and reputation of an applicant for motor 
vehicle damage appraiser license, complaints filed against licensees, and a letter from a 
formerly licensed motor vehicle damage appraiser. 
Complaint 2015-2, dated April 22, 2015 filed by C.L.M. Auto Body 
During the meeting, the Board voted to enter into executive session to discuss potential 
litigation following its receipt of a letter from an individual whose motor vehicle damage 
appraiser license was revoked in 2008. This individual alleged that his legal rights had been 
violated and that his reputation had been damaged as a result of the Board's actions. The Board 
also voted to enter into executive session to discuss an unrelated complaint against another 
licensed appraiser. Complaint #2015-2. The Board Chair did not state prior to entering into 
executive session that an open session discussion would have a detrimental effect on the Board's 
litigation position. Once in executive session, the only action the Board took on this second 
complaint was a vote to table discussion until a later date. 
DISCUSSION 
The complaint challenges the propriety of the Board's two June 2, 2015 executive session 
discussions. The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in 
an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of ten enumerated puiposes, provided that the chair of the 
public body first announces in open session the purpose for the executive session, "stating all 
subjects that may be revealed without compromising the puipose for which the executive session 
was called." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3). One permissible reason to convene in executive 
session is to "discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than 
professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or 
complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). Another permissible reason for entering into executive 
session is "[t]o discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body 
and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). 
The first executive session topic discussed by the Board during its June 2, 2015 meeting 
was appropriate under Purpose 3 because it concerned imminently threatened litigation. See 
OML 2014-121. The mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke executive session 
Purpose 3. See OML 2012-5; OML 2011- 30. Litigation must be pending, clearly and 
imminently threatened, or otherwise demonstrably likely. See Perryman v. School Committee of 
Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-43. Here, an individual whose license 
2 
===PAGE 3===
had been suspended by the Board sent a letter that the Board understood to threaten litigation. 
Therefore, the Board was permitted to discuss this topic in executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3). However, it appears that the Board Chair failed to make the required public statement 
prior to entering into executive session, that an open session discussion would have a detrimental 
effect on the Board's litigating position. Id. This violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 
2012-107. 
With respect to the second executive session topic discussed on June 2, 2015, the Board 
entered executive session to discuss "Complaint 2015-2, dated April 22, 2015 filed by C.L.M. 
Auto Body." According to the Board's October 27, 2015 letter, the Board intended during this 
executive session to discuss a complaint brought against an individual pursuant to Purpose 1. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The Board's intent was to conduct an initial procedural review, 
following receipt of a complaint brought against a licensed appraiser that could potentially result 
in fines or loss of a license. As part of this type of review, the Board Legal Counsel conducts a 
preliminary review of each complaint the Board receives against a licensed appraiser to 
determine whether the complaint is legally sufficient to move forward. The Board Legal 
Counsel then discusses his finding with the Board. This process may be properly conducted in 
executive session under Puipose 1, to discuss "complaints or charges brought against [an] 
...individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). However, when a public body enters into executive 
session under Purpose 1, the individual to be discussed in the executive session must be afforded 
certain rights. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The individual must be notified in writing by the public 
body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session. Id The individual also has the 
right to request that the session be open; to be present at such executive session during 
deliberations which involve that individual; to have counsel or a representative of his or her own 
choosing present and attending for the puipose of advising the individual and not for the puipose 
of active participation in the executive session; to speak on his or her own behalf; and to cause an 
independent record to be created of said executive session by audio-recording or transcription, at 
the individual's expense. Id. None of these rights were afforded to the individual who was the 
subject of the Board's June 2, 2015 executive session. 
The Board argues that it is not required to afford these rights to the individual during this 
initial stage of its review of a complaint because the individual's due process rights are protected 
if the complaint moves forward for review. Anytime the Board enters into executive session 
under Purpose 1, it must provide the subject of its discussion with the rights outlined in G.L. 
30A, § 21(a)(1). This requirement applies even during the preliminary review of a complaint. 
Therefore, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by entering into a Purpose 1 executive 
session without notifying the individual who was the subject of the discussion, and by failing to 
afford that individual the rights guaranteed by Purpose 1. See G.L. 30A, § 21(a)(1); OML 2014-
137: OML 2014-24.3 
3 In its October 27, 2015 letter, the Board argues that this discussion also fell under the Open Meeting Law's quasi-
judicial exception. This exception states that when quasi-judicial public bodies meet for the sole purpose of making 
a decision required in an adjudicatory proceeding, they do not need to comply with the requirements of the Open 
Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2013-104. All other parts of the adjudicatory proceeding must still follow 
the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. Here, the Board's Legal Counsel's presentation of the complaint to the 
Board and recommendation were part of the adjudicatoiy proceeding, and thus subject to the requirements of the 
Open Meeting Law. Therefore, to discuss this in private, the Board was required to properly invoke one of the ten 
executive session pmposes, as discussed above. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). However, once the Board had been 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Although this second executive session discussion was improper because the executive 
session procedures were not followed, we note that once in executive session, the Board voted to 
table the complaint at issue without discussion. Because the Board did not actually discuss the 
complaint in executive session, or take action other than to table its discussion, we find that the 
harm resulting from the Board's violation was de minimis. However, we remind the Board that it 
may not meet in executive session to review complaints under Purpose 1 unless it has followed 
all of the requirements of G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law because the Board failed to 
follow the proper procedures to hold its June 2, 2105 executive session. We order the Board's 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution the Board that a 
similar future violation may be considered evidence of an intentional violation of the law. 
Further, because we find that the Board failed to follow certain required procedures when it 
entered into executive session on June 2, 2015, the Board may not continue to withhold these 
minutes under the Open Meeting Law. See G.L c. 3OA, § 22(f) ("The minutes of any executive 
session... may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety ... as long as publication 
may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer; provided, however, that 
the executive session was held in compliance with section 21" (emphasis added)); OML 2014-
42; OML 2014-30; OML 2014-17. The Board may, however, continue to withhold these 
minutes in whole or in part if an exemption to the Public Records Law or the attorney/client 
privilege applies. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve 
any other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Board. Please feel free to 
contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Peter D'Agostino 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
presented with the complaint and counsel's recommendation, it could potentially have invoked the quasi-judicial 
exception to decide whether or not to move forward with the matter, as this constitutes "making a decision required 
in an adjudicatory proceeding brought before it." See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2013-104. 
4 