===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
October 26, 2016 
OML 2016-145 
Haverhill Conservation Commission 
c/o Robert E. Moore, Jr. 
Haverhill Environmental Health Technician 
4 Summer Street 
Haverhill, MA 01830 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Moore: 
This office received a complaint from Ronald MacLeod, dated July 19, alleging that the 
Haverhill Conservation Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on June 30, and the 
Commission responded by letter dated July 14.2 In his complaint, Mi". MacLeod alleges that the 
Commission failed to specify on the notice for its June 23 and June 30 meetings that it planned to 
hold a public hearing on a particular application. 
Following our review, we find no violation with respect to the Commission's June 23 
meeting notice, however, we find that its June 30 meeting notice did not comply with the Open 
Meeting Law's notice requirements. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint filed with the Commission, the Commission's response, and the complainant's request 
for further review filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed the notices of the June 23 and 
the June 30 meetings, and the minutes from the June 30 meeting. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Commission met on June 30, in part, to hold a hearing 
on an application submitted by WHC Haverhill AL, LLC ("WHC Haverhill") for permission to 
construct an assisted-living facility, in accordance with the Massachusetts Wetlands Protection 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 We note that, unless an extension of time has been granted, a public body must, within 14 business days of receipt 
of an Open Meeting Law complaint, send a copy of the complaint to the Attorney General's Office and notify the 
Attorney General's Office of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5), (6). Here, the 
complaint was filed with the Commission on June 30. The Commission responded directly to the complainant on 
July 14, a copy of which we received only after the complainant submitted his request for further review to our 
office. We take this opportunity to remind the Commission of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
o 
===PAGE 2===
Act. The meeting was originally scheduled for June 23, but was postponed due to a lack of a 
quorum of the Commission. The June 23 meeting notice, timely posted to the City website on 
June 16, stated that "there will be a meeting of the Haverhill Conservation Commission ... if 
postponed by the Commission the public meeting will be held on June 30, at the same time and 
location." The notice listed the topic at issue as "Notice of Intent-#33-1390 WHC Haverhill AL, 
LLC for North Av.. .Construction of an assisted-living facility (due to a clerical error in the 
posting of the May 12th meeting notice, this hearing will be reopened on June 23rd.)"3 
The June 30 meeting notice, posted to the City website on June 24, stated that the June 23 
meeting had been postponed one week "to its previously advertised postponement date" of June 
30, and that "[t]he items listed on the June 23rd agenda will be discussed at that time." The 
notice did not include a list of the topics to be discussed on June 30. At the conclusion of the 
June 30 meeting, the Commission granted an Order of Conditions approving the project with 
some conditions. The complainant was present and participated at the meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body must post notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting that includes a "listing 
of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b), We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the 
public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. 
See OML 2011-44.4 
The complainant alleges that the June 23 meeting notice did not specify that it would 
hold a hearing on the WHC Haverhill application. Because the June 23 meeting was canceled 
and postponed due to a lack of quorum, we find no violation with respect to the notice for that 
meeting. See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155 (unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do 
not review the sufficiency of a meeting notice standing alone, but rather we review what was 
actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently detailed to make the 
public aware of the discussion topics). Even if the meeting had gone forward, however, the 
meeting notice was sufficient because it identified the WHC Haverhill topic as a hearing, albeit 
in parentheses. See OML 2013-187. The Open Meeting Law's notice posting requirements are 
separate from any notice requirements set forth in any public hearing law.5 For compliance with 
the Open Meeting Law's notice posting requirements, we generally advise public bodies to 
identify on their notices if a topic will include a public hearing. See OML 2016-60; OML 2015-
156. Although we agree that the topic, as listed, could have been clearer, the notice would not 
have violated the Open Meeting Law had the meeting gone forward. 
The complainant also alleges that the Commission failed to identify the same topic as a 
hearing on its June 30 meeting notice. In fact, the June 30 meeting notice did not include a list of 
any anticipated topics, but rather referred back to the topics listed on the June 23 meeting notice. 
3 Due to a clerical error the May 12 meeting notice had not been posted to the City website. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 We note that the Open Meeting Law does not govern the requirements for conducting public hearings. See OML 
Declination 1-29-15 (Holbrook Planning Board), available at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeetmg. We therefore offer no opinion on whether the posting at issue complies with 
applicable hearing laws. Id. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Notice of a postponed or re-scheduled meeting must have the same elements as the original 
notice. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). It is not sufficient to refer to a prior meeting notice, unless that 
notice is physically attached to the new notice. Accordingly, we find that the Commission 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include the list of anticipated discussion topics on 
its June 30 meeting notice. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law failing to include the list of anticipated discussion topics on its June 30 meeting notice. We 
order the Commission's immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we 
caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ronald MacLeod 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 