===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKI. F.Y 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
Clement Brown, Esq. 
Horvitz & Brilhante, LLP 
321 North Main Street 
P.O. Box 2568 
Fall River, MA 02722 
October 6, 2014 
OML 2014-123 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Brown: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Chris Murphy, dated September 12, alleging 
that the Somerset Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 15, and you responded 
to the original complaint on behalf of the Board on August 21. In his complaint, Mr. Murphy 
alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing him during a meeting 
although the topic was not listed on the agenda and he was not notified beforehand. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the initial complaint, your response, the request for 
further review filed with our office, and the agenda and minutes for the Board's meeting held on 
July 30. We also conducted separate phone interviews with Mr. Murphy on September 17, 
Selectman Scott Lebeau on September 17, and Selectman Donald Setters on September 18. 
Finally, we viewed a video recording of the Board's July 30 meeting. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is composed of three members, with Selectman 
Donald Setters as Chair. On July 13, Mr. Murphy took a photograph of Selectman Scott 
Lebeau's residence. Selectman Lebeau claims that Mr. Murphy was leaning over his fence, 
photographing his seven-year old son; Mr. Murphy claims that he was photographing the 
Selectman's truck. During a meeting of the Board that was held on July 30, Selectman Lebeau 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
made a statement describing the events of July 13. The agenda for the July 30 meeting listed 
general topics of Board business, with #12 being "Other."2 Selectman Setters asked, "Is there 
anything else under 'Other'?" At this time. Selectman Lebeau made his statement. He stated his 
version of events, naming Mr. Murphy, and he thanked the citizens of the town for their support. 
The Board did not take any action on the issue. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Board Did Not Violate The Open Meeting Law By Failing To List Selectman 
Lebeau's Planned Statement In The Meeting Notice 
Public bodies are required to post notice of all meetings, including "the date, time and place 
of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b) (emphasis added). "The list of topics shall have sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
At issue here is whether Selectman Lebeau's statement concerning Mr. Murphy should have 
been included on the meeting notice. It is clear that Selectman Lebeau intended to make the 
statement well in advance of the meeting- the underlying incident took place on July 13, more 
than two weeks earlier, and his statement was written out in advance. When we spoke with Chair 
Setters, however, he denied that he had notice in advance of the meeting that Selectman Lebeau 
planned to discuss the July 13 incident. The complaint introduces no evidence suggesting that the 
Chair was aware of the planned statement prior to the meeting. We find that the Chair did not 
reasonably anticipate the statement prior to the meeting, therefore it was not a violation of the 
Open Meeting Law for Selectman Lebeau's to make the statement during the Board's meeting. 
We recommend, however, that where a public body member anticipates raising a topic prior to 
the meeting date, the public body member notify the chair so that the chair may list the item on 
the notice. See OML 2012-40. 
II. The Board Did Not Violate The Open Meeting Law By Failing To Notify Mr. 
Murphy That He Would Be Discussed At A Meeting 
Mr. Murphy alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to give him 
notice that it intended to discuss his character and reputation during the July 30 meeting. Under 
the Open Meeting Law, if a public body enters into executive session "[t]o discuss the 
reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence of 
an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought 
against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual," the body must notify the 
individual in writing at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session and afford the 
person certain rights. G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(a)(1). While a public body may choose to discuss an 
individual's reputation and character behind closed doors, there is no requirement that such a 
2 The use of topic headings such as "Other" or "New Business" is permissible, however the best practice is to 
explicitly state in the meeting notice that the time is being reserved for topics that the chair did not reasonably 
anticipate would be discussed. See OML 2013-13. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
discussion occur in executive session, and the subject of the discussion has no right under the 
Open Meeting Law to demand that they do so. See OML 2012-32. If a public body chooses to 
hold such a discussion in open session, there is no requirement that the individual who is the 
subject of the discussion be given notice. Id. 
Here, Selectman Lebeau discussed the July 13 incident in open session. The Board, therefore, 
was not required to provide Mr. Murphy with advance notice that he would be discussed. While 
the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law, we note that the Attorney General's Office 
encourages public bodies whenever possible to give notice to individuals who will be discussed 
during open meetings. Id; OML 2012-85. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Mr. Chris Murphy 
Somerset Board of Selectman 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3 