===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
November 18, 2019 
OML 2019-149
Frank K. Duffy, Esq.
Falmouth Town Counsel 
157 Locust Street 
Falmouth, MA 02540
Re: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Duffy:
This office received a complaint from Mary Barry on June 13, 2018, alleging that the 
Falmouth Committee on Accessory Apartment (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on May 10, 
2018, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated May 24, 2018. The 
complaint alleges that the Committee held a meeting on May 9, 2018, that was inaccessible to 
members of the public.
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Committee is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, and 
therefore did not violate the law in the way alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed 
the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with 
our office requesting further review. We also viewed the minutes of a joint meeting held on 
January 27, 2018, between the Board of Selectmen, Conservation Commission, Planning Board, 
Zoning Board of Appeals, Board of Health, Affordable Housing Committee, and Water Quality 
Management Committee, as well as a video recording of that meeting.1
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. In April 2017 at the Annual Town Meeting, the Town of 
Falmouth adopted an amendment to the zoning bylaw permitting accessory apartments in 
designated zoning districts. An accessory apartment would be considered an additional dwelling
1 The video recording of the January 27, 2018, joint meeting can be found here: http://www.fctv.org/v3/vod/joint- 
meeting-falmouth-boards-january-27-2018.

===PAGE 2===
unit in either the principle dwelling or as an accessory structure on the lot. Site plan reviews for 
any such apartment would be conducted by the Planning Board, with any special permits 
approved by the Board of Appeals. The intent of the Accessory Apartment bylaw was to 
broaden the range of housing choices in Falmouth by increasing the number of small dwelling 
units available for rent, encourage greater diversity of population with particular attention to 
young adult citizens, and allow for aging in place for senior citizens. See Town of Falmouth 
Code, Chapter 240, § 23(1).
On January 27, 2018, a joint meeting was held between the Board of Selectmen, 
Conservation Commission, Planning Board, Zoning Board of Appeals, Board of Health, 
Affordable Housing Committee, and Water Quality Management Committee. The public bodies 
generally discussed the Strategic and Local Comprehensive Plans for the Town. One discussion 
involved the implementation of the Accessory Apartment bylaw, and specifically, that 
application of the bylaw seemed to be impractical, and that there was a lack of coordination 
between various town departments on its implementation. The Chair of the Board of Health then 
inquired whether it “would make sense to request a task force” comprised of town 
“representatives.” The Town Manager stated that he was willing to make that happen “and 
follow the Board of Selectmen’s recommendation.” However, no votes were taken nor was a 
decision made at this joint meeting with respect to the creation of such a task force.
According to Town Legal Counsel Frank Duffy,2 the Board of Selectmen “tasked the 
Town Manager to review the bylaw and effectuate a uniform interpretation or otherwise resolve 
the problem.” However, after a review of the Board of Selectmen’s minutes following the 
January 27, 2018, joint meeting, it does not appear that the Board of Selectmen formally 
appointed the Town Manager with this task, voted to create the Committee, or appointed its 
members. Rather, sometime after the January 27, 2018, joint meeting, the Town Manager 
assembled various department heads and interested parties, including the assistant town manager, 
housing coordinator, planning director, health agent, zoning administrator, and building 
commissioner, as well as a member of the planning board, affordable housing committee, and 
water quality management committee to discuss recommendations for amending the Accessory 
Apartment bylaw. The Committee would make a recommendation to the Town Manager on 
proposed changes to the bylaw; the Town Manager would then finalize any proposed revisions 
and make a recommendation to both the Board of Selectmen and Planning Board for 
consideration.
On May 9, 2018, the complainant attended a Committee meeting in Town Hall. At the 
beginning of the meeting, she was asked to identify herself and then told to leave because she 
had not been invited. The complainant then left the meeting, and thereafter, filed this Open 
Meeting Law complaint.
DISCUSSION
A “public body” subject to the Open Meeting Law is any “multiple-member board, 
commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any 
county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person.
2

===PAGE 3===
constituted, established to serve a public purpose.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Supreme Judicial 
Court recognized an exemption to the Open Meeting Law in Connelly v. School Committee of 
Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991). In Connelly, the Court held that where an individual public 
official creates a committee to advise that person on a decision that he has the sole authority to 
make, the committee is not subject to the Open Meeting Law. Connelly, 409 Mass, at 235.
The complaint alleges that the Committee is a public body subject to the Open Meeting 
Law and thus violated the law by holding a meeting on May 9, 2018, that was inaccessible to the 
public. The Committee contends that it is not a public body where it was created by the Town 
Manager and it therefore falls within the Connelly exception.
To determine whether a multiple member entity is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, there are three factors we consider:
1. The entity must be “within” government and not excluded from the definition of 
“public body;”
2. The entity must be a “body” empowered to act collectively; and
3. The entity must serve a “public purpose.”
See OML 2010-1,3 Here, the Committee is within government because it was assembled by the 
Town Manager. It was also established to serve a public purpose, namely reviewing and 
evaluating the Accessory Apartment bylaw so that it might effectively broaden the range of 
housing choices in Falmouth.
The more difficult question is whether the Committee was a body empowered to act 
collectively. While it may have reached consensus on certain decisions, the Committee does not 
appear to have taken votes and had no quorum requirement. See OML 2019-135. The 
Committee was organized by the Town Manager and those chosen individuals volunteered to 
work together on revising the Accessory Apartment bylaw. See OML 2017-145; OML 2012-65. 
We find no evidence that the Board of Selectmen voted to create the Committee or even voted to 
direct the Town Manager to create the Committee. Ultimately, any revisions to the bylaw would 
be placed before the community at Town Meeting. We find that the Committee is not a public 
body subject to the Open Meeting Law and therefore did not violate the law by holding a 
meeting that was not open to the public.
Because we decide that the Committee is not a public body, we need not reach the 
question of whether the Committee would fall within the Connelly exception. However, we note 
that even if we had found the Committee to have satisfied all three of the factors above, the 
Committee would nonetheless not be subject to the Open Meeting Law as the Town Manager 
assembled the Committee on his own, was not directed to do so by the Board of Selectmen, and 
the Board of Selectmen never voted to create the Committee. See OML 2018-62.
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee was not a public body subject to 
the Open Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our offices or the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you
have any questions.
Sincerely,
cc: Mary Barry
KerryAnneKilcoyne
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
