===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 21, 2016 
OML 2016-38 
David Despres, Chair 
Fairhaven Historical Commission 
40 Center Street 
Fairhaven, MA 02719 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Dear Chair Despres: 
This office received a complaint from Karen Vilandry, dated December 24, 2015, 
alleging that the Fairhaven Historical Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission 
on December 7, 2015, and the Commission responded by letter dated December 17, 2015. In her 
complaint, Ms. Vilandry alleges that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) 
posting an insufficiently specific meeting notice; and (ii) discussing a topic during a meeting that 
was not listed on the meeting notice.' 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently specific meeting notice. However, we find that the Commission did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing an unanticipated topic during its December 2, 2015 
meeting. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Commission's 
response; and the request for further review filed with our office. We also spoke to the 
Commission Chair by telephone on March 2, 2016.2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On November 24, 2015, the Commission posted notice for 
a meeting to take place on Wednesday, December 2, 2015 at 7:00 P.M. The notice listed the 
location of the meeting as "FAIRHAVEN FIRE STATION" and the date of the meeting as 
"December 2, 2016[.]" Among the topics listed on the notice was "Other new business." This 
1 The complaint also alleges that the Commission members acted in a hostile manner towards members of the 
public. This allegation, even if true, would not constitute a violation of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. We therefore decline 
to review it. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). However, the 
Attorney General's Office encourages civility during meetings of public bodies. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
item did not include any description of what the Commission anticipated discussing during this 
portion of the meeting. 
On November 27, 2015—the Friday after Thanksgiving—a member of the public sent an 
e-mail to the Commission Chair requesting that a discussion of a sidewalk project be added to 
the agenda for the December 2, 2015 meeting. The sidewalk project did not originate with the 
Commission, and the Commission had no plans to take a position on the project. Therefore, the 
Chair anticipated that the individual would make a statement without the Commission discussing 
the matter substantively. The Commission did not update the meeting notice to include mention 
of the sidewalk project. The December 2, 2015 meeting was held as planned, and, during the 
portion of the meeting designated for "[ojther new business," the individual who had sent the e-
mail raised the issue of the sidewalk project. Two other members of the public voiced concerns 
about the project. A discussion ensued between the Commissioners and the members of the 
public present at the meeting. Ultimately, the Commission voted to support the sidewalk project. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The December 2. 2015 Meeting Notice Violated the Open Meeting Law. 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post a meeting notice 48 hours in 
advance of a meeting and include, "the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03. We 
generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public 
could read the topic and understand what the nature of the public body's discussion will be. See 
OML 2011-7. 
The complaint alleges that December 2, 2015 meeting notice was insufficiently specific 
because it failed to provide the street address of the meeting location and listed an incorrect 
meeting date. We agree. Generally, a public body should provide the street address of the 
meeting location. See OML 2015-133. The Commission stated in its response that there is only 
one fire station in Fairhaven. While this may be true, members of the public unfamiliar with the 
location of the fire station may wish to attend the meeting. For this reason, the notice did not 
comply with the Open Meeting Law. Furthermore, the notice misstated the date of the meeting, 
listing the year as 2016 instead of 2015. The Commission stated in its response that the incorrect 
year was a typographical error. While it is unlikely that any member of the public was genuinely 
confused by this error, the Commission plainly failed to state the date of the meeting on the 
notice. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). With respect to the incorrect date, we remind the Commission of 
its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
II. The Chair did not Anticipate Discussing the Sidewalk Project during the 
December 2. 2015 Meeting. 
The complaint also alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
list the discussion of the sidewalk project on the December 2, 2015 meeting notice. We find that 
the Commission Chair did not anticipate that the Commission would discuss the sidewalk project 
more than 48 hours in advance of the meeting at issue. The Chair was notified by e-mail on 
2 
===PAGE 3===
November 27, 2015 that a member of the public wished to discuss the sidewalk project at the 
December 2, 2015 meeting. However, the Chair did not believe that the Commission would 
have any reason to discuss it. The meeting minutes demonstrate that the Commissioners 
discussed the sidewalk project after three members raised concerns. Because the Chair did not 
anticipate that the sidewalk project would be discussed at the meeting, the Commission did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law in this respect. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).3 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law. We order the Commission's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to 
violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Karen Vilandry 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 We note that the use of a topic on a meeting notice such as "New Business" is permissible when intended as a 
placeholder for topics not reasonably anticipated by the chair. See OML 2015-127. However, where the chair 
anticipates discussing a particular topic at least 48 hours in advance of the meeting, it must be listed on the meeting 
notice. 
3 