===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTO RN EY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
December 27, 2011 
OML 2011 - 55 
Darren Klein 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint Against Stoughton School Committee 
Dear Attorney Klein: 
This office received a complaint from Dr. Erdem Ural dated June 30, 2011 
alleging a violation of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Dr. Ural filed a 
complaint with the Stoughton School Committee (the "Committee") on May 23, 2011 
alleging that the Committee "failed to create and maintain accurate minutes of its 
meetings held on March 1, 2011." Your response to the May 23rd complaint, on behalf 
of the Committee, was received by this office on June 3, 2011. 
We find that the Committee's March 1, 2011 open session minutes were 
sufficiently accurate and detailed. However, we find that the executive session minutes 
from the same meeting are not sufficiently detailed. In reaching this determination we 
reviewed the May 23, 2011 complaint filed with the Committee, the Committee's June 3, 
2011 response, and the June 30, 2011 complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we 
reviewed the open and executive session minutes of the Committee's March 1, 2011 
meeting, as well as draft minutes with changes proposed by Dr. Ural. Finally, we 
reviewed a video recording of the open session of the Committee's March 1, 2011 
meeting. 
FACTS 
The Committee's open session minutes for its March 1, 2011 meeting consist of 
four pages that describe each topic discussed and all votes and actions taken. The final 
approved minutes do not include language suggested by Dr. Ural, which he believed 
more clearly reflected his comments on a number of matters. 
1 
===PAGE 2===
During the March 1, 2011 meeting, the Committee entered executive session at 
9:15 p.m. for the purpose of "a collective bargaining update and grievance update." The 
minutes contain a heading for "Contract Negotiations" followed by two brief sentences, 
and a heading for "Grievance" followed by three brief sentences. The Committee 
adjourned at 10:40 p.m. Prior to the Committee's approval of the executive session 
minutes, Dr. Ural proposed changes that he believed more clearly reflected his comments 
on the contract negotiations, but the Committee did not approve the suggested changes. 
Both the open and executive session minutes were approved at the Committee's 
April 26, 2011 meeting. It is our understanding that the executive session minutes have 
not been publicly released. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and 
place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list 
of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions 
taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). While 
our office enforces the law requiring public bodies to create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, we generally only review minutes for substantial compliance 
with the accuracy requirement. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes 
should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what 
occurred. 
Although the Committee did not include certain comments from Dr. Ural in the 
final version of its March 1, 2011 open session minutes, we believe the Committee 
substantially complied with the requirement that it provide an accurate and sufficiently 
detailed summary of the discussion. The minutes may not cover every remark and 
opinion presented at the meeting, but the Committee provided what the law requires. We 
encourage public bodies to include dissenting or minority opinions, particularly when a 
request is made to include remarks in the minutes. However, the content of meeting 
minutes is left to the discretion of the public body so long as it substantially complies 
with the requirement that the minutes be accurate and provides a summary of the 
discussion of each topic. 
After reviewing the Committee's executive session minutes, however, we find 
that the Committee did not include the minimum detail required by the law. The 
Committee entered executive session at 9:15 p.m. and adjourned at 10:40 p.m. The 
minutes contain a heading for "Contract Negotiations" followed by two brief sentences, 
and a heading for "Grievance" followed by three brief sentences. For a discussion of at 
least two topics that lasted one hour and twenty-five minutes, the level of detail provided 
by the Committee is not sufficient. We are unable to determine whether Dr. Ural's 
2 
===PAGE 3===
proposed edits to the minutes are accurate as the minutes are sparse and there is no 
recording of what occurred. 
For the reasons stated above, we order the Committee to draft and approve 
minutes for the March 1, 2011 executive session that contain a summary of each 
discussion, with sufficient detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what 
occurred. We encourage the Committee to include both minority and majority opinions 
in the summary of the discussion reflected in the final minutes. We do not order the 
Committee to release the executive session minutes at this time, unless it has concluded 
that publication would no longer defeat the lawful purposes for the executive session. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee's March 1, 2011 open session minutes substantially 
complied with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. We find that the Committee's 
March 1, 2011executive session minutes are not sufficiently detailed to meet the 
requirements of the law. We order the Committee to draft and approve a new set of 
executive session minutes within 30 days. 
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this 
letter, please do not hesitate to contact me at the number below. 
Sincerely, 
11/1‘A4 
/Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
cc: Dr. Erdem Ural 
3 