===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
September 20, 2019 
OML 2019-119
Joel Bard, Esq.
KP Law
101 Arch Street
Boston, MA 02110
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Bard:
This office received a complaint from George Roberts, Town Clerk for the Town of 
Becket, on April 26, 20191, alleging that the Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or 
about March 6, and the Board responded by letter dated March 25. In his complaint, Mr. Roberts 
alleges that a quorum of the Board met with the Town Administrator outside of a properly 
noticed meeting.
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this matter. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged. 
In reaching our determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response, the 
request for further review, and the meeting minutes of the Board’s March 22 meeting.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body; thus, two 
members constitutes a quorum of the Board. On February 11, William Elovirta, Chair of the 
Board, and Michael Lavery, Vice Chair of the Board, met with the Town Administrator, William 
Caldwell, in the Town Administrator’s office. The Town Administrator informed the Board 
members that the Town Accountant was leaving and asked the Board members for background 
information on the position. Appointment of the Town Accountant is subject to approval by the 
Board.
At its March 22 meeting, under the topic “Town Administrator Personnel Update - Town 
Accountant,” the Board discussed the circumstances surrounding the February 11 meeting with
o
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates are in 2019.

===PAGE 2===
the Town Administrator and this Open Meeting Law Complaint and voted “to specify that the 
Board of Selectmen did not deliberate and did not take any votes when talking to the Town 
Administrator on that particular day.”
DISCUSSION
L The Board of Selectmen Violated the Open Meeting Law When a Quorum of the Board Met
Outside of a Properly Noticed Meeting and Discussed a Matter Within the Board’s
Jurisdiction.
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public 
body be noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. The law defines 
“deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction.” Id. For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the 
members of a public body. Id.
The complaint alleges that, on February 11, a quorum of the Board met outside of a 
properly noticed meeting. The Board argues in its response that because “the Town 
Administrator is responsible for the ‘efficient administration of all departments, commissions, 
boards and offices, except for the Board of Selectmen’ and appoints the position at issue, with 
the approval of the Board of Selectmen[,] ... that at the time the update was provided by the 
Town Administrator, the matter was within the jurisdiction of the Town Administrator and did 
not require Board Action.” However, even within this response, the Board acknowledges that the 
appointment of the Town Accountant falls within its jurisdiction because such appointment is 
subject to the Board’s approval. The temporal distinction that first the Town Administrator 
appoints the position and then the Board approves the appointment does not mean that the topic 
of appointing the Town Accountant fell outside the Board’s jurisdiction. Furthermore, since 
“deliberation” encompasses any oral communication among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction, the conversation itself constituted a deliberation, even if 
no decisions were reached or votes taken. Accordingly, we find that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by discussing the matter outside of a noticed meeting.
2. The Board’s March 22 Discussion did not Cure the Open Meeting Law Violation.
The Board argues that its March 22 discussion under the topic “Town Administrator 
Personnel Update - Town Accountant” cured any Open Meeting Law violation that occurred on 
February 11. Although we commend the Board for attempting to remedy the violation by 
discussing in open session the circumstances surrounding the February 11 meeting, this was not 
sufficient to address the violation committed. See Pearson v. Board of Selectmen of 
Longmeadow. 49 Mass. App. Ct. 119, 125 (2000), (citing Tolar v. School Board of Liberty 
County, 398 So.2d 427, 429 (Fla. 1981)) (noting violations may be cured by independent, 
deliberative action, that is “not merely a ceremonial acceptance ... and ... a perfunctory
2

===PAGE 3===
ratification of secret decisions”); OML 2014-722. After review of the minutes for the March 22 
meeting, we find that the Board discussed the circumstances surrounding the February 11 
meeting with the Town Administrator and this Open Meeting Law Complaint and voted “to 
specify that the Board of Selectmen did not deliberate and did not take any votes when talking to 
the Town Administrator on that particular day.” This discussion addressed the February 11 
meeting, not the Town Accountant vacancy which was the original topic that was improperly 
discussed at the unnoticed meeting. Thus, the Board’s subsequent actions did not remedy the 
violation that occurred. See OML 2019-102; OML 2016-49; OML 2013-195.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
meeting outside of a properly noticed meeting. We order immediate and future compliance with 
the Open Meeting Law. We also order the Board to create minutes for its February 11 meeting to 
the best of its ability, through whatever means are available, including the memories and 
individual notations of the attendees. Compliance with this order should occur within sixty (60) 
days of receipt of this letter, and the Committee should certify compliance with this order to our 
office in writing, pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07(4). We caution that similar violations in the future 
may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. 940 CMR 29.02.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.
cc: George  Roberts
Becket Board of Selectmen
lizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3
