===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
January 31, 2025 
  
OML 2025 – 11     
 
VIA EMAIL  
  
William Meeker 
Chair, Conservation Commission 
Town of Brookfield 
6 Central St. 
Brookfield, MA 01506 
 
concomm@brookfieldma.us 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Chair Meeker:  
 
This office received three complaints from Christopher Kelleher on December 3, 2024, 
alleging that the Brookfield Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  Mr. Kelleher originally filed two of his complaints with 
the Commission on October 25 (“the October 25 Complaints”) and the third complaint on 
November 1 (“the November 1 Complaint”).  On behalf of the Commission, you responded to 
the three complaints by email on January 6, 2025.  The October 25 Complaints allege that at the 
Commission’s October 23 meeting, Vice Chair Sarah Campbell sought to chill government 
oversight by attacking the complainant’s character in open session, and by expressing a desire to 
stop him from filing Open Meeting Law complaints.  The November 1 Complaint alleges that 
notice of the October 23 meeting was not sufficiently specific as it failed to list as a topic Vice 
Chair Campbell’s discussion of the complainant’s character. 
 
Following our review, we find the Commission did not violate the O
 pen Meeting Law as 
alleged in the November 1 Complaint.  We decline to review the allegations of the October 25 
Complaints.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the 
Commission’s response to the complaints, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We 
also reviewed the original and amended notices and the minutes of the Commission’s October 23 
meeting.  We communicated with Mr. Kelleher via email.  Finally, we listened to an audio 
recording of the October 23 meeting.
2 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2024 unless otherwise indicated. 
2 We accessed the recording at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l3SjkZpJGn8.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  On October 2, the Commission posted notice of a meeting 
to be held on October 23.  As amended on October 15, the notice included the topic “Open 
Meeting Law Complaints – Christopher Kelleher.”
3  Prior to the meeting, Commission Chair 
William Meeker4 drafted responses to four pending complaints to read to the other members 
during the meeting.  The October 23 meeting took place as scheduled.  Approximately one hour 
into the meeting, the Board reached the topic of Mr. Kelleher’s Open Meeting Law complaints.  
Before he shared his proposed responses, Chair Meeker asked if any other members had 
anything to say about the complaints.  Vice Chair Campbell indicated that she planned to 
comment on the particulars of each complaint in turn.   
 
Chair Meeker then addressed the complaints, one by one, identifying the complaint, 
reading his proposed response, and then eliciting feedback from fellow Commission members.  
Vice Chair Campbell commented about most of the complaints after each of Chair Meeker’s 
proposed responses.  After outlining the penultimate response, Chair Meeker added “So that’s 
what I’ve got.  You got more coming?”
5  Vice Chair Campbell responded “Yeah.  You want to 
hear my spiel?”  She then read from a prepared statement, speaking critically of the complainant, 
including of his tenure as chair of the Commission.  For example, she alleged that there arose a 
conflict of interest between an applicant before the Commission and the complainant when he 
served as chair.  She also maintained that the complainant has engaged in a pattern of 
harassment, including via text messages and emails directed to Commission members.  At the 
conclusion of Vice Chair Campbell’s comments, which lasted one to two minutes, Chair Meeker 
stated that Vice Chair Campbell’s comments were her own opinion and were “nothing we plan 
on acting on.”  Vice Chair Campbell agreed that her remarks would not be incorporated into the 
Commission’s responses. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We decline to review the allegations of the October 25 Complaints. 
 
The October 25 Complaints allege that Vice Chair Campbell disparaged the 
complainant’s character in open session at the October 23 meeting.  The Division’s review is 
limited to compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  In general, the Open Meeting Law does not 
govern the content of a public body’s discussions. See OML 2018-43, n. 3; OML 2020-167.6  
Although we certainly discourage uncivil and unprofessional behavior, an allegation of 
unprofessional conduct or incivility does not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  
See OML 2024 -88; OML 2020-36; OML 2019-166; OML Declination 6-28-16 (Kingston Board 
of Selectmen). 
 
3 The notice was further amended prior to the October 23 meeting.  However, the discussion item “Open Meeting 
Law Complaints – Christopher Kelleher” remained.   
4 For clarity, you are referred to in the third person. 
5 Although we do not have the benefit of a video recording, we assume this question was directed to Vice Chair 
Campbell because she had commented on the other Open Meeting Law complaints.  
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
The October 25 Complaints also allege that any discussion of the complainant’s character 
should have occurred in executive session, pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1).  The Open 
Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an open session, with 
some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  A public body may enter an executive, or closed, 
session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, provided that it 
follows certain procedural requirements set out in the Law.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b).  One such 
purpose is Purpose 1, which allows a public body to convene in executive session to “discuss the 
reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence of 
an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought 
against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1).  
Although the Open Meeting Law allows a public body to enter executive session for one or more 
of the ten enumerated purposes, it never requires a public body to enter executive session.  See 
OML 2022-177; OML 2021-40; OML 2019-160; OML 2012-32 (“While a public body may 
choose to discuss an individual’s reputation and character behind closed doors, there is no 
requirement that such a discussion occur in executive session, and the subject of the discussion 
has no right under the Open Meeting Law to demand that they do so.”).  Even if a particular 
matter may be permissible for discussion in executive session, a public body may choose to 
discuss the matter publicly in open session instead.  See OML 2023-14.  Discussion of a person’s 
character and discussion of Open Meeting Law Complaints, for example, may be discussed in 
executive session but need not be.  Because the October 25 Complaints articulate allegations 
that, even if true, would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law, we decline to review 
them. 
 
II. Notice of the October 23 meeting was sufficiently specific. 
 
 A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Notices must include “a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  Id.  The 
list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s 
discussion.  See OML 2023-199; OML 2019-134; OML 2015- 35.  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an 
informed decision whether to attend the meeting to observe the discussion regarding a topic of 
interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22.   
 
Mr. Kelleher alleges that Vice Chair Campbell’s discussion of his character, including his 
alleged conflict of interest when he served as chair of the Commission, should have been 
included as a topic of discussion on the notice of the October 23 meeting.  We recently reviewed 
similar allegations raised in a separate complaint filed by Mr. Kelleher, relative to the 
Commission’s August 28 meeting.  We explained in response to that complaint that the 
discussion of Mr. Kelleher arose out of the Commission’s discussion of Open Meeting Law 
complaints that were listed as a topic in the meeting notice.  See OML 2024-261.  Similarly, 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
here, Vice Chair Campbell’s comments were an outgrowth of the topic on the notice, Mr. 
Kelleher’s Open Meeting Law complaints.  Where a public body’s discussion naturally flows 
from its consideration of the posted agenda topic, the notice is sufficient to comply with the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2021-39; OML 2019-70; OML 2018-14.   
 
We note further that the Chair is not required to anticipate the course of deliberations, and 
the Law does not require the meeting notice to list all tangential issues related to a particular 
topic.  See OML 2021-39; OML 2019-102; OML 2016-120.  The Law does not require the chair 
to guess what will occur at a meeting.  See OML 2024-262; OML 2020-55; OML 2018-134.  To 
the extent that Vice Chair Campbell’s comments at the October 23 meeting strayed from the 
notice topic, for example, when she criticized Christopher Kelleher’s performance as 
Commission chair, we find that her comments were not anticipated by the chair.  Vice Chair 
Campbell spoke for less than two minutes and her comments did not lead to further discussion by 
the Commission.  Indeed, Chair Meeker explicitly clarified that Vice Chair Campbell’s 
comments were only her own and would not be incorporated into the responses to the Open 
Meeting Law complaints.  The complainant suggests that Chair Meeker’s question to Vice Chair 
Campbell (“You got more coming?”) is evidence that he had advance notice of and anticipated 
the Vice Chair’s comments and that they should have been included on the notice.  We find, 
based on the audio recording, that Chair Meeker asked the question because Vice Chair 
Campbell had already stated at the beginning of the discussion that she would address each 
complaint as it came up, and she had offered comments on the prior complaints.  Based upon our 
review of all the information before us, we find that even if Vice Chair’s comments did not fall 
within the discussion topic “Open Meeting Law Complaints – Christopher Kelleher,” they were 
not reasonably anticipated by the chair.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meetin
g Law as alleged.  We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be 
resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Commission.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Christopher Kelleher (via email: ) 
 Brookfield Town Administrator (via email: townadministrator@brookfieldma.us) 
 Brookfield Conservation Commission (via email: msee ry@brookfieldma.us) 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
 
 
 