===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 1, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 115 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
The Honorable Jennifer A. Macksey 
Mayor, City of North Adams 
MayorMacksey@northadams-ma.gov 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mayor Macksey: 
 
This office received a complaint from Marie Harpin on May 19, 2025, alleging that the 
North Adams School Building Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on March 11, 
and you responded on behalf of the Committee by email dated March 19. The complaint alleges 
that the Committee approved minutes of its meeting on January 21 that are not sufficiently 
detailed, as the minutes fail to distinguish which Committee members participated virtually, fail 
to capture the substance of the presentations delivered during the “Approval of Invoices” and 
“Old Business” portions of the meeting, omit a list of documents and exhibits used at the 
meeting, and fail to specify the location of the meeting.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Committee’s response, the request for further review, a video recording of the Committee’s 
January 21 meeting,2 the original and revised minutes of the Committee’s January 21 meeting, 
and the minutes of the Committee’s February 18 meeting.3 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The video recording of the January 21 meeting can be found at https://www.napsk12.org/documents/about - 
us/school-building-committee/2024-2025-school-building-committee-videos/775836 
3 The original and revised minutes of the January 21 meeting and the minutes of the February 18 meeting can be 
found at https://www.napsk12.org/documents/about-us/school-building-committee/2024-2025-school-building-
committee-meeting-minutes/669548 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee held a meeting on January 21. Six 
Committee members participated in the meeting remotely; other members attended the meeting 
in person. During the “Approval of Invoices” agenda item, the Chair briefly read the titles and 
amounts of two invoices and the Committee voted to approve them. The Committee then moved 
to the “Old Business” agenda item. The Chair delivered the “MSBA update” for approximately 
one minute. A second speaker delivered the “Budget update” and “Design-Development update” 
for approximately nine minutes. A third speaker delivered a “Designer update” through a 
PowerPoint presentation for approximately fifteen minutes and responded to questions for 
another seventeen minutes. 
 
At its meeting on February 18, the Committee approved minutes of the January 21 
meeting. The “Call to Order” portion of the January 21 meeting minutes does not distinguish 
between remote and in-person participants. The “Approval of Invoices” portion of the meeting 
minutes details the invoice titles, amounts, and the subsequent vote to approve them. The “Old 
Business” portion of the meeting minutes lists the name of each speaker and the general topic 
they discussed. The minutes do not include a list of documents and exhibits used at the meeting 
and do not specify the location of the meeting. 
 
After the Open Meeting Law complaint was filed, the Committee revised the minutes to 
include the location of the meeting, distinguish between remote and in-person participants, and 
expand the description of each “update” in the “Old Business” portion of the meeting. The 
revised minutes, like the originally approved minutes, do not include a list of documents and 
exhibits used at the meeting.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A § 22(a). The minutes must set forth 
“the date, time and place [of the meeting], the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” Id. 
When reviewing meeting minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for 
substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2024-189; OML 2018-151.
4 
Substantial compliance means that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that 
a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear 
understanding of what occurred. Although a transcript is not required and the minutes do not 
need to include every remark or opinion presented, minutes must include a summary of the 
discussions that took place during the meeting. See OML 2021-190; OML 2021-137.  
 
The Open Meeting Law regulations further require that “[a]t the start of the meeting, the 
chair shall announce the name of any member who will be participating remotely. This 
information shall also be recorded in the meeting minutes.”  940 CMR 29.10(7)(b). The 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
complaint alleges that the minutes of the January 21 meeting, as originally approved, are 
insufficient as they fail to distinguish between in-person and remote meeting participants. We 
agree that the minutes failed to specify which members of the Committee participated remotely 
at the January 21 meeting. 
 
The complaint further alleges that the minutes of the January 21 meeting, as originally 
approved, are not sufficiently detailed as they fail to summarize presentations and comments 
made during the “Approval of Invoices” and “Old Business” portions of the meeting. During the 
“Approval of Invoices” portion of the meeting, the chair read the title of two invoices, the 
amount of the invoices, and called for a vote of approval. There was no discussion regarding the 
purpose or substance of the invoices; therefore, the minutes appropriately do not include such 
detail. Meeting minutes need not—and should not—include detail beyond what was discussed at 
the meeting. See OML 2023-202; OML 2023-76. Thus, we find that the “Approval of Invoices” 
portion of the meeting was accurately reflected in the meeting minutes.  
 
During the “Old Business” portion of the meeting, the Committee discussed four 
presentations for approximately forty-five minutes. However, the minutes of the Committee’s 
meeting, as originally approved, only briefly describe the general subject matter of the 
presentations with no summary of the substance of the discussions. The complainant asserts that 
the minutes, therefore, fail to capture the content of the presentations and comments made during 
the meeting. We agree that the minutes, as originally approved, did not include an accurate 
summary of the presentations and comments made during the January 21 meeting. As a result, a 
member of the public who did not attend the meeting could not have understood from the 
original minutes what occurred at the meeting. In creating and approving insufficiently detailed 
minutes, the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law.  
 
The complaint also alleges that the minutes of the Committee’s January 21 meeting, as 
originally approved, are not sufficient as they fail to specify the location of the meeting. We 
agree and find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include the 
location of the meeting in the minutes. 
 
After receiving the complaint, the Committee revised the minutes of its January 21 
meeting to specify the location of the meeting and which members joined the meeting remotely. 
The revised minutes also slightly expand the summaries of the four presentations during the “Old 
Business” portion of the meeting. Although not expressly raised in the complaint because the 
minutes were revised after the complaint was filed, we note that even as revised the minutes 
include insufficient summaries of some discussions during the “Old Business” portion of the 
meeting. Specifically, the minutes should include (1) more detail in the “Budget update” about 
the MSBA delays, (2) in the “Design-Development update,” a summary of the discussion on 
fluctuating estimates due to adjustments in the design contingency and pending updates from 
hazardous material consultants, (3) in the “Designer update,” a summary of the actions discussed 
in the PowerPoint, including the recap (site investigations, working group meetings) and current 
activities (code compliance, site layout and utilities, etc.), and (4) a summary of the questions 
and answers session after the “Designer update” presentation (ceiling leaks, lighting, traffic 
layout, changing-table facilities, and courtyard access).  
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the minutes of the January 21 meeting are not 
sufficiently detailed as they fail to include a list of documents used at the meeting. We agree that 
the originally approved and revised minutes both fail to include “a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting,” in violation of the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The 
“Budget update,” “Design-Development update” and “Designer update” all included documents 
or PowerPoint presentations that were presented and discussed during the meeting, and these 
documents and presentations should have been listed in the minutes. See OML 2014-67.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by creating insufficient minutes of its meeting on January 21. We order the Committee’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and we caution that similar future 
violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Furthermore, we order the 
Committee, within sixty (60) days of the date of this letter, to further amend the minutes of the 
January 21 meeting, in accordance with the guidance provided above, to include (1) a summary 
of the presentations delivered in the “Old Business” portion of the meeting and (2) a list of 
documents and exhibits used at the meeting.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
 
Sincerely, 
        
        
       Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
Assisted by: Rishab Ramamurthy, Legal Intern 
 
 
cc:  Marie Harpin (via email: ) 
North Adams City Clerk (via email: city_clerk@northadams-ma.gov) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
