===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
April 4, 2018 
OML 2018-44 
Deborah Steenland 
Deputy General Counsel 
Department of Elementary and Secondary Education 
75 Pleasant Street 
Maiden, MA 02148-4906 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Steenland: 
This office received a complaint from Dr. Marianela Rivera on August 7, alleging that the 
Lawrence School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on May 11, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated May 31. The complaint alleges that 
Jeffrey Riley, receiver for the Lawrence Public School District, discussed topics that were not 
listed on the meeting notice during the Committee's May 10 meeting. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that Mr. Riley is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law and 
therefore could not have violated the law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint, the Committee's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our 
office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notice of, and open session minutes from, 
the Committee's May 10 meeting; as well as a video recording of that meeting.2 Finally, we 
spoke with you by telephone on December 18 and March 5, 2018; and with the complainant by 
telephone on March 23, 2018.3 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 The video recording is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WAqTPlBkdUw&index=4&t=0s&list 
=PLSDHIwxxu9oDgkgGqbexl6aQjMgplq_li. 
3 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a seven member public body of which 
the complainant is a member. 
In November 2011, the Lawrence Public School District was placed in state receivership 
by the Massachusetts Board of Elementary and Secondary Education. Upon receivership, the 
Commissioner of Elementary and Secondary Education appoints a receiver, either a non-profit 
entity or an individual, who is vested with the powers of the school district superintendent and 
the local school committee.4 In January 2012, Jeffrey Riley was appointed receiver of the 
Lawrence Public School District. As receiver, Mr. Riley regularly met with the Committee to 
provide updates and developments within the district and answer questions from the Committee. 
On May 4, the Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on Wednesday, May 10 
at 6:30 P.M. The notice listed four topics: Call to Order, Communications and Reports, Public 
Participation, and Adjournment. Under Communications and Reports, several specific topics 
were listed including LPS Happenings (PSA Contest & Winner), Updates (MSBA projects, end-
of-year celebrations, budget, DESE), Other, and Questions. 
The May 10 meeting was held as planned and the Committee discussed the noticed 
topics. Towards the end of the meeting, the complainant requested that the Lawrence High 
School library be added to the next agenda. Mr. Riley responded "noted." He then commented 
on the media story relating to the library suggesting that the story was not a fair and accurate 
reflection of the situation. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
law defines "public body" as "a multiple-member board, commission, committee or 
subcommittee ... however created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to 
serve a public purpose[.]" G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Here, the complaint alleges that Receiver Jeffrey 
Riley discussed two topics during the May 10 Committee meeting that were not listed on the 
meeting notice. Attorney Deborah Steenland suggests that, even though Mr. Riley "has all the 
authority of the school committee," he is an individual and therefore not a public body subject to 
the Open Meeting Law. 
In November 2011, the Lawrence Public School District was placed in state receivership 
because it was determined to be chronically underperforming. Until the district is no longer 
determined to be chronically underperforming, Mr. Riley retains all the powers of the 
superintendent and school committee, including the power to manage and establish educational 
goals and policies for the district. See G.L. c. 69, § IK; G.L c. 71, § 38. However, because Mr. 
Riley is an individual, not a multi-member board or committee, we conclude that he is not 
4 G.L. c. 69, § IK provides that upon a declaration that a school district is chronically underperforming, a receiver 
shall be designated for that district with all the powers of the superintendent and school committee. The receiver 
shall be a non-profit entity or an individual. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
subject to the Open Meeting Law and therefore could not have violated it. See OML Declination 
12-18-15 (Lawrence City Clerk).5 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Mr. Riley is not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Marianela Rivera 
Lawrence School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
K . 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 