===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 15, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 208 
 
VIA EMAIL  
 
Hayley Reifeiss 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
hreifeiss@k-plaw.com
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Reifeiss: 
 
This office received a complaint from Cory Bombredi on September 8, 2025, alleging 
that the Barre DPW Commission (the “Commission”) and the Barre Select Board (the “Board”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with 
the Commission and the Board (collectively, the “Public Bodies”) on August 8, and you 
responded on behalf of the Public Bodies by letter dated August 27.
1  The complaint alleges that 
notice of the Commission’s July 14 meeting was not sufficiently specific, and that the Board 
deliberated about a contract outside of a posted meeting.     
 
Following our review, we find that the Public Bodies did not violate the Open Meeting in 
the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint, the response of the 
Public Bodies, and the complainant’s request for further review filed with our office.  We also 
reviewed the notice and minutes of the Commission’s July 14 meeting.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On June 10, the Commission posted notice of a meeting to 
take place on July 14.  As last revised on July 9, the notice included the topic “Discuss the 
contract for design repair for Valley Road Bridge.”  When the Commission reached that topic 
during the July 14 meeting, Department of Public Works Superintendent Timothy Batchelor 
spoke about the contract to design repairs to the Valley Road Bridge.  The dollar value of the 
 
1 Unless stated otherwise, all dates refer to the year 2025. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
contract was $20,000.  Prior to the meeting, Superintendent Batchelor had provided copies of the 
contract to Commission members Mark Regienus and Richard Stevens for their review.  In 
addition to being members of the Commission, Mr. Regienus and Mr. Stevens also were 
members of the three-member Board.  Following discussion, the Commission voted to authorize 
Superintendent Batchelor to move forward with repair of the bridge. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. Notice of the Commission’s July 14 meeting was sufficiently specific. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider 
a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic 
and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2025-184; 
OML 2019-134; OML 2015- 35.2  The Open Meeting Law requires that the notice describe 
topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an informed decision whether to 
attend the meeting in order to observe the discussion regarding a topic of interest.  See OML 
2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22.  A public body need not list each and every detail about 
a topic to comply with the Law’s requirements.  See OML 2022-98; OML 2020-132; OML 
2019-134.  
 
 W e find that the topic “Discuss the contract for design repair for Valley Road Bridge” 
was sufficiently specific to reasonably inform the public of the anticipated nature of the 
Commission’s discussion and would enable a member of the public to make an informed 
decision whether to attend the meeting if they were interested in the topic.  See OML 2013-152 
(finding the topic “Consider and sign contract with ModSpace for the lease of modular unit” 
sufficiently specific).  The notice at issue here stands in contrast to notices that we have found 
inadequately described discussions of town property.  See, e.g., OML 2024-11 (finding notice 
topic “Temporary Housing Fire Department Renovation - Chief Harris and Director Larivee” 
insufficiently described discussion of temporary relocation of fire department to the so-called 
House of Art and subsequent demolition of the House of Art); OML 2023-100 (finding notice 
topic “Authorize ARPA Expenditure” insufficiently described discussion of using ARPA 
funding to demolish Old Town Hall building).   
 
Finally, we address the complainant’s concern that the notice did not sufficiently apprise 
the public that the Commission might vote to move forward with the bridge repair.  We have 
consistently explained that it is reasonably foreseeable that a public body may take action and 
hold a vote following discussion of a topic listed on a meeting notice; the Open Meeting Law 
does not require that the notice separately indicate the possibility of a vote.  See, e.g., OML 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
2024-156; OML 2019-157; OML 2015-66; OML 2012-75.  Because the notice was sufficiently 
specific, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law.   
 
II. The Board did not deliberate outside of a posted meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
that they be open to the public, unless a lawful executive session is properly convened.  G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 20(a)- (b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Open 
Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  However, “deliberation” does “not include the distribution 
of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or 
the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no 
opinion of a member is expressed.” Id. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when 
Superintendent Batchelor forwarded copies of the bridge repair contract to two Commission 
members who also serve on the Board and constitute a quorum of the three-member Board.  
Assuming arguendo that the contract was sent to Mr. Regienus or Mr. Stevens in their capacity 
as members of the Board,
3 we find that there was no deliberation as the contract was sent by 
Superintendent Batchelor, who is not a member of the Board, and there is no evidence that Mr. 
Regienus or Mr. Stevens participated in the drafting of the contract or that they discussed the 
contract outside of a posted meeting.  We find, therefore, that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  See OML 2021-112 (noting that “individual public officials are not public bodies 
and therefore are not subject to the Open Meeting Law” and finding that “emails sent by staff to 
the Board do not qualify as deliberation, even if they are sent to a quorum or more members of 
the Board.”); OML 2018-89 (finding that communication between town administrator and 
member of public body does not constitute deliberation where it does not otherwise reach a 
quorum).   
 
  
 
3 All indications are that the contract was sent to the two individuals in their capacity as members of the 
Commission.  There is nothing before us suggesting that the contract was a matter before the Board.   Moreover, as 
noted above, distribution of a document to be discussed at a meeting does not constitute deliberation, so long as no 
opinion of a member is expressed.   
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Barre DPW Commission and the Barre 
Select Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged by the complaint.  We now 
consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does 
not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Commission, the Board, or our 
office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Cory Bombredi (via email: ) 
 Barre DPW Commission (via email: dpw@townofbarre.com) 
 Barre Selectboard (via email: mmarshall@townofbarre.com) 
 Melanie Jackson, Town Administrator (via email: townadmin@townofbarre.com) 
 Barre Town Clerk (via email: clerk@townofbarre.com) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
