===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
March 14, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 32 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
David J. Doneski, Esq. 
KP Law 
ddoneski@k-plaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Doneski: 
 
This office received two complaints—one from Antonio Segalla and one from Daniel 
Seitz—on August 16, 2022,
1 alleging that the Great Barrington Selectboard (the “Board”), and 
specifically its Chair and Vice Chair, violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaints were originally filed with the Board on June 17, and you responded on behalf of 
the Board by letters dated July 8. The complaints allege that the Board created a subcommittee, 
and that the subcommittee failed to post notice of its meetings and held meetings that were not 
open to the public. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board created a subcommittee, and that the 
subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the Board’s responses, the requests for further 
review, video recordings of the Board’s March 7 and May 23 meetings,
2 and a July 5 email sent 
from Board member Ed Abrahams to complainant Daniel Seitz.  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. During the Board’s March 7 meeting Christopher 
Rembold, Assistant Town Manager and Director of Planning, presented a draft short-term rental 
bylaw to the Board. After a lengthy discussion of the proposed bylaw, the Board reached an 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 Video recordings of the Board’s meetings may be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLIiD8BG2vkq4AKFMOBvrIi80M_9gg37sg. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
impasse regarding certain provisions. At that point, the chair of the Board, Stephen Bannon, 
asked what the Board wanted to do to move forward on this matter. Mr. Rembold proposed that, 
if the Board wanted, he could work directly with two members on a new draft bylaw to bring 
back to the Board for further consideration.  
 
Thereafter, the Board’s vice chair, Leigh Davis, volunteered to work with Mr. Rembold 
and another Board member to revise the draft bylaw. Board member Ed Abrahams recommended 
that Chair Bannon be the second Board member to assist in this effort, and Chair Bannon agreed. 
After some additional discussion, as Chair Bannon began to turn to public comment, Vice Chair 
Davis asked what the Board had decided to do with respect to revising the draft bylaw. Chair 
Bannon responded, “Ed nominated me, you volunteered, and we [will] work with Chris to try to 
bring something back.” Thereafter, the Board again discussed how many and which members of 
the Board should participate in the effort to revise the draft bylaw. From there the discussion 
turned to further disagreement regarding the substance of the draft bylaw until Chair Bannon 
stated “let’s move ahead. Leigh and I will work with Chris on this, and let’s move ahead.”  
 
During the Board’s May 23 meeting it again discussed the proposed short-term rental 
bylaw. During this discussion, Mr. Rembold explained that he had left the Board’s March 7 
meeting with “a charge to work with the Chair and Vice Chair to develop a draft” bylaw based 
on the Board’s March 7 discussion. Mr. Rembold then reviewed highlights from the revised draft 
bylaw and noted that the revised draft was the result of discussion between himself, the Town 
Manager Mark Pruhenski, Chair Bannon, and Vice Chair Davis.  
 
In response to questions about the removal of a clause from previous drafts of the bylaw, 
Chair Bannon explained that “the Select Board, as Chris has pointed out, had asked Leigh and I, 
Chris and Mark, mainly Leigh and I, to come with a draft to bring back to the full Select Board.” 
After further discussion, the Board voted to approve the draft bylaw, without further changes, for 
public comment. After hearing public comment regarding the short-term rental bylaw, the Board 
voted to include the bylaw on the warrant for the Town’s upcoming Town Meeting. The bylaw 
was passed at the June 6 Annual Town Meeting.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the s
 ecrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). To that end, the Open Meeting Law requires “[e]xcept in 
an emergency, in addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays and 
legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Additionally, the Open Meeting Law requires that, unless 
lawfully convened in executive session, all meetings of a public body must be open to the public. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). 
 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
law defines “public body” as “a multiple-member board, commission, committee or 
subcommittee . . . however created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to 
serve a public purpose[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A subcommittee is a “multiple-member body 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
created to advise or make recommendations to a public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Whether  a 
public body created a subcommittee is a fact-intensive inquiry and our analysis hinges on the 
public body’s actions and whether it intended to create a multiple-member body. Compare, e.g., 
OML 2017-111 (finding that no subcommittee was created where a single volunteer was sought 
to work on a matter and another board member thereafter, on their own initiative, volunteered to 
assist), with OML 2018-23 (finding that a subcommittee was created where multiple volunteers 
were sought to work on a matter and after two individuals volunteered, the public body, by 
consensus, formally agreed to the arrangement).
3  
 
The complaints allege that the Board created a subcommittee tasked with revising the 
draft short-term rental bylaw in order to present a new proposed bylaw to the Board for its 
consideration. The complaints further allege that this subcommittee did not post notice of its 
meetings or hold its meetings open to the public. The Board does not specifically deny that Chair 
Bannon, Vice Chair Davis, and Mr. Rembold met to review and revise the draft short-term rental 
bylaw, nor does the Board assert that any such meetings were properly posted and open to the 
public. Instead, the Board asserts that the group was not a subcommittee because during the 
Board’s March 7 meeting “[t]here was no vote of the Board[;] [t]here was no statement regarding 
creation of a subcommittee[;] and there was no delegation or grant of any authority to the chair 
and Selectwoman Davis.” Furthermore, the Board appears to assert that the group was not 
“created to advise or make recommendations to” the Board, stating that the draft bylaw presented 
to the Board on May 23 “was for the purpose of, and subject to, the Board’s discussion and 
approval; it was not a recommendation.” Finally, the Board compares the facts of the case at 
hand to the facts presented in OML 2017-111 in which we found a subcommittee had not been 
created where a single volunteer was sought to work on a matter and another board member 
thereafter, on their own initiative, volunteered to assist.  
 
We disagree with the Board’s characterization of the events that took place during its 
March 7
 meeting. Although the Board did not take a formal vote and did not use the word 
“subcommittee,” the Board discussed at length having two members work with Mr. Rembold to 
revise the proposed short-term rental bylaw and bring a new version of the bylaw to the Board 
for further consideration. After discussion of which and how many Board members should work 
with Mr. Rembold on this effort, the Board agreed that Chair Bannon and Vice Chair Davis 
would be the two members to do so. Although it may be the case that the Board did not literally 
intend to create a subcommittee, based on the facts presented in this case, we find that the 
Board’s actions during its March 7 meeting clearly created a subcommittee and that the 
subcommittee failed to post notice of its meetings or to hold its meetings open to the public. See 
OML 2019-93; OML 2018-23; OML 2021-78. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board created a subcommittee to revise a 
proposed short-term rental bylaw and that this subcommittee failed to comply with the Open 
Meeting Law. We order the Board’s and Subcommittee’s immediate and future compliance with 
the Open Meeting Law and caution that future similar violations may be considered evidence of 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
intent to violate the Law. With the understanding that any meetings of the Subcommittee
occurred sometime ago, we order the Subcommittee to create minutes for any meetings it held, to
the best of its ability, using any means available, including notes, records, and the recollections
of those in attendance at such meetings. Although we order the Subcommittee to create minutes
to the best of its ability, we acknowledge the potential infeasibility of accurately capturing the
substance of discussions that occurred approximately one year ago during meetings that the
Subcommittee mistakenly believed were not subject to the Open Meeting Law; we remind the
Subcommittee that minutes must accurately capture what was actually discussed during a
meeting. Within 30 days of receipt of this letter, the Subcommittee shall certify to our office that
it has complied with this order by creating minutes for any meetings it held. If the Subcommittee
is unable to create accurate minutes for its meetings, it must, within 30 days of receipt of this
letter, explain to this office in writing what efforts it made to create meeting minutes.
Furthermore, if the Subcommittee communicated via email regarding the short-term rental
bylaw, we order the Subcommittee to publicly release all such emails, either by reading them
aloud at an open meeting, or by attaching the emails to the minutes of an open meeting.
Finally, we decline to order the remedy requested in the complaints-nullifying the
Board's May 23 vote to include the short-term rental bylaw on the Annual Town Meeting
warrant and thereby nullifying the action taken at the Annual Town Meeting. There is no
suggestion that the Board's May 23 meeting did not comply with the Open Meeting Law.
Additionally, by the time the complaints were filed the Annual Town Meeting had already
occurred. See OML 2013-195; OML 2013-92.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board, the
Subcommittee, or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you
have any questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Elag
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC.
Stephen Bannon, Chair, Great Barrington Selectboard (via email:
sbannon@Townofgb.org)
Leigh S. Davis, Vice Chair, Great Barrington Selectboard (via e-mail:
HDazis@ownofgb.org)
Mark Pruhenski, Great Barrington Town Manager (via e-mail:
MPruhenski@townofgb.org)
Daniel Seitz (via e-mail:
Antonio Segalla (via e-mail:
4
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 