===PAGE 1===
THE  COMMONWEALTH  OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
March 28, 2013 
OML 2013 — 38 
Lauren C. Galvin, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
Crown Colony Plaza 
300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410 
P.O. Box 9126 
Quincy, MA 02269-9126 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Galvin: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Michael Menton on December 9, 2011, 
alleging that the Hingham Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about November 
16, 2011, and the Board responded to the original complaint by letter dated November 30, 2011. 
In his complaint, Mr. Menton alleges that a quorum of the Board met and deliberated during an 
October 26, 2011 meeting of the Hingham Municipal Light Board (the "HMLB"), although no 
Board meeting was posted or convened. The complaint also alleges that the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law by engaging in deliberation outside of a posted meeting prior to the October 
26, 2011 meeting of the HMLB. 
In resolving this complaint, we reviewed the November 16, 2011 complaint filed with the 
Board; the Board's November 20, 2011 response; and the December 9, 2011 complaint filed with 
this office. We reviewed the open session meeting minutes for all forty Board meetings between 
January 4, 2011 and October 24, 2011. We also reviewed two sets of draft minutes for the 
October 26, 2011 HMLB meeting. Finally, we communicated with Selectman Bruce Rabuffo on 
July 18, 2012 through written correspondence arranged by counsel. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We find that the October 26, 
2011 meeting of the HMLB included deliberation by a quorum of the Board on a matter within 
its jurisdiction. Accordingly, the Board should have posted notice for this meeting. However, 
we do not find that a quorum of the Board engaged in deliberation outside of a posted meeting 
prior to the October 26, 2011 meeting of the HMLB. 
0 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. Between 
January 4, 2011 and October 26, 2011, the Board consisted of three members: Chairman John 
Riley, Selectman Bruce Rabuffo, and Selectwoman Laura Bums. During open session Board 
meetings on March 15, 2011; May 3, 2011; and July 12, 2011, Board members expressed a 
preference for the use of underground utility services as compared to aerial utility services. The 
May 3, 2011 meeting minutes state, "Chairman Riley reviewed the history of the Verizon cable 
service license and the movement toward burying utilities underground whenever possible," and 
the July 12, 2011 meeting minutes state, "Mr. Rabuffo stated that his inclination is for taking 
down, and not adding, poles. Chairman Riley concurred." 
At the October 24, 2011 Board meeting, the Board voted unanimously "to attend the 
public meeting of the [HMLB] on Wednesday[,] October 26th as individual members to hear the 
discussion." All three members of the Board sat in the audience during the October 26, 2011 
HMLB meeting, which included an in-depth discussion of underground services. According to 
, draft meeting minutes provided by the HMLB, during the meeting Selectman Rabuffo stated, 
"There is now a policy question that affects both the town and the HMLPM which is why we 
three selectmen . . . are here tonight." When a member of the HMLB asked whether the Board 
posted notice of a public meeting that evening, Selectman Rabuffo responded that the Board 
"had been advised by their legal counsel that they could attend the meeting without posting a 
Board of Selectmen meeting notice if they did not deliberate at the meeting . . ." 
According to the draft minutes, when Board members spoke, they addressed the HMLB 
and all meeting attendees, including the other Board members. They did not engage directly in 
conversation with one another. At one point, they spoke in unison when answering "No" to a 
question posed by the HMLB. At certain times during the meeting, the Board members 
responded to comments made by other Board members; often, however, their participation was 
staggered. During the discussion of underground services, Selectman Rabuffo stated that the 
"Selectmen's objective is to get rid of poles." When the Town Wire Inspector stated that he 
would not act on pending permit applications until it was clear to him that the Department of 
Public Works would approve underground service, Selectman Rabuffo responded that "the Town 
will allow the permits for underground service . . ." According to the draft minutes, Selectman 
Rabuffo stated, "We will do that. Bill[,] make it happen." Immediately following, Selectwoman 
Bums stated, "Paul is going to work with them right away and the DPW to make sure that gets 
taken care of" 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of any meeting at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A "meeting" is defined as "a deliberation by 
a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
However, "'meeting' shall not include . . . attendance by a quorum of a public body at a meeting 
of another public body that has complied with the notice requirements of the open meeting law, 
so long as the visiting members communicate only by open participation in the meeting on those 
matters under discussion by the host body and do not deliberate . . ." Id. For purposes of the 
Open Meeting Law, "deliberation" is defined, in part, as "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
2 
===PAGE 3===
any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. A "quorum" is defined as "a simple majority of 
the members of the public body." Id. 
In its response to the complaint, the Board argues that it did not participate in a joint 
meeting with the HMLB, stating, "The Board of Selectmen did not discuss any of the matters 
before the [HMLB] among themselves. [They] sat in the audience and participated as members 
of the audience. The members of the Board of Selectmen responded to questions asked of them 
publicly to the entire group at the meeting. They did not vote on anything." The Board contends 
that the members "communicate[d] by open participation" on matters outside of the Board's 
jurisdiction, and therefore their participation at the October 26, 2011 meeting was specifically 
exempt from the statutory definition of meeting, found at G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Had the Board 
members participated merely as individual audience members, this exception would have 
applied. However, there was communication between a quorum of the Board that went beyond 
the "open participation" contemplated by the exception, and therefore constituted a meeting of 
the Board, which should have been posted. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20; OML 2011-16. 1  
Although the Board members did not address each other directly, they responded to each 
other's comments when addressing the HMLB. They did not merely take part in "open 
participation," rather members of the Board discussed and acted upon underground services 
policies in Hingham. They gave direct orders to Town employees and made decisions regarding 
implementation. These policy issues constitute public business within the Board's jurisdiction, 
as evidenced by their discussion of the issue during multiple Board meetings prior to the October 
26, 2011 meeting. We therefore find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
post notice for and take minutes of its meeting during the October 26, 2011 HMLB meeting. 
The complaint also alleges that the Board deliberated regarding Town underground 
services policy outside of a posted meeting prior to the October 26, 2011 meeting of the HMLB. 
In support of this allegation, Mr. Menton asserts that the Board must have prepared its position 
on underground utilities outside of an open session because he "cannot find any reference in 
other meeting minutes." However, the minutes from the Board meetings on March 15, 2011, 
May 3, 2011, and July 12, 2011 indicate that discussions regarding underground services policy 
in the Town of Hingham took place in open session. Additionally, Selectman Rabuffo explained 
to our office that the Board "ha[s] been discussing putting the wires of utility services 
underground during open public meetings for at least the last five years," and that the Board "has 
not had any conversations regarding underground services outside of open public meetings." We 
credit Selectman Rabuffo's response and find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by improperly deliberating prior to its October 26, 2011 meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to post notice for and convene a meeting during the October 26, 2011 HMLB meeting. 
We do not find that this was an intentional violation, and we acknowledge that the Board's 
deliberation was held during a posted meeting of another public body, which was open and 
accessible to the public. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
1  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
3 
===PAGE 4===
Law. We additionally order the Board to create and approve accurate minutes from the October 
26, 2011 meeting. If minutes of the meeting were already taken by the HMLB, the Board may 
review and adopt a copy of those minutes, as it was functionally a joint meeting of the two 
bodies. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this 
letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Michael Menton 
Hingham Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 