===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 24, 2015 
OML 2015-177 
W. Michael Cozort 
Superintendent 
Nantucket Public Schools 
10 Surfside Road 
Nantucket, MA 02554 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Cozort: 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty on October 19,1 alleging that the 
Nantucket School Committee (the Committee) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about September 15, 
and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, to the complaint by letter dated September 
29.2 In his complaint, Mr. Beaty alleges that the notice for the Committee's September 15 
meeting lacked sufficient detail about the nature of an executive session topic discussed at 
that meeting and failed to list "open session" as a separate topic on the notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to list "open session" as a topic on its meeting notice and by failing to provide 
sufficient detail about its executive session, both in the chair's verbal announcement prior to 
the executive session and in the meeting notice. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint, the Committee's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with 
our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notice of and executive session 
minutes from the Committee's September 15 meeting.3 Finally, we spoke with 
Superintendent W. Michael Cozort on October 28. 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
3 The Committee did not create a separate set of open session minutes. We remind the Committee that the Open 
Meeting Law requires that minutes be created for both open and executive session minutes, even when the open 
session discussion concerns only the procedural steps for entering executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22. 
While the minutes may be a combined document, they should accurately distinguish between open and executive 
session so that they may be segregated if a request is made and the executive session minutes are withheld from 
disclosure. See OML 2013-155. 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On September 15, the Committee held a meeting with 
the sole purpose of convening in executive session to commence negotiations for the renewal 
of Superintendent Cozort's contract. The meeting notice, posted on September 4, identified 
the meeting as an executive session and listed the sole topic as "Negotiations of Non-Union 
Personnel." During the meeting, the Committee first convened in open session to vote by roll 
call to convene in executive session "to conduct contract negotiations with the 
Superintendent." During the executive session, the Committee held a preliminary discussion 
with Superintendent Cozort about the renewal of his contract. The Committee released the 
minutes from this executive session on September 29. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Executive session topics must be described, both in the 
meeting notice and in the announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 
BOA, §§ 20(b), 21(b)(3); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); see also District Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. 
Comm. Of Wavland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening 
in executive session is necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only 
notification given to the public that the school committee would conduct business in private, 
and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper."). 
The complainant alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to include "open session" as a separate topic on the September 15 meeting notice. We agree 
with the complainant on this point, as the executive session was the only topic on the agenda. 
Because the Open Meeting Law requires that a public body convene in open session before 
entering executive session, any public body entering executive session should reasonably 
anticipate that it will convene in open session to follow the procedural steps for convening an 
executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(l)-(4). When the only business to be discussed 
during an open session is the procedural requirements for entering executive session, listing 
"open session" on the meeting notice is the only means by which members of the public are 
informed that a public body will, in fact, hold an open meeting that they are permitted to 
attend. See OML 2013-9; OML 2012-68.4 Because this information was omitted, we find 
that the Committee's meeting notice was not sufficient to comply with the Open Meeting 
Law. In response to this complaint, the Committee pledged to include this information in 
future notices. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The complainant further alleges that the Committee's executive session topic, 
described on the notice as "Negotiations of Non-Union Personnel," lacked sufficient detail. 
Although the discussion was appropriate for executive session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) 
"to conduct contract negotiations with nonunion personnel" (Purpose 2), the Committee 
should have provided the public with more detail about the anticipated topic. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(b), 21(b)(3); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). First, the Committee should have stated the statutory 
purpose that formed the basis for the executive session. See G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(b)(3); OML 
2015-16; OML 2014-97. Second, the Committee should have identified the specific non-
union personnel with whom it was negotiating, namely the School Superintendent, unless 
disclosure would have defeated the puipose for the executive session. See OML 2015-137. 
Because the Committee identified the School Superintendent as the subject of the negotiation 
during the meeting, including this detail in the notice would not have defeated the purpose for 
confidentiality. See OML 2015-136. For these two reasons, we find that the executive 
session topic lacked sufficient detail, both in the chair's verbal announcement prior to the 
executive session and in the meeting notice. G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 20(b), 21(b)(3); 940 CMR 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to list "open session" as a topic on its meeting notice and by failing to provide 
sufficient detail about its executive session, in the chair's verbal announcement prior to the 
executive session and in the meeting notice. Because the executive session minutes have 
already been released to the public, we order only immediate and future compliance with the 
law's requirements, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence 
of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Ronald Beaty 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
29.03(l)(b). 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 