===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
 
August 11, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 104 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Andrew Romano 
Chair, Select Board  
Town of Fairhaven 
aromano@fairhaven-ma.gov 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Romano: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins (the “Complainant”) on October 
29, 2025, alleging that the Fairhaven Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on October 15
1 
and former chair Charles K. Murphy2 responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by 
letter dated October 28. The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to respond to a request for executive session minutes within the 10 days required by the 
Law. 
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action, in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the way 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response 
to the complaint, the request for further review and the minutes of the Board’s October 14 
meeting.3 
 
1 All dates are in 2025 unless otherwise noted. 
2 At the time the complaint was filed, Mr. Murphy was Chair of the Board. However, he is no longer a member of 
the Board. 
3 The meeting minutes can be found on the “2025 Select Board Agenda and Minutes” page of the Fairhaven Select 
Board’s website: https://fairhaven-ma.gov/document/select-board-2025/. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The Open Meeting 
Law further provides that “minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether approved or in 
draft form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 days.” G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(c). When a public body receives a request for executive session minutes, the body must also 
respond to the request within 10 days. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). If at the time of the request 
the public body has not recently performed a periodic review of the requested minutes, as 
provided by G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1), the body must perform the review and release the non-
exempt minutes, or any portion thereof, not later than the body’s next meeting or 30 days, 
whichever occurs first. Id. If this review is required, the public body must still respond to the 
requester within 10 days of receiving the request, informing the requester that the public body 
will conduct a review to determine whether the minutes may be withheld or must be released. 
See OML 2023-62; OML Declination 10-15-23 (Hubbardston Select Board).
4 
 
Here, on October 3, the Complainant sent an email to then-Board Chair Charles Murphy 
requesting a “copy of the minutes of all executive sessions held by the Select Board in calendar 
years 2024, and 2025.” Mr. Murphy responded on October 4 acknowledging the request, writing, 
“I have forwarded this.” On October 5, the Complainant emailed Mr. Murphy reminding him of 
the 10-day requirement. The Town Administrator responded that same day stating that the Board 
was “aware of the timeline” and would “respond accordingly.”  
 
During a meeting held on October 14, the Board reviewed numerous minutes of 
executive sessions held in 2024 and 2025 and voted to release certain of those minutes. On 
October 15, 12 calendar days after the Complainant’s initial request, the Board provided copies 
of executive session minutes. We acknowledge that the Board initially replied to the 
Complainant’s request within 10 days acknowledging receipt. However, the Board did not 
inform the Complainant that it would conduct a review of the executive session minutes. See 
OML 2017-159. The Board also did not provide minutes that it had previously reviewed, prior to 
receiving the request, and determined could be released. The Open Meeting Law requires that 
upon request by any person to inspect or copy the minutes of an executive session or any portion 
thereof, the body must respond to the request within 10 days following receipt and release any 
such minutes where publication would not defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). Here, both Mr. Murphy’s and the Town Administrator’s responses 
were ambiguous, simply suggesting that the request had been “forwarded” and that the Board 
would “respond.” Therefore, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by not 
properly responding to a request for meeting minutes. However, we commend the Board for 
promptly reviewing and approving minutes for release at its next meeting.  
 
In instances where all appropriate corrective action has already been taken, such as here 
where the Board provided copies of responsive meeting minutes on the day the instant complaint 
was filed, we urge complainants not to consume resources by requesting further review where 
the transparency purpose of any such complaint or review has already been addressed. See OML 
2026-12; OML 2024-224; OML 2023-113; OML 2017-191; OML 2012-46. Indeed, the Open 
Meeting Law complaint process is designed to allow public bodies to take corrective action and 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations and declination letters may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
address concerns raised in a complaint without this office’s involvement. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(b) (“At least 30 days prior to the filing of a complaint with the attorney general, the 
complainant shall file a written complaint with the public body, setting forth the circumstances 
which constitute the alleged violation and giving the body an opportunity to remedy the alleged 
violation.”). Pursuing such complaints takes up scarce state and local resources without 
advancing the Open Meeting Law’s goal of improved governmental transparency. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to properly respond to a request for executive session minutes within the 10 days required 
by the Law. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Law and caution 
that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by Andrew Guay, Legal Intern 
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins  
 Fairhaven Select Board (via email: selectboard@fairhaven-ma.gov) 
Fairhaven Town Administrator (via email: khickey@fairhaven-ma.gov) 
Fairhaven Town Clerk (via email: clerk@fairhaven-ma.gov) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
