===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 T EL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 9, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 82  
 
 
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street, 12
th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By e-mail only: gcorbo@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on June 3, 2020, alleging that the 
Somerset Board of Water & Sewer Commissioners (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 4, and 
you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated May 22.  The complaint alleges that the 
Board “did not vote by roll call vote” at its April 29 meeting during which all three Board 
members participated remotely.2 
  
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed 
with our office requesting further review, and the notice and open session minutes of the Board’s 
April 29 meeting, as well as a video recording of that meeting.3   
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 
2 The complaint also alleges that the Board created a preliminary screening committee that failed to post notice of 
meetings and create minutes.  Moreover, the complaint alleges that this screening committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by forwarding only one final candidate for the Control Collections System Foreman position, and that 
the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by accepting that one candidate and not conducting public interviews of 
candidates.  The Board stated that the Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Department had the sole authority to 
conduct the hiring process and to make a recommendation to the Board, and he merely consulted with other Town 
officials to assist him in carrying out this function.  Accordingly, because the Superintendent assembled individuals 
on his own, was not directed to do so by the Board, and the Board never voted to create a preliminary screening 
committee, there was no committee subject to the Open Meeting Law and the Board did not violate the law by 
accepting the one final candidate.  See OML 2018-62.  The complainant “concedes [the Board’s] argument on the 
screening committee.”  As such, we do not review this portion of the complaint.  
3 A video recording of the April 29 meeting is available at http://www.somersetaccesstv.org/satv/?page_id=531. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
On March 10, Governor Charles Baker declared a state of emergency in response to the 
public health emergency created by the outbreak of the 2019 novel Coronavirus (“COVID-19”).  
See Exec. Order No. 591 (Mar. 10, 2020).  On March 12, Governor Baker issued an executive 
order temporarily suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting Law during the state of 
emergency.  See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L.  c. 30A,  
§ 20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”).  The Executive Order temporarily suspends the 
requirements under the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law 
regulations that a quorum of a public body, including the chair, be physically present at the 
meeting location and allows all members of a public body to participate in a meeting remotely.  
All other provisions of the law and regulations regarding remote participation remain in effect, 
including the requirement that “[a]ll votes taken during any meeting in which a member 
participates remotely must be by roll call vote.”  940 CMR 29.10(7)(c).   
 
On April 29, the Board held a meeting in which all three Board members participated 
remotely.  However, votes taken during this meeting were not conducted by roll call vote.  The 
Board asserts that all votes were unanimous and therefore it was readily apparent how each 
member voted.  Even if a vote is unanimous, the Attorney General’s Regulations require that, 
“all votes taken during any meeting in which a member participates remotely must be by roll call 
vote.”  940 CMR 29.10(7)(c); see OML 2015-145.  While we recognize that members of the 
public were still able to discern how each Board member voted because the votes were 
unanimous, the law requires that the Board conduct its votes by roll call when a member 
participates remotely, even where the result of a vote is unanimous.  See 2016-132; OML 2015-
131.  Accordingly, because the Board failed to conduct roll call votes during the April 29 
meeting, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged.  We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law’s 
requirements, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent 
to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins – By e-mail only:  
Somerset Board of Water & Sewer Commissioners – By e-mail only: 
watersewerchair@town.somerset.ma.us 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
