===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
October 28, 2013 
OML 2013 - 159 
Michael P. McCarron, Esq. 
Town Counsel 
Town of West Newbury 
381 Main Street 
West Newbury, MA 01985 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney McCarron: 
This office received a complaint filed by Mr. Thomas Atwood (the complainant), dated 
September 16, 2013, alleging the West Newbury Conservation Commission (the Commission) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges 1.) 
that the Commission improperly deliberated without notice prior to and during a visit to his 
property, and 2.) that the Commission improperly deliberated prior to mailing a letter informing 
him that the Commission would be discussing work performed on his property. The complaint 
was filed with the Commission on July 22, 2013. The Commission responded by letter dated 
August 6, 2013. 
We reviewed the July 22, 2013 complaint filed with the Commission; a request to this 
office for further review, dated September 16, 2013; and the Commission's response, dated 
August 6, 2013. In addition, we spoke via telephone in September and October 2013 with the 
complainant and with Town Counsel for the Town of West Newbury, Michael McCarron.1 
Subsequently, we were provided with and reviewed the minutes of the Commission's June 17, 
2013 meeting as well as a Google Maps printout of Hilltop Circle and Crescent Drive, West 
Newbury.2 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
1 For the purpose of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person. 
2 The minutes and printout were provided by Town Counsel. 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
Based on our review of the materials listed above, we find the following facts: The 
Commission is a five member board, thus three members constitute a quorum. At its June 17, 
2013 meeting, the Commission discussed work that was being done at a property on Crescent 
Drive, West Newbury, as well as a planned site visit to that location scheduled for June 23, 2013. 
Crescent Drive is a U-shaped street that connects at both its ends to Hilltop Circle. One cannot 
reach Crescent Drive without passing the complainant's property on Hilltop Circle. 
On June 23, 2013, as the Conservation Agent, Jay Smith, traveled to the site visit on 
Crescent Drive, he noticed the complainant had commenced work on his own property, which 
potentially fell under the jurisdiction of the Conservation Commission. The Conservation Agent 
stopped and proceeded to photograph the complainant's property. Believing an apparent 
stranger had trespassed and was photographing his property, the complainant confronted the 
Conservation Agent. During the ensuing conversation, two members of the Commission, also on 
their way to the site visit, stopped and participated in the discussion. Eventually, the encounter 
ended. 
Subsequently, the complainant received a letter signed as the Commission and dated June 
26, 2013. Under the subject heading "Violation," the letter informed the complainant that the 
Commission would discuss the work on his property, as well as issues raised by the complainant 
during the June 23, 2013 encounter and in a letter sent by him to the Commission, dated June 24, 
2013. It was the practice of the Conservation Agent, prior to and at the time this letter was sent, 
to send scheduling letters on behalf of the Commission without any preceding discussion by a 
quorum of that body. Accordingly, the June 26, 2013 letter was sent by the Conservation Agent 
on behalf of the Commission. This complaint followed. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Open Meeting Law defines a "meeting" as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined, in relevant part, as "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction" but it does not include "the distribution of. . . 
scheduling information . ..." Id. A quorum is generally a simple majority of the body. See id. 
The complaint alleges that the two members of the Commission who appeared at the 
complainant's property were not properly authorized to represent the Commission because the 
Town did not produce agendas and minutes showing a vote by the Commission empowering the 
individuals to act as such representatives. The complaint further alleges that the Commission 
improperly deliberated prior to sending the letter stating the Commission's intention to discuss 
the complainant's property at a meeting. 
===PAGE 3===
The Commission's failure to produce an agenda and minutes of a meeting allowing the 
two members present on June 23, 2013 to represent the Commission does not constitute a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. While the complainant may wish to cast doubt on the 
happenstance of the June 23, 2013 encounter, he offers, and we can find, no evidence 
demonstrating any orchestration of the event by the Commission. Instead, the minutes of the 
Commission's June 17, 2013 meeting indicate the date and location of the site visit to Crescent 
Drive. A review of the street layout of Crescent Drive and Hilltop Circle reveals that 
participants in the site visit to Crescent Drive were required to pass the complainant's property. 
In the absence of any evidence demonstrating forethought or planning on the part of the 
Commission, we find there was no improper deliberation prior to June 23, 2013 encounter and 
consequently no minutes or agendas reflecting such deliberation. 
Additionally, only two members of the Commission were present at the complainant's 
property on June 23, 2013. Because a quorum of the Commission is three members and only 
two members were present, no deliberation occurred on June 23, 2013, and therefore no meeting 
requiring a posted agenda and minutes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Accordingly, we find no 
violation of the Open Meeting Law prior to or during the encounter on June 23, 2013. 
Finally, we find that the letter dated June 26, 2013 was not the product of improper 
deliberation. The complainant argues that the subject heading "Violation" and the fact that the 
letter was sent on behalf of the Commission demonstrate that the Commission met and 
deliberated to determine that the work on the work at his property was a violation. The practice 
of the Conservation Agent is to send scheduling letters on behalf of the Commission as a body 
and, in the absence of other evidence, we find that practice was followed in this instance. 
Furthermore, even if the Commission, as a body instead of through the Conservation Agent, had 
sent the June 26, 2013 letter, such action would also not be a violation because the letter 
constituted the "distribution ... of scheduling information . . .which is explicitly excluded 
from the definition of deliberation. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. We therefore find no violation in 
connection with the June 26, 2013 letter. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. If you have any questions regarding this determination, please feel free to call 
our office at (617) 963-2540. 
===PAGE 4===
Sincerely, 
Mark M. Higgms 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
-A 
cc: West Newbury Conservation Commission 
Thomas Atwood 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 