===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 13, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 39 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
John E. Duval 
Chair, Adams Board of Selectmen 
 
jduval@town.adams.ma.us 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Duval: 
 
This office received a complaint from Catherine Foster on November 17, 2025, alleging 
that the Adams Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 16, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated September 25.
1  The complaint alleges that the 
Board (1) posted notice of a meeting with insufficient specificity; (2) failed to provide sufficient 
specificity prior to entering executive session; and (3) provided confidential information from an 
executive session to the press prior to approving minutes. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
met in executive session without describing the topic to be discussed with sufficient specificity in 
the notice or in its statement prior to entering executive session.  We decline to review the other 
allegation of the complaint for the reasons discussed below.  In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, and the request for further 
review of the complaint.  We also reviewed the notice of a meeting that the Board held on 
September 8, and minutes of the September 8 open session.  Finally, we reviewed a media 
account of the Board’s actions on September 8, provided by the complainant.2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. The Board posted notice for a meeting to take place on 
September 8 at 4:00 p.m.  The notice included one substantive topic for discussion: 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 “Adams Police Chief K. Scott Kelley placed on paid leave,” Berkshire Eagle, September 9, 2025. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
2.  EXECUTIVE SESSION: Executive Session – Pursuant to MGL Chapter 30A, 
Section 21(a)(1): To discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental 
health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline 
or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff 
member or individual. 
 
 The Board will only return to open session to adjourn. 
 
The meeting went forward as scheduled.  After the meeting was called to order, Vice 
Chair Ann Bartlett moved to enter executive session, announcing the purpose as stated on the 
meeting notice.  The Board met in executive session for approximately 50 minutes.  When the 
Board returned to open session, it did not immediately adjourn.  Instead, Chair Duval
3 
announced that due to an emergency situation, he had appointed Sargeant Donna Malloy to 
Acting Police Chief through September 8, pending Board ratification.  In open session, the Board 
then voted to retain Donna Malloy in the position of Acting Police Chief and to direct the Town 
Administrator to recommend to the Board a candidate for long term Acting Police Chief.  The 
next day, Chair Duval issued a statement that the Board had voted to remove Police Chief K. 
Scott Kelley and appointed Donna Malloy as Acting Police Chief until further notice. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include sufficient detail 
in the meeting notice or in the statement prior to entering executive session. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except in an emergency, a public body must post notice 
of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to the meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must, among other things, contain a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.  Id. 
 
A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any one or more of ten 
purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law.  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a).  One such purpose allows 
a public body to convene in executive session to “discuss the reputation, character, physical 
condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss 
the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, 
employee, staff member or individual.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”).   
 
Prior to convening in executive session, “the chair shall state the purpose for the 
executive session stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for 
which the executive session was called.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for 
the Northern District v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary… because that is the only 
notification given the public that [a public body] would conduct business in private, and the only 
way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper.”); see OML 2024-
 
3 For the sake of clarity, you are referred to in the third person. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
1424; OML 2011-30.  The same level of detail regarding the executive session topic must also be 
included on the meeting notice.  See OML 2023-207; OML 2019-85; OML 2017-43.   
 
When discussing an individual in executive session pursuant to Purpose 1, a public body 
may omit identifying information about that individual from the meeting notice where the body 
is concerned about protecting the privacy of that individual.  See OML 2023-205; OML 2017-
74; OML 2016-15; OML 2013-141.  We have said that where a public body knows in advance 
that the subject of a Purpose 1 discussion wished to hold the discussion in open session, there 
was no privacy concern justifying omission of the subject’s identity on the notice.  See OML 
2023-205.   
   
Here, the Board’s notice, and its statement prior to entering executive session on 
September 8, simply included the statutory language of Purpose 1, without any detail specific to 
that meeting’s executive session.  Although a public body may omit identifying information 
about the Purpose 1 subject to protect the privacy of the individual, the Board does not state in its 
response that it had any privacy concerns.  Rather, the Board simply argues that when a public 
body enters executive session pursuant to Purpose 1, “it is not required to identify the individual 
being discussed in either the meeting notice topic or the motion.”  Our prior determination, OML 
2023-27, upon which the Board relies, is distinguishable.  In that case, the public body explicitly 
advised our office that it was concerned about protecting the privacy of the individual to be 
discussed.  See OML 2023-27.  Here, the Board makes no particularized argument that it was 
concerned about Police Chief K. Scott Kelley’s privacy.  Indeed, upon exiting executive session, 
Chair Duval announced in open session that Police Chief Kelley had been removed from his 
position.  Chair Duval also issued a statement to the media the next day, confirming Chief 
Kelley’s removal and Donna Malloy’s appointment.  The Board’s actions are not consistent with 
an interest in keeping Chief Kelley’s identity confidential.  For these reasons, we find that notice 
of the September 8 meeting and the announcement prior to entering executive session were 
insufficiently specific.
5 
 
II. We decline to review the allegation that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law when it provided executive session information to the press prior to 
approving executive session minutes. 
 
The Open Meeting Law allows public bodies to discuss certain topics behind closed 
doors.  G.L. c. 30A, § 21.  However, the Open Meeting Law does not require that public body 
members keep topics discussed in executive session confidential prior to the approval and release 
of the executive session minutes nor does the law impose penalties for members’ failure to do so. 
See OML 2026-18; OML 2023-26; OML 2014-91.  Therefore, the disclosure of information 
discussed in executive session sooner than required does not constitute a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law.  Id.  See also OML 2011-29 (“The Open Meeting Law is silent about the 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 The notice also stated that the Board would return to open session only to adjourn but, as noted above, the Board 
made an announcement and took a vote about Chief Kelley’s removal and the appointment of his temporary 
replacement.  Because the complaint does not allege lack of sufficiency of notice as to the open session, we do not 
investigate it.  However, we caution the Board that if it anticipates further discussion upon return to open session, 
that topic should be included on the notice.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
responsibilities of individual public body members to maintain the confidentiality of executive 
session minutes.”).  Even if taken as true, the complainant’s allegation regarding the public 
release of executive session information does not implicate any provision of the Open Meeting 
Law, and we decline to review it.  We express no opinion as to whether other laws may require 
public body members to maintain the confidentiality of such sessions. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it met in executive session without describing the topic with sufficient specificity in the 
notice or in its statement prior to entering executive session.  We order the Board’s immediate 
and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law’s requirements and caution that future similar 
violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Nicholas Caccamo, Adams Town Administrator (via email: 
ncaccamo@town.adams.ma.us) 
Adams Town Clerk (via email: hmeczywor@town.adams.ma.us) 
Catherine Foster (via email:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The  
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
