===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 14, 2015 
OML 2015-119 
Eugene J. Sullivan III, Esq. 
Holtz & Reed, LLP 
225 Friend St. 
Boston, MA 02114 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Sullivan; 
This office received a complaint from Cynthia Fordham, dated June 18, alleging that the 
Saugus Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1 Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board failed to provide Sean Fitzgerald with 
notice that the Board would discuss his contract during its March 24 meeting. The complaint 
was originally filed with the Board on April 22.2 The Board responded by letter dated Junel6.3 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Board, the Board's 
response, and the complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed the notice for, and 
open session minutes of, the Board's March 24 meeting. We also reviewed, in camera, the 
executive session minutes of the Board's March 24 meeting. Finally, we spoke with Ms. 
Fordham by telephone on June 23. 
FACTS 
The Board met on March 24, and following the regular business portion of its meeting, 
voted to enter into executive session to discuss, "pending litigation strategy." Because the Board 
1 All dates refer to the year 2015. 
2 Although the complaint is dated March 22, we understand from the complainant that this was an error, and that the 
complaint was actually filed with the Saugus Town Clerk and the Board on April 22. She was able to provide our 
office with a copy of the complaint with a time stamp from the Saugus Town Clerk's Office confirming receipt on 
April 23. 
3 We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days after receiving a complaint, 
unless an extension has been granted by the Attorney General, the public body shall review the complaint's 
allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General and the complainant a copy of the 
complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
has not publicly released the minutes of its March 24 executive session, we do not recount their 
content in detail here. However, we note that the Board met with counsel regarding a pending 
lawsuit between the Town and Scott Crabtree. The Board did not discuss any matters relating to 
Sean Fitzgerald, who was a candidate for Town Manager at that time.4 After its executive 
session, the Board returned to open session. Town Counsel addressed the Board and explained 
that he received an offer of settlement in the Scott Crabtree litigation.5 The Board then discussed 
with Town Counsel and Labor Counsel both the litigation with Mr. Crabtree and the status of a 
contract with Mr. Fitzgerald. The Board voted to adopt the opinion of legal counsel that Mr. 
Fitzgerald's contract was void. The Board then voted on a settlement agreement with Mr. 
Crabtree. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a). One purpose for executive session is for public bodies to discuss, "strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). Another purpose allows a public body to enter into executive session to 
"discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional 
competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or 
charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 3 OA, § 
21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). The individual to be discussed in a Purpose 1 executive session must be 
notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session. 
Id. The individual must also be afforded the right to be present during deliberations that involve 
that individual, the right to speak on his or her own behalf, the right to have counsel present to 
advise but not participate, and the right to have an independent record of that meeting made at 
the individual's own expense. Id. 
Ms. Fordham's complaint alleges that the Board discussed Mr. Fitzgerald during its 
March 24 executive session without giving Mr. Fitzgerald notice and the opportunity to be 
present. Although the Board discussed, and took action on, Mr. Fitzgerald's contract in open 
session following its executive session, Ms. Fordham believes that the Board may have agreed in 
executive session to take such action. From our review of the executive session minutes, it is 
clear that the Board discussed only the pending litigation with Mr. Crabtree, and did not discuss 
Mr. Fitzgerald or the status of his contract. The Board also states in its response to the complaint 
that its executive session discussion was limited only to the litigation with Mr. Crabtree. 
Because the Board discussed Mr. Fitzgerald's contract in open session, and not as part of a 
Purpose 1 executive session, the Board was not required to provide him with individual notice of 
its discussion.6 See OML 2014-142; OML 2013-41; OML 2013-24; OML 2011-41.7 
4 The complaint filed with our office raises issues regarding the legal status of the Town's contract with Mr, 
Fitzgerald. The Division of Open Government's review concerns only compliance with the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Therefore, we offer no opinion as to Mr. Fitzgerald's contract or employment status at the 
time of these events. 
5 For puiposes of clarity, we will refer you to in the third person. 
6 Further, we note that even if the Board had discussed Mr. Fitzgerald's contract in executive session, it could have 
done so under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2), which also would not have required notice to Mi-. Fitzgerald, though public 
noticed would be requried. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Although not raised by the complaint, we note that the Board failed to publicly identify 
the pending litigation that was the subject of its discussion prior to entering into executive 
session during its March 24 meeting. Before entering into executive session, the chair must state 
the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). 
Here, the Board revealed the specific pending litigation immediately upon returning to open 
session, thus it appears that identifying the pending litigation that was the subject of the 
discussion would not have compromised the executive session purpose. We take this 
opportunity to remind the Board that it must publicly identify the subjects of its executive 
session discussion if doing so would not compromise the puipose of its executive session. Id, 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve any 
other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Board. Please feel free to 
contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Saugus Board of Selectmen 
Cynthia Fordham 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass, gov/ago/openmeeting. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 