===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
       May 30, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 67 
 
 
Brian W. Riley, Esq.  
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By email only: briley@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
 
This office received a complaint from Michael Ferris on January 3, 2025, alleging that 
the Westminster Capital Planning Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on 
December 13, 2024, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, by letter 
dated December 17, 2024.1  The complaint alleges that the Committee deliberated outside of a 
properly posted meeting when a quorum of members attended a Planning Board (the “Board”) 
meeting held on December 10.  
   
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
in the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review.  In addition, we reviewed the notice, minutes and video recording of the Board meeting 
held on December 10.
2   
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
beration and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the Board meeting that was held on December 10 is available at:   
http://cablecast.awcm.org/CablecastPublicSite/show/5166?site=10.  
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The Open Meeting Law excludes from the definition of “meeting,” however, the 
“attendance by a quorum of a public body at a meeting of another public body that has complied 
with the notice requirements of the open meeting law, so long as the visiting members 
communicate only by open participation in the meetings on those matters under discussion by the 
host body and do not deliberate.”  Id.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  
 
Here, the Committee acknowledges that three members, a quorum, attended the Board 
meeting held on December 10.
3  However, the Committee contends that the three members 
simply sat in the audience and did not speak during the meeting.  A quorum of one public body 
may be in the same place at the same time, including attending the meeting of another public 
body, provided they do not deliberate.  See OML 2019-103; OML 2015- 38.
4  In considering 
whether members of a public body deliberated at another public body’s meeting, we look for 
indicia such as whether the public body members were seated with the general public and 
whether they participated by open participation to conclude that no improper deliberation 
occurred.  See OML 2016-117; OML 2013-38.  After watching a video recording of the Board’s 
December 10 meeting, we find that the Committee members sat with the general audience and 
did not speak during the meeting.  Therefore, we find that the Committee did not deliberate and 
thus did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
With r
espect to the concern raised in the complaint that the three Committee members 
were “huddled and deliberating together” after the conclusion of the December 10 meeting, the 
Committee acknowledges that the members spoke briefly to each other after the meeting but 
contend that the discussions did not pertain to Committee business.  Absent evidence to the 
contrary, we credit a public body’s account of the facts.
5  See OML 2023-121; OML 2017-93; 
OML 2016-141; see also LaPointe v. License Board of Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) (“There 
 
3 We note that the notice of the December 10 Board meeting listed the meeting as taking place on “Tuesday, 
December 12th, 2024.”  The Open Meeting Law requires that every notice include “the date, time and place of such 
meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b).  Here, the notice listed the day of the meeting correctly but did not correctly list the date.  Because the Open 
Meeting Law requires that a notice include the date of a meeting, rather than the day, the notice was insufficient.  
We caution the Board to be more attentive to preventing errors that may cause confusion as to meeting dates.  
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
5 We reviewed all the material provided to this office by the complainant, including copies of emails dated 
December 9.  We note that these emails were between Advisory Committee members, not Capital Planning 
Committee members.  While we understand that some individuals serve on multiple public bodies in the Town of 
Westminster, the emails do not appear to be between a quorum of Capital Planning Committee members  nor allude 
to further evidence of deliberation between a quorum of Capital Planning Committee members outside of a meeting.  
Because the complaint here was only filed with the Capital Planning Committee , we decline to review allegations 
against the Advisory Committee.  See G.L. c. 30A § 23(b) (individuals who allege a violation of the Open Meeting 
Law must first file a complaint with the public body alleged to have violated the Law).  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
is every presumption in favor of the honesty and sufficiency of the motives actuating public 
officers in actions ostensibly taken for the general welfare.”) 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Michael Ferris – By email only:   
Westminster Capital Planning Committee c/o Chair Steve Rocheleau – By email only: 
steven@roche-leautool.com  
Westminster Planning Board c/o Planning Director Ryan Doherty – By email only: 
rdoherty@westminster-ma.gov 
Westminster Town Clerk Ellen Sheehan – By email only: esheehan@westminster-
ma.gov  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
