===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
December 24, 2012 
2012 OML - 118 
Lauren Goldberg 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
Dear Attorney Goldberg: 
This office received an Open Meeting Law complaint from Bernard Brahm on January 
30, 2012, alleging that the Provincetown Historical District Commission (the "Commission") 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint specifically alleges that 
the Commission held an executive session meeting on August 31, 2011 to discuss strategy with 
respect to litigation and failed to follow the required procedures for entering into executive 
session, failed to establish that holding an open meeting would have a detrimental effect on the 
Commission's litigating position, and failed to make minutes of the meeting available to the 
public. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on November 1, 2011. 
Following extensions granted by our office, the Commission responded by letter, through 
counsel, on January 5, 2012. 
We find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law by meeting in 
executive session on August 31, 2011. We find that while the Commission met most of the 
procedural requirements for entering executive session, the chair did not sufficiently state the 
purpose for the executive session. We also find that the Commission's executive session 
minutes are incomplete. In reaching this determination, we reviewed, the November 1, 2012 
complaint filed with the Commission; the Commission's January 5, 2012 response; and the 
January 30, 2012 complaint. We reviewed the minutes of the Commission's August 31, 2011 
open and executive session meetings. We also reviewed an undated letter sent to our office, 
signed by the complainant and Mr. Scott Shamenek, received on December 14, 2011. Finally, 
we reviewed an undated letter sent to our office by the complainant, received on February 14, 
2012. 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
The complainant sought the Commission's approval to add a widow's walk to the roof of 
his house. The Commission denied his request, and the complainant appealed to Barnstable 
Superior Court. The Superior Court issued a decision on August 22, 2011, which in large part, 
found in the complainant's favor. Following this decision, the Commission posted a meeting 
notice on August 25, 2011 for an August 31, 2011 meeting, and listed the following topics: "1. 
Executive Session, MGL Ch. 39, §23B, Clause 3; 2. Other." 
The Commission met on August 31, 2011 in open session. The Commission then voted 
to enter executive session by roll call vote. The motion stated that "the Historic District 
Commission vote, pursuant to MGL C. 39, §23B, Clause 3 to go into executive session for the 
purpose of discussion [sic] strategy with respect to litigation; and to not convene in open 
session." In its January 5, 2012 letter, the Commission states that "although the minutes do not 
reflect that the Chair indicated that holding a meeting in open session would be detrimental to the 
position of the Commission, Town Counsel Rana Quirk was present at the meeting, and 
specifically recalls such a statement being made." According to the minutes, the Commission 
met in executive session for 52 minutes. 
On September 13, 2011, the Commission filed an appeal of the Superior Court's August 
22, 2011 decision in Brahm v. Historic District Commission. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law states, in relevant part, that "[e]xcept in an emergency, in 
addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every 
meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal 
holidays...Notice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the 
date, time, place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonable anticipates will 
be discussing at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a 
meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03. We generally consider a topic to include sufficient 
specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the 
anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2012-10. 1  Furthermore, for an 
executive session notice, the chair must "state the purpose for the executive session, stating all 
subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session 
was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); District Attorney for Northern Dist. v. School Committee  
of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (Mass. 2009) ("[a] precise statement of the reason for 
convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only 
notification given to the public that the school committee would conduct business in private, and 
the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper"). A 
public body may enter executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a). Among the ten purposes is Purpose 3, which states that a public body may enter executive 
session to "discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting 
may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the 
I  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.goviago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). 
The notice for the Commission's August 31, 2011 meeting lists a topic as "Executive 
Session, MGL Ch. 39, §23B, Clause 3." The statute listed in the notice refers to the prior version 
of the Open Meeting Law, which was updated on June 1, 2010 as part of the Ethics Reform Act 
of 2009. However, the section of the statute that the Commission cited is the same as the current 
executive session Purpose 3, found at G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). The complaint alleges that the 
chair failed to provide sufficient detail as to the purpose for the executive session prior to the 
Commission entering executive session on August 31, 2011.1  The Commission asserts that 
providing information about the specific litigation would have compromised the purpose for the 
executive session. The Commission states that "including the name of the case in a meeting 
notice shortly after a decision has been issued in the case may alert the plaintiff to the potential 
of an appeal, perhaps encouraging the plaintiff to consider appealing portions of a court decision 
that the plaintiff was dissatisfied with." Although we generally defer to a public body's decision 
about whether to withhold detail from a meeting notice because such detail may compromise the 
purpose for the executive session, we disagree in this instance that naming the specific litigation 
would have compromised the purpose for the executive session. The chair should have stated 
that the Commission was entering executive session for "Purpose 3, to discuss strategy with 
respect to litigation: Brahm v. Historic District Commission."  Providing the name of the case 
does not put the Commission at any strategic disadvantage. In this case, the Commission filed its 
appeal on September 13, 2011. Because the right of appeal extended until September 21, 2011, 
the complainant had an additional eight days to consider appealing portions of the court decision 
that the plaintiff was dissatisfied with. Simply stating that the Commission is going to meet to 
discuss strategy with respect to ongoing litigation does not generally harm its litigating position. 
We note that the meeting notice must also include this level of detail. 
The complaint also alleges that the Commission "failed to establish that an open meeting 
on the matter would have a detrimental effect on their litigation position." Purpose 3 allows a 
public body to enter executive session to "discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining 
or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating 
position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). If the chair 
declares that holding an open meeting will have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of 
the public body, our office will generally defer to the chair and the public body's conclusion. A 
public body is not required to publicly establish that holding a meeting in open session would 
have a detrimental effect on its litigating position; the chair is just required to make the 
statement. Here, we credit Counselor Quirk's memory that the chair did make this declaration. 
The Commission discussed its strategy with respect to a superior court decision. We believe that 
the Commission was justified in meeting in executive session to protect its litigation position. 
The complainant finally alleges that there are no minutes available for the Commission's 
August 31, 2011 meeting. We reviewed both the open and executive session minutes. The 
executive session minutes continue to be withheld from the public because the purpose for the 
executive session has not yet expired. See G. L. c. 30A, § 22(f). In reviewing the minutes of the 
1  In the Complainant's letter to this office received on December 14, 2011, the complainant further alleges that the 
Commission's meeting notice did not list the topics the chair reasonable anticipated. It does not appear that this 
allegation was filed with the Commission prior to being raised with our office. The Open Meeting Law requires that 
all allegations be filed first with the Commission before being filed with the Attorney General. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Sincerely 
Commission's August 31, 2011 executive session, we note that the minutes do not meet the 
Open Meeting Law's requirements for detail. The minutes of any open or executive session 
must include "a summary of the discussions on each subject." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). According 
to the minutes of the Commission's August 31, 2011 executive session, the session lasted 52 
minutes. However, the minutes contain no detail of any discussion, and include only the record 
of a vote. Even if the minutes may be protected from public release by the Public Records Law 
or the attorney/client privilege, the Commission must still comply with the requirement to create 
complete, accurate, and detailed minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Commission followed the proper procedures in convening an executive 
session on August 31, 2011. We find that the Commission failed to provide sufficient detail in 
stating the purpose for its August 31, 2011 executive session. We do not believe this to have 
been an intentional violation. We also find that the minutes of the Commission's August 31, 
2011 executive session are incomplete. 
We order the Commission's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, and further order the Commission to amend its August 31, 2011 executive session minutes 
to include a summary of the Commissions discussion. This should occur within thirty (30) days 
of receipt of this letter. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during this investigation, and 
now consider this matter closed. This letter does not resolve any other complaints that may be 
pending with this office or the Board. Please contact me if you have any questions regarding this 
letter. 
J athan Sclarsic 
/Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Bernard Brahm 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a public body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be 
filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 