===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
David J. Sousa, Chairman 
Stoughton Board of Selectmen 
10 Pearl Street 
Stoughton, MA 02072 
November 7, 2017 
OML 2017-168 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chairman Sousa: 
This office received two related complaints from Barbara Anzivino, both dated August 7, 
alleging that the Stoughton Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaints were originally filed with the Board on July 12, and the 
Board responded by a single letter dated August 4.2 In her complaints, Ms. Anzivino alleges that 
the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) deliberating outside of a noticed meeting, and 
(ii) posting a meeting notice that contained insufficient detail about an anticipated agenda 
discussion topic. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting 
an insufficiently detailed meeting notice. However, we find no evidence that the Board 
deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the Board's reply, and the request for further review filed with our office. We also 
reviewed the notice and minutes of a Board meeting held on June 29. We reviewed additional 
information sent to our office by the Board's legal counsel via e-mail on October 5 and 20. 
Finally, we reviewed a video recording of the Board's June 29 meeting.3 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 While not raised in the complaint, we note that the Board did not respond to the present Open Meeting Law 
complaint within the time frame required by law. Unless an extension of time has been granted, a public body must, 
within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, send a copy of the complaint to the Attorney 
General's Office and notify the Attorney General's Office of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 
CMR 29.05(5), (6). We remind the Board of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
3 The video recording is available here: 
http://71.184.118.35/Cablecast/Public/Show.aspx?ChannelID= 1 &ShowID=4842. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum. The complaints concern a Board meeting held on June 29, during 
which the Board discussed an appointment to an interim town manager position. Approximately 
five weeks before the June 29 meeting, Board Chairman David Sousa spoke with William Rowe 
about the vacant position.4 Chairman Sousa told Mr. Rowe that the position was vacant and that 
Chairman Sousa would like to nominate Mr. Rowe. Mr. Rowe, in turn, expressed interest in the 
nomination. Approximately two weeks before the June 29 meeting, Chairman Sousa again asked 
Mr. Rowe if he was interested in being nominated for the position, and Mr. Rowe again said that 
he was. At some point during this time period, Chairman Sousa discussed the possibility of 
appointing Mr. Rowe with another Board member, Robert Cohn. 
The Board posted notice for the June 29 meeting. The notice listed, among other topics, 
the following: "To Consider and Appoint an Interim Town Manager to take office on July 1, 
2017." No further information was listed about what the chair anticipated with regards to the 
interim town manager position or the identity of the candidate. The Board convened the June 29 
meeting as planned. After convening the meeting, and without any input from other Board 
members, the chair made a motion to appoint Mr. Rowe to the interim town manager position. 
The chair stated that he had spoken with Mr. Rowe, and that Mr. Rowe was interested in 
accepting the position. Following discussion, the Board voted to appoint Mr. Rowe to the 
position. 
DISCUSSION 
I. We Find No Evidence that the Board Deliberated Outside of a Noticed Meeting. 
The Open Meeting Taw requires all meetings of public bodies to be open to members of 
the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). The Open Meeting Taw defines a "meeting" as "a deliberation 
by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.T. c. 30A, § 18. 
"Deliberation" is, in turn, defined as, "an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business 
within its jurisdiction." Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Taw, a quorum is generally a 
simple majority of the member of the public body. Id. 
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board deliberated outside of a noticed 
meeting in deciding to appoint Mr. Rowe to the interim town manager position. While Chairman 
Sousa spoke with Mr. Cohn about the proposed appointment, their communication did not 
constitute communication between or among a quorum of the Board. The Board denies that any 
further communication took place on this topic prior to the June 29 meeting, and, absent 
sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body's version of the facts. See OML 
2017-138.5 The complaint notes that certain Board members moved to act on the matter of Mr. 
Rowe's appointment with relatively little discussion, implying that there had been prior 
communication about the topic. We have stated in prior determinations that agreement among 
public body members is insufficient to support the inference that those members deliberated 
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
outside of a noticed meeting. See OML 2017-93; OML 2013-128. Based on the foregoing, we 
find no evidence that the Board deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. 
II. The Board's June 29 Meeting Notice Lacked Sufficient Detail. 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include "a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting." Id. The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(1 )(b). 
Here, the complaint alleges that, because Chairman Sousa anticipated nominating Mr. 
Rowe to the interim town manager position, Mr. Rowe's name should have appeared on the 
meeting notice. We agree. We have stated in past determinations that where a public body chair 
knows the identities of individuals being considered for appointment, those names should be 
listed on the meeting notice. See OML 2015-196; OML 2014- 155. Here, rather than 
considering several candidates, the chair anticipated nominating a single person to the vacant 
position. We therefore conclude that Mr. Rowe's name should have appeared on the June 29 
meeting notice, and thus we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting a meeting notice that contained insufficient detail about an anticipated agenda discussion 
topic. We order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and 
we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
2012-113. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Ke 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Barbara Anzivino 
3 
===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 