===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 8, 2026 
 
OML 2026 – 75 
 
VIA EMAIL  
 
Richard A. Chaffee 
Chair, Brookfield Select Board 
 
selectmen@brookfieldma.us 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Chair Chaffee:  
 
This office received a complaint from Christopher Kelleher on December 5, 2025, 
alleging that the Brookfield Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint originally was filed with the Board on October 29 and you 
responded on behalf of the Board on December 4.  The complainant alleges that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law when a meeting that he attended remotely had no audio for the 
first five minutes of the meeting.   
 
We appreciate the parties’ patience as we reviewed this matter.  Following our review, 
we fin
d that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
the complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed the notice and minutes of the 
Board’s October 7 meeting.  Finally, we viewed a portion of the recording of the October 7 
meeting.
2 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  On October 2, the Board posted notice of a meeting to go 
forward on October 7.  The complainant requested and received a Teams link to attend the 
meeting remotely as a reasonable accommodation of a disability.  The meeting was held as 
scheduled.  When the meeting commenced, the complainant could not hear any audio.  He 
contacted Cable TV Coordinator / IT Manager Jacob Gorham to complain of the lack of sound.  
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2025 unless otherwise indicated. 
2 We accessed the recording at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q-
aobB1Fax4&list=PLEZBtq345cqzQaARJA4LIOJm8orNmTnbY&index=38.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Mr. Gorham did not alert the Board to the technical problem.  Instead, he spent the next three to 
five minutes attempting to restore the audio to the Teams connection.  Approximately five 
minutes after the meeting began, the audio issue was resolved and the complainant could hear the 
meeting via Teams.  The cause of the audio problem was a “loss of frequency synchronization in 
the wireless microphone transmitter system,” according to the Board.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement 
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except 
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”).  
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present as well as to 
see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2025-197; 
OML 2020-100; OML 2018-75; OML 2016-54.3   
 
For a meeting to be truly “open to the public,” it must be accessible to people with 
disabilities. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); see also OML 2025-197; OML 2023-43; OML 2020-47; 
OML 2015-38; OML 2012-49.  As a baseline, meetings of public bodies that are held in person 
must be held in locations that comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”), even in 
the absence of any particular request or known accessibility need.  See, e.g., OML 2024-130 
(explaining that public body violated the Open Meeting Law when meeting was held in a non-
ADA compliant location, even though there is no evidence any person was unable to attend as a 
result); OML 2023-43 (same).  Title II of the ADA requires that municipal services, including 
public meetings, be made accessible to people with disabilities, and therefore additional 
reasonable accommodations must be provided upon request to people with disabilities.  See 42 
U.S.C. §§ 12131-12165 (1990); OML 2014-109; OML 2012-49.  Therefore, we interpret the 
Open Meeting Law as requiring public bodies to hold meetings that are consistent with the 
requirements of the ADA.  Here, the complainant was provided with a Teams link to access 
meeting, in response to his request for a reasonable accommodation.  However, that link did not 
provide audio for the first five minutes of the meeting.  We therefore find that the Board violated 
the Open Meeting Law where its October 7 meeting was inaccessible to the complainant for a 
period of time. 
 
To the extent that the complaint places responsibility on Mr. Gorham for failure to alert 
the Board to the technical difficulties, we decline to review such an allegation.  The Open 
Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and individuals acting as public body members. See 
OML 2025-160; OML Declination 4-1-26 (Middleborough Conservation Commission).  
Municipal employees, staff, and individual public officials are not subject to the Open Meeting 
Law.  See OML 2021-3; OML 2012-28.  Therefore, Mr. Gorham’s actions, standing alone, 
cannot form the basis of an Open Meeting Law violation.   
 
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
To the extent that the complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
waiting until commencement of the meeting to turn on the Teams audio, we decline to review 
that allegation.  It may be best practice to test audio and video equipment prior to going “live”; 
this approach might have detected the technical difficulty prior to commencement of the 
meeting. As we have explained to the complainant, however, the Open Meeting Law does not 
obligate a public body to turn on the audio for remote participants prior to commencement of the 
meeting.  See OML 2025-136 (“The Board was not required to provide Mr. Kelleher with remote 
access to the meeting room prior to commencement of the meeting.”). 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board viola ted the Open Meeting Law 
when it provided a link to attend a meeting remotely as a reasonable accommodation of a 
disability and that link did not provide audio for a portion of the meeting.  We order immediate 
and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations 
may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,  
   
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Christopher Kelleher   
Brookfield Town Administrator (via email: townadministrator@brookfieldma.us) 
Brookfield Town Clerk (via email: mseery@brookfieldma.us)  
 
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
