===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
February 16, 2018 
OML 2018-20 
Eileen M. McGettigan, Esq. 
Special Counsel 
Law Department 
Somerville City Hall 
93 Highland Avenue 
Somerville, MA 02143 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney McGettigan: 
This office received a complaint from Claudia Murrow on July 7 alleging that the 
Somerville Redevelopment Authority (the "Authority") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Authority on May 26; and you 
responded, on behalf of the Authority, by letter dated June 15, following an extension of time 
granted by our office. The complaint alleges that i) the Authority failed to follow certain 
procedural requirements before convening in executive session on April 27; ii) the draft open 
session minutes for the Authority's April 27 meeting are inaccurate; and iii) the April 27 meeting 
was not accessible.2 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this complaint. Following 
our review, we find that the Authority violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to identify the 
litigation matter it planned to discuss before convening in executive session. We find that the 
Authority did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged, however. In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Authority's response to the 
complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the Authority's 
supplemental response to the complaint. We also reviewed the notice of, and open session 
minutes from, the Authority's April 27 meeting; the open session minutes from the Authority's 
' Unless otherwise noted, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 Ms. Murrow filed a second complaint with the Authority on July 7 alleging similar violations at a June 8 meeting. 
We find that complaint to be untimely. Requests for the Attorney General's review of an Open Meeting Law 
complaint must be filed with the Attorney General's Office within 90 days of the alleged violation. 940 C.M.R. 
29.05(7). The complaint identifies June 8 as the day of the alleged violation. Therefore, a request for further review 
would have been due by September 6. However, the request for further review was not received until October 16. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
June 8 meeting; and audio recordings of the Authority's April 27 and June 8 meetings. Finally, 
we spoke with the complainant by telephone on September 11 and October 13; and with you by 
telephone on February 13, 2018.3 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Authority posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
Thursday, April 27 at 5:30 p.m. in the Somerville High School Library. The Authority 
anticipated a larger than usual crowd for this meeting and therefore chose to meet in the High 
School library, rather than its normal meeting location in City Hall. The notice listed eight 
topics, including "Union Square Update" and an Executive Session to discuss "Litigation 
Strategy." 
The Authority met on April 27 and discussed the redevelopment of Union Square. There 
were approximately 95 people in attendance at this meeting. Shortly after the discussion began, 
a member of the public shouted that the Authority members could not be heard. Thereafter, 
Authority members made a conscious effort to raise their voices. After approximately a one-
hour discussion of the Union Square matter, the Authority voted to authorize execution of the 
Master Land Disposition Agreement. The Authority then unanimously voted to submit the 
Master Land Disposition Agreement to the Department of Housing and Community 
Development. A number of people in the room began to chant loudly. The Authority then 
approved a unanimous vote by roll call to convene in executive session "for the purpose of 
discussing litigation strategy" and stated it would not reconvene in open session. 
On or about May 24, the complainant was provided with a copy of draft open session 
minutes from the Authority's April 27 meeting. These draft minutes did not include a list of 
documents or exhibits used by the Authority during that meeting. 
The Authority met on June 8. At the start of this meeting. Chair Nancy Busnach clarified 
that the Authority entered into executive session on April 27 "to discuss litigation strategy 
related to the Pishev and Fahey matters." The Authority then approved the April 27 meeting 
minutes, which had been revised to include a list of documents and exhibits used by the 
Authority at that meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body may enter executive, or closed, session provided that it has first 
convened in an open session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into 
executive session, and that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into 
the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). Before entering the executive session, the chair must state 
the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called, and the chair must 
publicly announce whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive 
session. Id. 
3 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
A public body may enter executive session "[t]o discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). When convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public 
body should identify the litigation matter or bargaining unit to be discussed, if doing so will not 
compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy. See OML 2016-12; OML 2013-97.4 While we 
generally defer to a public body's assessment of whether the inclusion of such information would 
compromise the purpose for the executive session, a public body must be able to demonstrate a 
reasonable basis for such a claim if challenged. See OML 2017-87; OML 2016-12. 
The complaint alleges that the Authority failed to announce the specific litigation matters 
it planned to discuss in executive session on April 27, and that the Authority did not conduct a 
roll call vote prior to convening in that executive session. We agree that the Authority violated 
the Open Meeting Law where its announcement prior to convening in executive session did not 
include information about the specific litigation matters it planned to discuss. See OML 2018-
11; OML 2014-97. The Authority does not suggest that inclusion of such information would 
have compromised the purpose for the executive session. In fact, at a June 8 meeting, the chair 
announced that the Authority "went into executive session to discuss litigation strategy related to 
the Pishev and Fahey matters" on April 27.5 We commend the Authority for taking such 
remedial action in response to the complaint. With respect to conducting a roll call vote prior to 
convening in executive session on April 27, we find no evidence that the Authority failed to 
conduct a roll call vote. The Authority's Attorney, Eileen McGettigan, has assured our office 
that the Authority conducted a roll call vote prior to convening in executive session and the 
minutes so indicate. The audio recording does not specifically contradict this statement as the 
section of the recording that would have captured the vote contains piercing background noise 
over which nothing else can be heard. Absent evidence to the contrary, we credit the Authority's 
version of events and find that it did conduct a roll call vote, and therefore did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law in this regard. See OML 2016-58. 
The complaint next alleges that the draft minutes from the Authority's April 27 meeting 
are not accurate and do not include a list of documents used during the meeting. The Open 
Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, 
including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or 
absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used 
at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of 
all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 
2013-64. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and 
accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes 
and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2016-105; OML 2012-106. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 The complainant alleges that the chair's announcement of the specific litigation matters during the June 8 meeting 
was inaudible. While it was difficult to understand the word "Pishev," we find the difficulty to be because the chair 
struggled with the pronunciation of the name and not because she was speaking in a low or hushed voice. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
The draft minutes for the April 27 meeting do not include a list of documents used by the 
Authority. However, we note that these are draft minutes, and had not been approved as the final 
minutes by the Authority at the time the complaint was filed. A public body may revise draft 
minutes at any point prior to their approval to correct inaccuracies or add detail. Accordingly, 
because these minutes remained in draft form at the time of this complaint, we find that the 
Authority did not violate the Open Meeting Law by creating inaccurate or insufficiently detailed 
minutes. See OML 2014-13; OML 2014-7. The Authority approved a revised version of those 
minutes at its June 8 meeting, which included a list of documents. In addition, after reviewing 
the audio recording of the Authority's April 27 meeting, we find that the approved open session 
minutes provide an accurate and sufficiently detailed summary of the discussions that occurred. 
See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55 (while minutes must include a summary of the discussion on 
each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or 
opinion presented). 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the April 27 meeting was inaccessible because the 
public was unable to hear the discussions that occurred. The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to 
eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding deliberations and decisions on which public policy is 
based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law 
requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, 
unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Access to a meeting 
must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and hear what is being 
discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2017-135; OML 2015-38; OML 2014-
3; OML 2013-189. The April 27 meeting was held in a larger than usual room. Although 
Authority members were speaking in softer voices at the beginning of the meeting, we find they 
consciously made an effort to raise their voices throughout the remainder of the meeting when 
notified by the public that they could not be heard. As such, we find the meeting to be accessible 
and do not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Authority violated the Open Meeting Law where its announcement prior 
to convening in executive session did not include information about the specific litigation 
matters it planned to discuss. With respect to the remaining allegations, we find that the 
Authority did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We order the Authority's immediate and 
future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar future violations 
could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Authority or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Claudia Murrow 
Somerville 
Redevelopment Authority 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
5 