===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL:(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
May 22,2015 
OML 2015-69 
Louis M. Ross, Esq. 
Deutsch Williams P.C. 
One Design Center Place 
Suite 600 
Boston, MA 02210 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Ross: 
This office received a complaint from Attorney Jason Talerman on behalf of his clients, 
Steven Crummey and Alex Koines (the "Complainants"), dated January 7, 2015, alleging that the 
Cohasset Zoning Board of Appeals (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board: 1) failed to provide a sufficiently 
detailed notice for its December 1, 2014 executive session meeting; 2) entered into executive 
session for an improper purpose during the same meeting; and 3) unlawfully deliberated via 
email regarding the Board's draft decision denying the Complainants' appeal of a building 
permit. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on December 18, 2014. The Board 
responded by letter dated January 5, 2015. 
Following our review, we find that the notice for the Board's December 1, 2014 meeting 
was not sufficiently specific, but that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the 
other ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the 
Board, the Board's response, and the complaint filed with our office. We reviewed the notice 
for, and open session minutes of, the Board's November 3, 2014 and December 1, 2014 
meetings. Additionally, we reviewed a signed affidavit submitted to our office by Board Chair 
S. Woodworth Chittick, dated January 2, 2015. We also reviewed letters dated February 3 and 
February 4, 2015 from Attorney Kate Moran Carter, sent on behalf of her clients, John and 
Martha Shaw (the property owners whose property was the subject of the Complainants' 
appeal).1 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
1 The Shaws are not a party to this complaint. 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Complainants filed an appeal with the Board 
challenging the Town Building Commissioner's issuance of a building permit allowing 
construction of a home in Cohasset. The Board opened a public hearing on the appeal on 
October 6, 2014, and held an additional hearing date during its November 3, 2014 meeting. 
During the November 3, 2014 hearing, Chair S. Woodworth Chittick and Attorney Talerman's 
law partner, Lisa Mead, representing the Complainants, discussed an extension of time for the 
Board to consider the appeal. The minutes record the conversation as follows: "Attorney Mead 
stated that [the Complainants] would be willing to extend it to December 15th. Chairman 
Chittick stated they would consider January 15, 2015, or the Board could close, deliberate and 
deny this evening. Attorney Mead agreed to January 15th, but asked that the hearing keep 
moving forward." Both parties describe the tone of this exchange as confrontational. In addition 
to this exchange with counsel. Chair Chittick states that at one point during the meeting, the 
"appellant who filed the appeal from the issuance of the Building Permit mentioned litigation 
and 'going to court' and opined that he was confident that he would prevail on any litigation in 
Land court." 
On November 7, 2014, Attorney Talerman sent a letter to the Board expressing concern 
regarding the Board's actions during the earlier hearing sessions. With respect to the November 
3, 2014 discussion of extending the Board's time to reach a decision in the appeal. Attorney 
Talerman wrote that, "such pretextual comments are clear evidence of the type of arbitrary, 
whimsical and capricious actions that are precluded in the deliberations of a presiding zoning 
board." 
The Board held a third session of the public hearing during its December 1, 2014 
meeting. The notice for that meeting also included the following topic for discussion: "Roll call 
vote to go into executive session under Exemption 3 - To discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining or litigating position of the public body." During the meeting, the chair stated that the 
Board would enter into executive session, "to discuss strategy with respect to litigation, as a 
discussion in an Open Meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the 
body." The Board has not publicly released the minutes of this executive session, citing ongoing 
litigation with the Complainants and its own attorney/client privilege.2 However, in a signed 
affidavit, Chair Chittick writes that, "as a result of [Attorney Talerman's November 7, 2014] 
correspondence and the discussion regarding litigation that occurred at the public hearing a 
couple of days earlier the Board believed that that threat, along with the statements made at the 
2 We requested a copy of the Board's unredacted December 1,2014 executive session meeting minutes for an in 
camera review. The Board declined to provide our office with a copy of the minutes, citing its attorney/client 
privilege. The Open Meeting Law authorizes the Attorney General to investigate a complaint alleging a violation of 
the law and to request documents in the course of that investigation. G.L. c. 30A, §24(a). However, the law also 
provides that the Attorney General may not require a public body to disclose "any documentary material which 
would be privileged." G.L. c. 30A, § 24(e); OML 2012-41 (Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the 
Attorney General's website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting). Based on the information provided by the Board, 
we have no reason to doubt that the Board's claim of attorney/client privilege is valid. Thus, we agreed to accept a 
signed affidavit by Chair Chittick as the official explanation of what occurred during the executive session. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
session of the hearing, was a threat of imminent litigation against the Board if it decided the 
matter before it in any way that was contrary to the legal position set forth by counsel." 
According to Chair Chittick, during the executive session, "the Board discussed [Attorney 
Talerman's] November 7, 2014 correspondence and the Board's counsel expressed her opinion 
regarding the law and the threatened litigation, and that is all." We credit Chair Chittick's 
account of the executive session. 
At the conclusion of the executive session on December 1, 2014, the Board returned to 
open session and continued its meeting. After discussing two items of business, the Board 
turned to the hearing of the appeal filed by the Complainants. Attorney Talerman addressed the 
Board regarding the merits of his clients' appeal. Additionally, he raised questions regarding the 
executive session that had occurred at the beginning of the meeting. Attorney Talerman asked 
the Chair if the executive session was related to the property being considered in the appeal. The 
Chair replied that the executive session was indeed about that property. The Board formally 
concluded the hearing and, following a lengthy discussion, voted unanimously to deny the 
Complainants' appeal. The Board then reviewed, during open session, a draft written decision 
denying the appeal. Board members stated that they wished to edit the draft document. Chair 
Chittick stated that such edits could be circulated, discussed, and incorporated via email. In his 
January 2, 2015 affidavit. Chair Chittick explains that: 
Due to the volume of applications and appeals before the Board of Appeals at any point 
in time, and deadlines that the Board is statutorily mandated to meet, the Board has a 
decades-old procedure whereby one member of the Board 'volunteers' to write an initial 
draft of a decision on an application before the Board... [the] draft.. .is analyzed, 
commented upon, deliberated on (only in open session) and is subject to edit or change 
by addition or subtraction of materials and information... The substance of the draft 
decision, while disseminated prior to the actual resumed hearing date, is never deliberated 
on outside of the public hearing. 
On December 24, 2014, the Complainants filed a lawsuit against the Board in Land 
Court, Docket No. 14-MISC-489038, challenging the Board's denial of its appeal of the Town's 
issuance of the building permit for the disputed property. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Board Failed to Post a Sufficiently Detailed Notice of its December 1. 2014 
Executive Session Discussion. 
Before entering into executive session, the chair of a public body must state the purpose 
for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. G.L. c. BOA, § 21(b)(3). The law also 
requires that all meeting notices include "a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Furthermore, the notice must list those 
topics with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). In general, this level of detail applies equally to open 
session and executive session topics listed on a meeting notice. See OML 2011-56; OML 2011-
3 
===PAGE 4===
15. However, given the sensitive nature of executive session topics, it may be reasonable at 
times for a public body to withhold details that may compromise the purpose for entering 
executive session. See OML 2011-56. 
The notice for the Board's December 1, 2014 meeting included the following topic for 
discussion: "Roll call vote to go into executive session under Exemption 3 - To discuss strategy 
with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body." While the notice identified a 
valid executive session purpose, it did not list the topic with "sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting," as it failed to identify "all subjects 
that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was 
called." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The Board should have specified that the 
potential litigation it was discussing was related to the Complainants' appeal. See OML 2013-
91; OML 2012-118. While revealing such information would have alerted the Complainants that 
the Board was considering the litigation consequences of its actions, the Board has not offered 
any explanation for why this revelation would have been detrimental to the Board's litigating 
position. In fact, the Chair disclosed the subject of the executive session to Attorney Talerman in 
response to his question immediately after the executive session concluded. Accordingly, we 
find that this information should have been included in the Board's meeting notice, and the 
Board's failure to include it violated the Open Meeting Law. 
2. The Board Entered into Executive Session for a Proper Purpose. 
A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. 
c. 3 OA, § 21(a). One such purpose allows a public body to enter into executive session to 
"discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have 
a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). Litigation must be pending or clearly and 
imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. See Perrvman v. School Committee of 
Boston. 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2013-23. 
The Board entered into executive session during its December 1, 2014 meeting to discuss 
with its attorney the litigation consequences of its potential actions regarding the Complainants' 
appeal. While litigation was not pending yet at that time, it was demonstrably likely given the 
circumstances (and, in fact, the Complainants did file a civil suit shortly after the Board's denial 
of their appeal). The confrontational exchanges between the Board Chair and counsel during the 
November 3, 2014 meeting; Attorney Talerman's November 7, 2014 letter to the Board; as well 
as the level of legal argument taking place between the Complainants and the property owners 
led the Board to conclude that litigation was demonstrably likely no matter which way it ruled. 
The Board was therefore justified in meeting in executive session for the limited purpose of 
discussing with counsel its litigation strategy with respect to permitting for this property. 
We note that Purpose 3 may not be used to discuss the merits of an appeal of the decision 
to issue a building permit. See OML 2013-23. However, we credit Chair Chittick's account 
that, here, the Board's discussion concerned only strategy with respect to threatened litigation 
4 
===PAGE 5===
and not the substance of the appeal itself. We therefore find that this discussion was appropriate 
for executive session under Purpose 3. 
3. We find No Evidence that the Board Discussed its Draft Decision over Email. 
A public body may deliberate only during a noticed meeting. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(b). 
A "deliberation" is "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Deliberation does not include the distribution of a meeting 
agenda, scheduling information, or distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at 
a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed. Id. 
The complaint alleges that Board members discussed via email, following the Board's 
December 1, 2014 meeting, edits to a draft written decision denying the Complainants' appeal. 
In support of this allegation, the Complainants point to the Chair's statement during the 
December 1, 2014 meeting that Board members' edits to the draft decision could be circulated, 
discussed and incorporated via email. Despite this statement during the meeting, the Board 
states that no emails concerning the draft decision were ever sent by its members. Further, in his 
affidavit to our office, Chair Chittick writes that, "[t]he substance of the draft decisions, while 
disseminated prior to the actual resumed hearing date, is never deliberated on outside of the 
public hearing." In the absence of any evidence to the contrary, we decline to find that the Board 
deliberated over email. 
We find that the notice for the Board's December 1, 2014 meeting was not sufficiently 
specific. We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways 
alleged. We order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, 
and caution the Board that a similar, future violation may be considered evidence of an 
intentional violation of the Law. 
We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve 
any other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Board. Please feel free to 
contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Cohasset Zoning Board of Appeals 
Jason R. Talerman, Esq. 
5 
===PAGE 6===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
6 