===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 7, 2022 
 
OML 2022 – 72 
 
 
Matthew G. Feher, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C.  
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE:        Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Feher: 
 
This office received two complaints from Patrick Higgins on November 19, 2021, 
alleging that the Somerset Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners (the “Board”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The first complaint was originally filed with the 
Board on October 3; the second complaint was originally filed with the Board on October 28; 
and you responded to both complaints, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated November 19.  The 
first complaint alleges that the Board failed to include sufficient specificity on the notice for the 
Board meeting held on September 30.  The second complaint alleges that the Board failed to 
timely approve the minutes of a meeting held on August 18 and failed to timely respond to the 
first Open Meeting Law complaint.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the ways 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s 
response to the complaints, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  In 
addition, we reviewed the notices and minutes of the Board meetings held on September 30, 
October 12, October 27, and November 10. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On September 28 at 2:45 P.M., the Board posted notice of a 
meeting to be held on September 30 at 3:00 P.M.  The notice listed nine topics, including  
“Correspondence received,” “Consider approval of Connections Applications or Licenses,” and 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
an Executive Session to discuss strategy with respect to litigation, to conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel for “temporary position,” and to conduct 
contract negotiations with the Superintendent.  The notice also listed the approval of three sets of 
meeting minutes, including the minutes of meetings held on August 18, September 1 and 
September 15. 
 
The September 30 meeting was held as planned.  During the meeting, the Board approved 
routine vouchers for the Water Department, discussed reservoir water levels and water quality,  
as well as collection efforts for overdue bills, and received updates from the Superintendent of 
Water and Sewer regarding a solar array project, the fiscal year 2021 budget, and the hiring of an 
assistance mechanic.  The Board did not review or discuss any correspondence, applications or 
licenses, nor did it approve any minutes during this meeting.   
 
After discussing the noticed open session topics, the Board unanimously voted by roll 
call to enter into executive session pursuant to Purpose 2 to “conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel for temporary position.”  Although not at 
issue here, the Board also convened in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2 to conduct 
contract negotiations with the Superintendent and pursuant to Purpose 3 to discuss litigation.  
The Board reconvened in open session at the conclusion of its executive session discussions, 
announced that it had approved a salary increase for the Superintendent of Water and Sewer, and 
then adjourned the meeting.   
 
On October 3, the complainant filed the first Open Meeting Law complaint alleging that 
the Board failed to post a sufficiently specific notice for the September 30 meeting.  On October 
28, the complainant filed a second Open Meeting Law complaint regarding the Board’s failure to 
timely approve meeting minutes and failure to respond to his first complaint within 14 business 
days.  During an October 27 meeting, the Board reviewed both Open Meeting Law complaints 
and designated Town legal counsel to respond.  Town Counsel thereafter responded, on behalf of 
the Board, to both Open Meeting Law complaints on November 19. 
 
During a November 10 meeting, the Board approved the minutes of the meeting held on 
August 18. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board Posted an Insufficiently Specific Notice for its September 30 
Meeting with respect to an Executive Session Topic. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting” and that every notice include “the date, time and place of such 
meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Public bodies are required to list topics on a notice with 
“sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(1) (b).  We generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35.2   
 
The first complaint alleges that the Board failed to include sufficient specificity with 
respect to two of the open session topics and one of the executive session topics listed on the 
notice for the Board’s September 30 meeting.  First, the complaint alleges that the open session 
topics of “Correspondence received” and “Consider approval of Connections Applications or 
Licenses” failed to include the specific correspondence, applications or licenses that the Board 
planned to discuss during the meeting.  When reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless 
it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting notice standing alone.  See OML 
2015-109; OML 2014-155.  Rather, we review what was actually discussed at the meeting to 
determine if the notice was sufficiently detailed to make the public aware of the discussion 
topics.  Here, the Board did not review or discuss any correspondence, applications or licenses 
during the meeting.  Therefore, we find no violation with respect to the sufficiency of these open 
session topics listed on the notice.  When a public body does not actually deliberate on a noticed 
topic, the public body cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to that topic, even if it 
would have been insufficiently detailed had the public body proceeded with its deliberation.  See 
OML 2015-63; OML 2014-81. 
 
Second, the complaint alleges that the Board failed to include the specific nonunion 
personnel with whom the Board would be negotiating in executive session.  Here, the meeting 
notice stated that the Board would convene in executive session under Purpose 2 “to conduct 
strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel for temporary 
position.”  When convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2, a public body must 
identify the nonunion personnel with whom it will be negotiating, if doing so will not 
compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy.  See OML 2020-21; OML 2017-53; OML 2016-43.  
The Board suggests that there was “no more formal title for the temporary position that could 
have been included” on the notice and therefore it “provided as much detail as possible.”  We 
disagree.  Although we acknowledge that the Board provided some information regarding the 
type of nonunion personnel that would be discussed during the executive session, we understand 
that the temporary position was an administrative support position.  As such, the Board should 
have included this additional language on the notice and its failure to do so was a violation of the 
Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2011-56.   
 
II. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Timely Approve 
the  Minutes of its August 18 Meeting. 
 
The second complaint concerns the Board’s failure to timely approve the minutes of the 
Board meeting held on August 18.  The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create 
and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the 
date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each 
subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the 
actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
meeting minutes must be reviewed and approved in a timely manner.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  
“Timely manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, 
whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.”  See 940 CMR 
29.11; OML 2018-48.3  Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a meeting be 
approved at the next meeting.  See OML 2018-67; OML 2017-133.  
 
The Board approved the minutes of its August 18  meeting during its November 10 
meeting, which was the sixth meeting thereafter.  As such, we find that the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law by failing to approve these minutes in a timely manner.   
 
We remind the Board that the responsibility for complying with the Open Meeting Law 
rests with public bodies and members of such bodies, not with individual public employees, such 
as administrative staff.  See OML 2018-105.  We understand the demands on a public body with 
limited staff; however, the Board is still obligated to timely approve minutes.  See OML 2018-
111; OML 2017-115.  If staff resources are not available to create minutes for the Board to 
approve, then Board members must take on this responsibility to ensure compliance with the law.  
See OML 2017-115.   
 
III. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Timely Respond 
to an Open Meeting Law Complaint. 
 
The second complaint also concerns the Board’s failure to respond to the first Open 
Meeting Law complaint in the timeframe required by the law.  The Open Meeting Law requires 
that within 14 days of receipt of a complaint, the public body review the complaint’s allegations; 
take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint 
and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  A 
public body must meet to review the complaint and formulate a response, or meet to delegate 
that authority, and respond to the complaint within 14 business days.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 
OML 2017-69; OML 2012-90.  
 
The Board concedes that it did not respond to the complaint within the timeframe 
required by the Open Meeting Law.  Here, the Board received the complaint on October 3 but 
did not review the complaint until its October 27 meeting.  Thereafter, the Board forwarded the 
complaint to Town Counsel for response who responded to the complaint, on behalf of the 
Board, on November 19 – 33 business days after the complaint was filed.  Although it is the 
public body’s prerogative to simply refer a complaint to legal counsel for response rather than 
discuss the complaint’s substance after the body has reviewed that complaint during a meeting, a 
response to the complaint must still occur within 14 business days, unless the body secures an 
extension from the Director of the Division of Open Government.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 
CMR 29.05(5); OML 2019-40; OML 2017-69.  Because the Board failed to respond to an Open 
Meeting Law complaint within 14 business days, we find that it violated the Open Meeting Law.   
 
 
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to sufficiently identify on the notice for its September 30 meeting the nonunion personnel 
it would be discussing in executive session, failing to approve minutes of its August 18 meeting 
in a timely manner, and failing to respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 business 
days.  We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and 
caution that future similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
  
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
   
 
cc:       Patrick Higgins – By email only:  
Somerset Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners c/o Office Manager Jacquelyn 
Ferreira – By email only:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must 
be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
