===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 15, 2013 
OML 2013-95 
Robert Coakley 
Kennedy Park Committee 
6 Walker Street 
Lenox, MA 01240 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Coakley: 
This office received a complaint from Sonya Bykofsky, dated January 30, 2013, alleging 
that the Kennedy Park Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that, with regard to its October 18, 2012 
meeting, the Committee (1) failed to include in its minutes an accurate summary of the 
discussion of each topic; (2) discussed topics that were not listed in the meeting notice; and (3) 
posted a topic in the meeting notice under the heading "New Business" that should have been 
included under the heading "Old Business." Ms. Bykofsky filed her complaint with the 
Committee on November 15, 2012. The Committee responded to the complaint by letter on 
December 24, 2012. 
In reaching our determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Committee on 
November 15, 2012; the Committee's December 24, 2012 response; the January 30, 2013 
complaint filed with our office; and the notice and meeting minutes for the Committee's October 
18, 2012 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
because (1) the Committee's October 18, 2012 meeting minutes include an accurate summary of 
the discussion of each topic; (2) the unnoticed topics the Committee discussed during its October 
18, 2012 meeting were not reasonably anticipated by the Chair 48 hours in advance of the 
meeting; and (3) the Committee is not required to list "New Business" or "Old Business" as 
categories in its meeting notices. 
Based on our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. The 
Committee met in open session on October 18, 2012. The notice for the meeting included the 
FACTS 
Cs 
===PAGE 2===
following topics under the heading "Old Business:" "Kiwi update; Beaver update; and Trail 
Maintenance update." The notice included the following topics under the heading "New 
Business:" "Welcome new member Dr. Andrew Breslin; Rob Akroyd presentation on new 
entrance to park at water tank; Discuss handicap path to view site; and Discuss trees blocking 
views at gazebo and Balance Rock." 
The minutes for the October 18, 2012 meeting indicate that at the beginning of the 
meeting, the complainant raised an issue regarding her neighbor cutting down upright trees in the 
Park. The Committee created a "Citizen's Forum" portion of the meeting to address the 
complainant's concern. The Committee discussed whether to send a letter to the property owner 
to remind him that tree cutting was not allowed in the Park without permission. The Chairman 
explained in his December 24, 2012 letter responding to the complaint that the Committee did 
not reach a decision on whether to write and send the letter, thus no letter was sent. 
During the meeting, a Committee member raised a topic regarding a plaque that had been 
discussed in previous meetings but was not on the agenda for the October 18, 2012 meeting. 
After a brief discussion, the Committee decided to add the topic as an agenda item for its next 
meeting. Committee member Ruth Wheler also reported that she was the liaison with the Open 
Space Recreation Plan. Finally, a presentation was given by Rob Akroyd regarding a new 
entrance to the Park, which was included under the "New Business" heading in the agenda. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Committee did not Violate the Open Meeting Law Because it Included in its Minutes 
an Accurate Summary of the Discussion of Each Topic. 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to "create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). While minutes must include a summary of the 
discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include 
every remark or opinion presented. See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55.1 When reviewing 
minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the 
accuracy requirement. This means that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy 
so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred. See id. 
The complainant alleges that during the meeting the Committee decided to send a letter to 
a property owner, and that the decision is not reflected in the meeting minutes. Flowever, the 
meeting minutes reflect that while the Committee discussed sending a letter, no decision was 
ultimately made, thus no letter was sent. Therefore, we find that the Committee did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law because its minutes are accurate. 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
2. The Committee did not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Discussing Topics that were 
not Listed in the Meeting Notice. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, and include a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). However, topics that arise 
fewer than 48 hours before the meeting may be considered by the public body, even if they were 
not listed in the meeting notice, if they were not reasonably anticipated by the chair 48 hours 
before the meeting. See OML 2013-75; OML 2013-61.2 
The complainant alleges that the Committee discussed topics during its October 18, 2012 
meeting that were not listed in the notice, including: "approval and suggested changes for a 
plaque; liaison preparation for town leading to grant; and citizen's forum." We conclude that 
these topics were not anticipated 48 hours in advance of the meeting. The topic of the plaque 
was brought up independently by a Committee member, and Ruth Wheler reported, of her own 
initiative, that she was the liaison with the Open Space Recreation Plan. The Citizen's Forum 
was added to the meeting following the Complainant's own comments. Therefore, we find that 
the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing topics that were not listed in 
the meeting notice. 
3. The Committee did not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Listing a Topic in the Meeting 
Notice under the Heading "New Business" Instead of Under the Heading "Old Business." 
The complainant alleges that the presentation given by Rob Akroyd regarding a new 
entrance to the Park, which was included under the "New Business" heading in the agenda, 
should have been included under the "Old Business" heading in the agenda. 
Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with, "sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b). However, the Open Meeting Law does not dictate how public bodies must organize 
topics within their meeting notices. Here, the topic was listed in the meeting notice with 
sufficient specificity, thus the public was aware the item would be discussed. That a topic that 
could be considered "Old Business" was listed under "New Business" does not constitute a 
violation of the law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law with regards to its October 18, 2012 meeting because (1) the Committee included 
in its minutes an accurate summary of the discussion of each topic; (2) the topics the Committee 
discussed that were not listed in the meeting notice were not reasonably anticipated 48 hours in 
advance of the meeting; and (3) the Committee is not required to list "New Business" or "Old 
Business" as categories in its meeting notices. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
3 
===PAGE 4===
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this 
determination, please contact our office at (617) 963-2540. 
Sincerely, 
- Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Sonya Bykofsky 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 