===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
February 3, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 17 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Brian W. Riley, Esq. 
K P Law 
 
briley@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
 
This office received a complaint from Kelly Gallagher on October 20, 2025, alleging that 
the Norton Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about August 20, 2025, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated August 27.
1  The complaint alleges that notice 
of a meeting the Board held on July 22 was not sufficiently specific.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the way 
alleged in the complaint.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Board’s response and the request for further review.  We also reviewed the notice 
of the Board’s July 22 meeting.  Finally, we researched use of the word “recodification” on 
websites of other municipalities within Massachusetts.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 W e generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s 
discussion.  See OML 2023-3; OML 2019-134; OML 2015- 35.2  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an 
informed decision whether to attend the meeting to observe the discussion regarding a topic of 
interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22.   
 
Notice of the July 22 meeting listed as a topic of discussion “zoning bylaw 
recodification.”  The complainant alleges that this topic was not sufficiently specific because the 
Board discussed not only recodification of the existing bylaw but also substantive changes to it.  
Recodification is generally understood as a re-organization of laws, as contrasted with 
substantive amendments of laws.  Although standard dictionaries do not provide a very helpful 
definition of “recodification,” use of the term by other Massachusetts municipalities is 
instructive.  For example, in a “zoning bylaw update,” the Andover Planning Department likened 
recodification to a “‘spring cleaning’ for ordinances and bylaws,” with, e.g., formatting and 
organizational changes geared toward creating “a more navigable, readable ordinance or 
bylaw.”3  Similarly, the Wakefield Planning Board has stated: “Zoning recodification is the 
process by which the chapters within an existing zoning code are reformatted and rearranged to 
follow a more logical sequence, and by which the outdated or confusing language of the zoning 
code is revised.  A zoning recodification helps to restructure our municipal zoning bylaws into a 
manner that is clear and easy to follow.”4  The City of Melrose offers a very similar explanation 
on its website: “A Zoning Recodification is a process whereby the existing code is reformatted 
and rearranged to follow a more logical sequence and any language that is confusing or outdated 
is revised.  This helps make the code more accessible and navigable.”5   
 
In its response, the Board agreed that recodification is “commonly understood to be a 
reorganization of text as opposed to revisions to it” and that at its July 22 meeting, it discussed 
both recodification and substantive amendments to the bylaws.  While not conceding a violation 
of the Open Meeting Law, the Board acknowledged that in light of the notice, “some members of 
the public may have not understood the full nature or scope of the planned discussion of Sections 
6.0, 7.0, 8.0 or 9.0 of the Zoning Bylaw at its July 22, 2025 meeting.”  Because notice of the July 
22 meeting did not list as a topic the consideration of substantive amendments to the bylaws, we 
find it insufficiently specific.  We commend the Board for committing to provide sufficient topic 
descriptions on future notices. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently specific notice of its July 22 meeting.  We order immediate and future 
compliance with the law’s requirements and we caution that similar future violations may be 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting  
3 See Andover Zoning Bylaw Update 09-2021, available at 
https://andoverma.gov/DocumentCenter/View/10083/Andover-Zoning-Bylaw-Update-09-2021.  
4 https://www.wakefieldma.gov/807/Zoning-Recodification  
5 https://www.cityofmelrose.org/m/faq?cat=32#question-147  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  To the extent that the complainant asks that we 
order the Board to mail notice to residents affected by proposed bylaw amendments, or that we 
order the Board to create an outline of proposed amendments, we decline to order such remedies. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
S
incerely, 
 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Kelly Gallagher (via email: ) 
 Paul DiGiuseppe, Norton  Planning Board (via email: pdigiuseppe@nortonmaus.com) 
 Jill Seppa, Norton Town Clerk (via email: jseppa@nortonmaus.com) 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
