===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 25, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 71 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Brian Riley, Esq. 
KP Law 
BRiley@k-plaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
 
This office received a complaint from Attorney David Click on behalf of his client the 
Grafton & Upton Railroad Company (the “Complainant”) on September 4, 2022,
1 alleging that 
the Hopedale Water and Sewer Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on June 
29,
2 and you responded on behalf of the Commission by letter dated July 19. The complaint 
alleges that the topic “Development impact request” included on the notice for the Commission’s 
June 2 meeting was insufficiently specific.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Commission’s response, the request for further review, notices for the Commission’s June 2 and 
July 14 meetings, minutes for the Commission’s June 2 and July 14 meetings, and a letter from 
the Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) to the Commission dated August 31. 
 
Timeliness  
 
As an initial matter, we must address whether the complaint was timely filed with our 
office. The Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law Regulations provide that  
 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The original complaint was filed on behalf of the Complainant by Attorney Donald Keavany. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
[t]he Attorney Ge neral shall decline to investigate complaints filed with the 
Attorney General more than 90 days after the alleged violation of [the Open 
Meeting Law] . . . . However, this time may be extended if . . . the complainant  
demonstrates good cause for the delay in filing with the Attorney General. 
 
940 CMR 29.05(7). Here, the Open Meeting Law complaint was filed with our office for 
further review on the 94th day following the date of the alleged violation.  
 
The complaint was originally filed with the Commission by Attorney Donald 
Keavany from the law firm Christopher, Hays, Wojcik, Mavricos. The matter was then 
transferred to Attorney David Click from the law firm Nealon, Nealon & Click. In the 
request for further review, Attorney Click explains that the file related to the complaint 
was transferred to him just prior to the 90-day deadline and that due to a 
misunderstanding on his part the deadline was missed. We find that, under the specific 
facts in this case, the Complainant has established good cause for the short delay of four 
days in filing the complaint with our office and therefore we review the complaint.  
 
The June 2 meeting notice 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to post notice 48 hours prior to a meeting 
and to include on the notice a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies must list topics for discussion with 
“sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body’s discussion. See OML 2023-24; OML 2014-42.
3 
 
The Commission posted notice for a meeting to be held on June 2. The notice included 
one substantive topic: “Development impact request.” The Commission’s June 2 meeting was 
brief, lasting approximately 17 minutes. The meeting began with updates regarding designs for 
water treatment upgrades. Thereafter, the Commission discussed property owned by the 
Complainant and located at 364 West Street. Specifically, the Commission discussed concerns 
about stormwater discharge at 364 West Street due to development activities at the property and 
the lack of access to a detailed plan for the site. The Commission discussed the need to petition 
the EPA for a determination regarding stormwater discharge at the property, and the Chair read 
aloud a portion of a proposed petition letter to be sent to the EPA. Ultimately, the Commission 
voted to approve and send the petition letter, dated June 2, to the EPA.
4    
 
The Commission posted notice for a meeting to be held on July 14. Included on the 
notice were the topics “West Street update a. EPA Residual Designation 308 letter” and “Open 
meeting law violation complaint.” During the West Street topic, the Commission discussed 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 The minutes for the June 2 meeting refer to a draft “permit” and the vote taken was to “approve and mail the draft 
permit.” Based on the information available to our office, we understand this vote to relate to the Commission’s 
June 2 letter petitioning the EPA. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
documents to be uploaded to the Town’s website; that an appeal was ongoing; that Town 
Meeting had approved taking the West Street property via eminent domain; that a “308 letter” 
had been filed; that there were requests from the railroad that needed to be submitted by July 31; 
and that the Commission had received a copy of an enforcement order the Conservation 
Commission issued to the Complainant. During the Open Meeting Law complaint topic, the 
Commission discussed the complaint at issue here and explained the allegation raised in the 
complaint. The Chair then read the response to the complaint which had been drafted by counsel. 
Finally, the Commission voted to ratify its June 2 vote.  
 
The complaint alleges that the notice topic “Development impact request” was 
insufficient to inform the public of the nature of the anticipated discussion regarding the property 
at 364 West Street. In its response, the Commission “acknowledges that the June 2 notice may 
not have provided enough specific detail about the subject regarding 364 West Street, 
notwithstanding that such matters regarding 364 West Street are on virtually every meeting 
notice . . . .”  
 
We find that the meeting notice, whic
 h did not even identify the property to be discussed, 
was insufficiently specific to inform the public of the anticipated nature of any of the topics 
discussed by the Commission on June 2. With respect to the discussion of 364 West Street 
specifically, although the topic as listed may have been accurate and meaningful to the 
Commission and members of the public who regularly follow the Commission’s business, we 
find that it was insufficient to reasonably advise members of the public unfamiliar with the 
matter of the anticipated nature of the discussion. See OML 2022-4; OML 2020-164; OML 
2013-55; OML 2020-132. 
 
Although the Commission acknowledges the violation to some degree, it asserts that it 
cure
d the violation by adding “the EPA residual designation letter to its July 14, 2022 meeting 
notice, again discuss[ing] the facts and issues that led to the Commission’s previous decision to 
submit a petition to the EPA regarding 364 West Street for potential Clean Water Act violations, 
and vot[ing] to ratify its June 2, 2022 vote on the subject.” Violations of the Open Meeting Law 
may be cured by independent, deliberative action that is not merely a ceremonial acceptance and 
perfunctory ratification of action taken in violation of the Law. See Pearson v. Bd. of Selectmen 
of Longmeadow, 49 Mass. App. Ct. 119, 125 (2000); OML 2020-7; OML 2016-49. Generally, 
that means conducting deliberations anew at a subsequent meeting that is accessible to the public 
and for which proper notice is provided.   
 
Aft
er reviewing the Commission’s July 14 meeting minutes, we find that the 
Commission’s July 14 discussion did not cure the violation. Although the Commissions asserts 
that it again discussed the facts and issues that lead to its June 2 decision to petition the EPA, we 
find that the minutes for the July 14 meeting do not reflect such a discussion. Rather, the minutes 
reflect that the Commission provided updates on matters related to 364 West Street and events 
that resulted from the petition letter, and then merely ratified the June 2 vote.  
 
Although we find the Commission’s subsequent actions insufficient to cure the June 2 
violation, because the Commission provided additional detail regarding the petition letter on the 
notice for its July 14 meeting—namely by identifying the property that was the subject of the 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
letter—and voted to ratify its June 2 vote, we decline to nullify the June 2 vote or order further 
remedial action. 
 
Next, we must determine whether the Commission’s viol ation was, as the Complainant 
urges, intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a 
public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 
29.02. An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate 
ignorance of the law’s requirements or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates 
the Open Meeting Law. Id. We have not previously warned the Commission against the violation 
found here, nor do we find other evidence that would support a finding of an intentional 
violation. Therefore, we decline to find that the violation was intentional.   
 
For the r
easons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by posting an insufficiently specific notice for its June 2 meeting. We order the 
Commission’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that 
future similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Commission 
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Edward Burt, Chair of the Hopedale Water and Sewer Commission ( via email: 
eburt.hd@gmail.com) 
David Click, Esq., Counsel for the Complainant (via e-mail ) 
Hopedale Town Clerk (via e-mail: lpedroli@hopedale-ma.gov) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
