===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 19, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 149 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Gary P. Howayeck 
Assistant Corporation Counsel 
City of Fall River 
ghowayeck@fallriverma.gov  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Howayeck: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on August 22, 2025,
1 alleging that 
the Fall River Zoning Board of Appeals (the “Board”), and specifically its chair Joseph Pereira, 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with 
the Board on July 21, and, after an extension of time granted by our office, you responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated August 22. The complaint alleges that, after receiving an 
Open Meeting Law complaint, 1) the Board’s chair failed to disseminate copies of the complaint 
to Board members; and 2) the Board failed to meet to review the complaint prior to a response 
being sent on its behalf.  
 
Following review, we resolve this complaint by informal action, in accordance with 940 
CMR 29.07(2)(a),
2 and find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged.  
 
Within 14 business days of receiving an Open Meeting Law complaint, the public body 
cha
ir must distribute the complaint to all members of the body; the body must meet to review the 
complaint; and the body must then respond to the complainant in writing, providing our office 
with a copy of the complaint and the response. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3), (5). 
Once a public body has reviewed a complaint during a meeting, its decision to simply refer the 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 “Informal Action. The Attorney General may resolve the investigation with a letter or other appropriate form of 
written communication that explains the violation and clarifies the subject's obligations under M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 
through 25, providing the subject with a reasonable period of time to comply with any outstanding obligations.”  940 
CMR 29.07(2)(a). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
complaint, rather than discuss its substance, is the public body’s prerogative. See OML 2019-40; 
OML 2017-96.3 The Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to substantively discuss 
the merits of the complaint in detail. See OML 2021-128. A public body may review a complaint 
during a meeting and refer the complaint to a designee, such as legal counsel, to respond, or a 
designee may receive the complaint and draft a proposed response in advance for the public body 
to consider and approve during a meeting, but the public body may not remove itself entirely 
from the process. See OML 2020-164.  
 
 Here, the Board received an Open Meeting Law complaint from Erin Leary on June 17. 
The complaint was not disseminated to members of the Board and the Board did not meet to 
review the complaint and respond or refer the complaint to a designee.
4 Instead, on July 2, legal 
counsel for the City responded to the complainant, with a copy to our office, asserting that the 
complaint was untimely. We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law where the chair 
failed to disseminate the complaint to the members of the Board and where the Board failed to 
meet to review the complaint prior to a response being issued.
5  
 
We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and 
caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. 
Because the Board has since met to review the complaint and authorize the response previously 
sent, we do not order further remedial action. We decline to order the remedial action requested 
in the present complaint. Specifically, we decline to void all action taken by the Board during its 
May 15 meeting, the meeting that was the subject of Ms. Leary’s complaint. The present 
complaint raises no allegations regarding the May 15 meeting and therefore provides no basis for 
voiding any action taken during that meeting.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 Ms. Leary’s complaint was resolved by this office in a separate letter. OML Declination 9-19-2025 (Fall River 
Zoning Board of Appeals). 
5 Although the Board generally acknowledges the violations, in its response to the present complaint the Board notes 
that Ms. Leary’s complaint was untimely and that the Division of Open Government declines to review complaints 
that are not timely filed. We remind the Board that a public body is required to respond to a complaint even if it 
believes the complaint is without merit or is untimely. See OML 2023-31, n.2.  

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
cc: Fall River Zoning Board of Appeals (via email:  zoningboardofappeals@fallriverma.org) 
Daniel Aguiar, Fall River Planning Director (via email: daguiar@fallriverma.gov) 
Fall River City Clerk (via email: city clerk@fallriverma.gov) 
Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
