===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 13, 2017 
OML 2017- 145 
Winchester Master Plan Working Group 
c/o Dr. Judith Evans, Superintendent 
40 Samoset Road 
Winchester, MA 01890 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Dr. Evans: 
This office received a complaint from Claire Harden on July 12, alleging that the 
Winchester Master Plan Working Group (the "Working Group") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Winchester School 
Committee on or about June 7, and you responded, on behalf of the Working Group, by letter 
dated June 21.2 In her complaint, Ms. Barden alleges that the Working Group is a public 
body that has not complied with the Open Meeting Law. 
Following our review, we find that the Working Group is not a public body subject to 
the Open Meeting Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Working Group's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. In the fall of 2015, Winchester Town Meeting 
appropriated funding for updating the Town's ten-year Public Schools Master Plan. The town 
manager executed a contract with an architectural firm to prepare the updated Master Plan. 
The contract required the architect to hold three workshops with "key stakeholders" to discuss 
the various stages of the process. A Working Group comprised of town stakeholders was thus 
formed to assist the architect in exploring design options and developing consensus around a 
preferred option for each school facility. Superintendent Dr. Judith Evans, along with School 
Committee members Chris Nixon and Susan Verdicchio, sent an email to various individuals , 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
including chairs of various Town boards, asking for their participation and input in the 
Working Group.3 The architect scheduled the meetings, drafted the agendas, and led the 
meetings, usually with Dr. Evans' assistance. The Working Group met six times.4 The 
architect produced summaries from those meetings to include in the revised Master Plan, 
issued on July 25, 2017, but the Working Group itself did not create any work product. The 
various participants in the Working Group attended the meetings as they were able, though 
there was no fixed group of individuals or quorum set in order to proceed with any given 
meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The complaint alleges that the Working Group is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law. The Open Meeting Law defines a "public body," in relevant part, as "a 
multiple member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or 
legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, 
elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]" G.L. c. 
3OA, § 18. On behalf of the Working Group, Dr. Evans responded that it is not a public body, 
but rather was created solely to advise the architect, and hence falls within the Connelly 
exception. See Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover. 409 Mass. 232, 235 (1991) (where 
an individual public official creates an informal committee to advise that person on a decision 
that he or she has the sole authority to make, that committee is not subject to the Open 
Meeting Law). 
Without reaching the Connelly issue, we conclude that the Working Group is not a 
public body because it is not empowered to act collectively. See OML 2013-56; OML 2015-
83; OML 2012-20; OML 2015-46.5 To determine whether a multiple-member entity is a 
public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, there are three factors we consider: 
1. The entity must be "within" government and not excluded from the definition of 
"public body"; 
2. The entity must be a "body," empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a "public purpose." 
See OML 2010-1. While the Working Group satisfies factors one and three, it does 
not satisfy the second one. The Working Group consists of an indefinite group of 
individuals—both town officials and public body members—who volunteered to attend 
gatherings facilitated by the architect pursuant to its contract with the Town regarding the 
revised Master Plan. While this purpose clearly serves the public, without a fixed 
membership determining a quorum of members needed to vote and/or take collective action, 
3 For example, individuals were recruited from the Educational Facilities Planning and Building Committee; 
Finance Committee, School Committee, Engineering Department, Planning Department. Dr. Evans and the 
Town Manager also participated in the meetings. 
4 The meetings were held on June 16, 2016; September 9, 2016; September 28, 2016; October 28, 2016; May 6, 
2017; and May 22, 2017. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.go/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
the Committee fails the second prong of our test, thus we find that it is not a public body 
subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2015-83; OML 2013-56. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Working Group is not a public body, 
thus it did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by 
this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints 
that may be pending with our office or the School Committee. Please feel free to contact our 
office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Claire Harden 
Winchester School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 