===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 27, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 209 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Cody Haddad 
Halifax Town Administrator  
Cody.Haddad@halifax-ma.org 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Administrator Haddad: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on July 24, 2023,
1 alleging that the 
Halifax Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about June 15, and you responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated June 27. The complaint alleges that the notice for a Board 
meeting held on June 13 included an insufficiently specific topic and that the Board failed to 
timely approve six sets of meeting minutes.   
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a) and find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In 
reaching this determination we reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s 
response, the request for further review, the notice and minutes for the Board’s June 13 meeting, 
a portion of a video recording of the Board’s June 13 meeting,
2 and the Town’s website.   
 
First, the Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall 
post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, 
Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must include the date, time, and 
place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair, and any other individual 
authorized to create the notice, reasonably anticipates, 48 hours in advance of the meeting, will 
be discussed. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2022-206; OML 2020-152.
3 The topics for 
discussion must be listed with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues 
to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise noted. 
2 A video recording of the Board’s June 13 meeting may be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UTM4ovInGIU. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand 
the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35.  
 
The complaint alleges that the notice topic “Road openings” was insufficiently specific. 
During the June 13 meeting, under the topic “Road openings,” the Board discussed and voted to 
approve requests to cut open the road to allow for gas maintenance at three specific addresses—
23 Dartmouth Street, 20 Harvard Street, and 12 Harvard Street. The Board does not assert that 
the specific addresses to be discussed were unknown prior to the meeting; therefore, we find that 
the three addresses should have been listed on the notice. See OML 2022-76 (finding the notice 
topic “Dublin Road Pole Re-Location Hearing” insufficiently specific where the road to be 
discussed was several miles long with numerous utility poles). In its response to the complaint, 
the Board commits to including such detail on its meeting notices in the future. 
 
Next, for the reasons stated in OML 2023-118 (Halifax Board of Selectmen), a copy of 
which is enclosed, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely 
approve five sets of minutes. The minutes for the Board’s April 25 meeting were timely 
approved during the June 13 meeting. As in OML 2023-118, we note that here the Board 
approved all the meeting minutes at issue before the Open Meeting Law complaint was filed. 
Indeed, it appears it was the Board’s own approval of the minutes that called attention to the 
timeliness of its approval and prompted the complainant to file this complaint. In instances 
where all appropriate corrective action has already been taken, we urge complainants not to 
consume resources by filing complaints where the transparency purpose of any such complaint 
has already been addressed by corrective action taken by the public body.  
 
We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the law, and caution that 
similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. We now 
consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does 
not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel 
free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Halifax Board of Selectmen (via email: Naja.Nessralla@halifax-ma.org)  
Halifax Town Clerk (via email: susan.lawless@halifax-ma.org)  
Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
Encl. 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 24, 2023 
 
OML 2023 – 118 
 
Cody Haddad 
Town Administrator 
499 Plymouth Street 
Halifax, MA 02338 
 
By e-mail only: cody.haddad@halifax-ma.org 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Haddad: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on June 24, 2023, alleging that the 
Halifax Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about May 24, 2023, and you 
responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated June 13, 2023.
1  The 
complaint alleges that the Board failed to accept minutes for meetings held between January and 
May in a timely manner. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made, and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The meeting minutes must be reviewed 
and approved in a timely manner.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  “Timely manner” means “within the 
next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can 
show good cause for further delay.”  See 940 CMR 29.11; OML 2018-48.
 2  Whenever possible, 
we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2018-67; 
OML 2017-133. 
 
The Board held a meeting on May 23, at which time it approved minutes of meetings 
held on January 10, 24, and 30; February 28; March 14; and May 8.  The Board does not dispute 
 
1 Unless otherwise noted, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2023. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website,  
www. mass,gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 5===
2 
 
that the minutes of the January, February, and March meetings were not approved within the 
later of its next three meetings or 30 days, though explains that it has worked diligently to create 
and approve a backlog of meeting minutes following a period of extraordinary turmoil, including 
numerous Board member and staff resignations.  The Board also explained its newly 
implemented process for ensuring meeting minutes are tracked and approved in a timely manner, 
and committed all of its members as well as its Town Administrator to attend Open Meeting Law 
training. 
 
Here, the Board approved all the meeting minutes at issue before the instant Open 
Meeting Law complaint was filed.  Indeed, it appears it was the Board’s own approval of the 
minutes that called attention to the timeliness of its approval and prompted the complainant to 
file this complaint; the complainant had not requested or otherwise expressed concern with the 
minutes prior to their approval.  In instances where all appropriate corrective action has already 
been taken, we urge complainants not to consume resources by filing complaints where the 
transparency purpose of any such complaint has already been addressed by corrective action 
taken by the public body.  Pursuing such complaints takes up scarce state and local resources 
without advancing the Open Meeting Law’s goal of improved governmental transparency.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
   
   
Carrie Benedon  
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc:
 Patrick Higgins – By email only:  
 Halifax Board of Selectmen – By email only: Naja.Nessralla@halifax-ma.org 
 Halifax Town Clerk – By email only: susan.lawless@halifax -ma.org 
  
 
 
 
 
   
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
