===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
January 24, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 12 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Benjamin M. Coyle, Esq. 
Bacon Wilson, P.C. 
33 State Street  
Springfield, MA 01103 
 
bcoyle@baconwilson.com 
    
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Coyle:  
 
On December 29, 2023, this office received a complaint from Roxanne Gunther, alleging 
that the Monson Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on October 6.
1  You responded on behalf 
of the Board by letter dated October 25.  The complainant alleges that the Board discussed Open 
Meeting Law complaints without including them on a meeting notice.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint, the response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.     
 
FACTS 
  
We find the facts as follows.  On October 5, the complainant delivered four Open 
Meeting Law complaints by hand to the Board.  The Board held an executive session that same 
day at 11:30 a.m.  While the complainant was in the meeting room (presumably where the Board 
was to meet), the Town Administrator entered the room with the complaints, which the 
complainant had just filed with the Board.  Without further elaboration, the complainant states 
that she “believe[s]” that the complaints were discussed during the Board’s executive session, 
held the same day they were filed with the Board.  The Board denies that it discussed the 
complaints at its October 5 meeting.  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2023. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
DISCUSSION 
  
Within 14 business days after receiving a complaint, a public body must meet to review 
the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the complainant a 
response and a description of any remedial action taken.  940 CMR 29.05(5).  A public body 
must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, 
Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Notices must include “a listing of topics that 
the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must 
have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  If an Open Meeting Law complaint is to be discussed at a 
public body’s meeting, it should be included in the meeting notice.  See OML 2022-220 
(meeting notice should generally identify the person who filed the Open Meeting Law complaint 
or include other identifying information about the complaint); OML 2017-63; OML 2013-82.2     
 
The complainant alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it discussed 
complaints that had just been filed with the Board that day, without posting notice that the 
complaints would be discussed.  Her allegation is founded on her observation that the Town 
Administrator entered the meeting room with the complaints and her “belief” that the Board must 
have discussed them in executive session.  The Board denies that the complaints were discussed 
during the October 5 meeting.  Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public 
body’s account of the facts.  See OML 2023-121; OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141; see also 
LaPointe v. License Board of Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) (“There is every presumption in 
favor of the honesty and sufficiency of the motives actuating public officers in actions ostensibly 
taken for the general welfare.”)  The complainant’s observation of the Town Administrator 
carrying the complaints into the meeting room is insufficient to overcome the Board’s denial that 
the complaints were discussed.   
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the ways alleged.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have 
any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
  
 Mat
thew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
  
cc: Roxanne Gunther (via e-mail: )  
 Monson Town Administrator (via e -mail:  jwolowicz@monson-ma.gov) 
 Monson Town Clerk (via email:  townclerk@monson-ma.gov) 
  
  
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
 
