===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
March 7, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 45 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Christina Predella 
Vice Chair, Brookfield Board of Health 
cpredella@brookfieldma.us  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Vice Chair Predella: 
 
This office received two complaints, one each from Christopher Kelleher, a member of 
the Brookfield Board of Health (the “Board”), and one from Maureen Lepak, the Chair of the 
Board. Mr. Kelleher filed his complaint with the Board on June 14, 2023,
1 and Ms. Lepak 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated July 3. Thereafter, Mr. Kelleher filed his 
complaint with our office on August 28. Ms. Lepak filed her complaint with the Board on or 
about September 13, and you responded on behalf of the Board by email on October 3. 
Thereafter, Ms. Lepak filed her complaint with our office on November 7.  
 
We understand Mr. Kelleher’s complaint to allege that the minutes of the Board’s May 
24 meeting, which were approved at the Board’s May 31 meeting, are insufficient where they 
fail to accurately record the discussions that arose concerning an emergency beaver permit and 
emails exchanged between Ms. Lepak and Mr. Kelleher.
2 Ms. Lepak’s complaint alleges that Mr. 
Kelleher violated the Open Meeting Law by improperly deliberating via email when submitting 
his complaint to this office for further review.
3 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The complaint as written only references the May 31 meeting and alleges that a topic was discussed that was not 
included on the meeting notice and that the meeting minutes are inaccurate. In the request for further review, Mr. 
Kelleher clarified that his concerns relate to the sufficiency of the minutes for the Board’s May 24 meeting which 
were approved during the Board’s May 31 meeting.  
3 To the extent the complainants raise additional allegations outside of their  formal Open Meeting Law complaints, 
we decline to review such allegations. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(1); OML 2022-179, n. 2 (declining 
to review allegations raised in the request for further review because they were not raised in the original complaint 
filed with the public body). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by creating 
inaccurate and insufficient meeting minutes. We find that Mr. Kelleher did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by copying fellow Board members when submitting his Open Meeting Law 
complaint to our office for further review. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open 
Meeting Law complaints, the Board’s responses, and the requests for further review. We also 
reviewed the minutes for the Board’s May 24 meeting and an audio recording of the meeting.
4 
Finally, we reviewed the August 28 email Mr. Kelleher sent to our office requesting further 
review of his complaint, on which he copied the full Board. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Board is a three-member public body; therefore, 
two members constitute a quorum. The Board held a meeting on May 24. One of the topics 
included on the notice for the meeting was “PHEP Emergency Preparedness Planning (EDS 
Plan) Review and Adoption.” Under this topic, the Board discussed a preparedness plan and the 
fact that the draft plan included the titles “chair” and “vice chair” for Ms. Lepak and Board 
member Christina Predella,
5 respectively, prior to the Board having determined who would hold 
those positions. The discussion began with Ms. Lepak asking Mr. Kelleher if they could agree on 
the plan that evening if the titles were removed. Mr. Kelleher explained that his concern was that 
the decision of who to list as chair and vice chair had been made in advance. There was then an 
exchange regarding the inclusion of the titles in the plan and the authority of Board members. 
Mr. Kelleher explained that his concern was not with the titles per se but rather related to his 
voice being heard and his vote counting where it appeared that the decision regarding the titles 
had been made in advance.  
 
As this discussion seemed to be winding down, Ms. Lepak asked Mr. Kelleher not to 
send emails accusing others of breaking the law. Thereafter, an exchange began, primarily 
between Ms. Lepak and Mr. Kelleher, regarding emails exchanged between the two of them—
Ms. Lepak as Chair of the Board and Mr. Kelleher as Chair of the Conservation Commission—
regarding the Board’s issuance of an emergency beaver permit and related issues. Ms. Lepak and 
Mr. Kelleher argued about who was correct regarding the law and process and what each had 
intended by their emails. The conversation lasted for approximately ten minutes and became 
heated at times with members speaking over each other and yelling. At one point Ms. Predella 
made a motion to end the discussion and hold a new discussion once the Conservation 
Commission had time to research issues related to the beaver permit. The motion was seconded 
and a vote called; however, it is hard to discern from the recording what happened thereafter. 
Finally, as the meeting began to further devolve, Ms. Predella stated that she had made a motion 
to adjourn the meeting. Eventually, the meeting was adjourned.  
 
The Board approved the minutes of the May 24 meeting during its May 31 meeting. 
Thereafter, on June 14, Mr. Kelleher filed his Open Meeting Law complaint at issue here. On 
August 28, Mr. Kelleher sent our office an email requesting further review of his complaint. The 
email was copied to the full Board and included an explanation of his complaint’s allegations, 
 
4 A copy of the audio recording may be found at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DQIXm2Dr_Nc . 
5 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
explained why he was not satisfied with the Board’s response, and raised concerns about the 
Board’s process in responding to the complaint. Thereafter, Ms. Lepak filed her Open Meeting 
Law complaint alleging that Mr. Kelleher’s August 28 email to our office requesting further 
review of his complaint constituted improper deliberation.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law by Creating Inaccurate and Insufficient 
Minutes for Its May 24 Meeting.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. 
See OML 2013-64.
6 By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough 
detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the 
minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106. Meeting minutes 
must include a substantive summary of the discussion on each topic. See OML 2023-5; OML 
2021-128 (explaining that meeting minutes must accurately capture the discussion that occurred 
and that it is improper to add content that was not actually discussed or conveyed during the 
meeting); OML 2020-57; OML 2018-8; OML 2016-155.  
 
We understand Mr. Kelleher’s complaint to allege that the minutes of the Board’s May 
24 meeting are insufficient and inaccurate where they 1) state that Mr. Kelleher “did not accept” 
Ms. Lepak’s explanation for why the emergency preparedness plan included titles for Ms. Lepak 
and Ms. Predella; 2) fail to record the discussion related to the email exchange between Ms. 
Lepak and Mr. Kelleher regarding the beaver permit and related issues; and 3) fail to record 
motions made by Ms. Predella. After review of the audio recording of the May 24 meeting, we 
agree that the minutes are insufficient and inaccurate. The minutes inaccurately record the 
discussion regarding the emergency preparedness plan and fail entirely to record the ten-minute 
discussion that occurred regarding Ms. Lepak’s and Mr. Kelleher’s emails and the beaver permit. 
As such, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by creating inaccurate and 
insufficient meeting minutes. We decline to find that Ms. Lepak individually violated the Open 
Meeting Law where it is the public body’s obligation to create and maintain accurate minutes, 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a), and specifically here where the Board voted to approve the minutes.  
 
II. Mr. Kelleher Did Not Improperly Deliberate by Copying the Full Board When He 
Filed His Open Meeting Law Complaint with the Division of Open Government for 
Further Review. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be noticed and open to 
the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is 
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. The law defines “deliberation,” in relevant part, as “an 
oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id. For 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public 
body. Id. 
 
Although the definition of “deliberation” is quite broad, we decline to find a violation 
here. Mr. Kelleher had chosen to exercise his right to file an Open Meeting Law complaint. After 
filing his complaint with the Board and receiving a response, Mr. Kelleher chose to further 
exercise his right by filing his complaint with our office for further review. It is appropriate for a 
complainant to copy the public body that is the subject of the complaint when filing the 
complaint with the Attorney General’s Office. Additionally, we note that the substance of Mr. 
Kelleher’s August 28 email filing his complaint with our office was reasonably limited to his 
Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, and his reasons for requesting further 
review, and the communication was directed to our office.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
creating inaccurate and insufficient minutes for its meeting held on May 24. We order the 
Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that similar 
future violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the law. Additionally, we 
order the Board, within 30 days of the date of this determination, to amend the minutes of its 
May 24 meeting to ensure compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Maureen Lepak, Chair, Brookfield Board of Health  
(via email: mlepak@brookfieldma.us) 
 Christopher Kelleher, Member, Brookfield Board of Health  
(via email: ckelleher@brookfieldma.us) 
 Michael Seery, Brookfield Town Clerk (via email: mseery@brookfieldma.us) 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 