===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 19, 2018 
OML 2018-81 
Joseph Emerson, Esq. 
33 Whitney Avenue 
Westwood, MA 02090 
RE; Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Emerson; 
This office received a complaint from Nancy Grossman on May 2, alleging that the 
Sandwich School Committee Pool Subcommittee (the "Subcommittee") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the 
Subcommittee on or about March 28, and School Committee Chair Stephanie Hall responded 
to the complaint, on behalf of the Subcommittee, in a letter dated April 11. In her complaint, 
Ms. Crossman alleges that the Subcommittee improperly deliberated outside of public view 
during its March 26 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law 
in the manner alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Subcommittee's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the Subcommittee's March 26 and April 4 meeting notices 
and minutes, as well as a text message sent from the complainant to Subcommittee member 
Jim Dever on March 26. Finally, we spoke by telephone with the complainant on May 3, and 
with the two Subcommittee members, Ms. Hall and Mr. Dever, on May 15. 
We find the facts as follows. The Subcommittee consists of two members of the 
School Committee (the "Committee"): Committee Chair Stephanie Hall and Committee 
Vice-Chair Jim Dever. In the spring of 2018, the Subcommittee was charged with negotiating 
a renewal contract with a vendor for the pool located at the high school that provides swim 
programs and lessons. During its noticed March 26 open meeting, a representative for the 
vendor was present for negotiation discussions with the Subcommittee. At issue was whether 
the percentage of the gross revenue paid by the vendor to the School District, currently at 
13%, would increase to 14 or 15%. At some point during this discussion, Mr. Dever asked 
1 All dates refer to the year 2018. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
Ms. Hall and the School Superintendent, who was also in attendance, to step out of the room. 
The three individuals met in the hallway just outside of the meeting room for approximately 
two minutes. During this time, Mr. Dever informed them that he had received a text message 
earlier in the day from the complainant regarding the contract and the lack of financial 
information from the vendor. The complainant had shared her concerns about the contract 
with Mr. Dever because she was unsure whether she would be able to attend the meeting later 
that day. 
Mr. Dever felt obligated to share this message with Ms. Hall because the complainant 
had been a longtime advocate of the pool (and a former member of the School Committee), 
but believed it was inappropriate to do so in front of everyone at the meeting. Mr. Dever 
explained that his intention was to avoid any further conflict between the complainant and the 
vendor. Therefore, Mr. Dever shared the text message with Ms. Hall in the hallway, stressed 
a couple of points the complainant had raised about the vendor's financial information and 
income reserved for capital improvements, to which Ms. Hall replied, "thank you," and 
returned to the room without further discussion. This discussion was summarized in its 
meeting minutes. 
The Subcommittee met on April 4 to discuss this complaint. The Subcommittee 
decided that, because it had already decided on the 14% gross revenue amount prior to the 
hallway discussion, the Subcommittee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. The 
Subcommittee also voted to disband at this meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School 
Commission of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive 
session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. 
c. BOA, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include 
the distribution of other procedural meeting (sic) or the distribution of reports or documents 
that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. 
For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority of the members 
of the public body. Id 
The complaint alleges that the Subcommittee improperly met in the hallway during its 
March 26 meeting to discuss a text that the complainant had sent to Mr. Dever about the 
renewal of a vendor contract just hours before the meeting. The Subcommittee concedes that 
the conversation occurred, but that no substantive discussion had taken place.2 Had Mr. 
2 There is a discrepancy between the complainant's account and the Subcommittee's account of whether the 14% 
gross revenue amount was decided on before or after this hallway discussion. The Subcommittee contends that 
it had already decided upon 14% before the discussion occurred and therefore there was nothing left to discuss 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Dever simply forwarded the text message to Ms. Hall without further comment for the 
purpose of discussing it at the meeting, it would not have violated the Open Meeting Law, 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 18 ("deliberation" does not include "the distribution of...documents that 
may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed"). Mr. 
Dever's summary of the text message and related comments, however, does violate the law 
because it constitutes a communication between the two Subcommittee members that 
occurred outside of the public's view. Id; OML 2015-15.3 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Subcommittee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by deliberating privately during its March 26 meeting. Because the 
Subcommittee no longer exists, we order the immediate and future compliance with the law's 
requirements to any public bodies established by the Committee in the future, and we caution 
that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
Additionally, we order the Subcommittee members to review the Attorney General's Open 
Meeting Law Training Video #1 (Introduction and Definitions)4 and certify in writing to this 
office, within thirty (30) days of the date of this letter, that its members have reviewed this 
determination and the video. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Subcommittee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Nancy Crossman 
Sandwich School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
on the topic in the hallway. The complainant contends that the Subcommittee returned to the meeting room and 
announced that they agreed on 14%. Either way, the Subcommittee cannot engage in a private discussion 
concerning any business within its jurisdiction. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 Available at https://www.mass.gov/service-details/open-meeting-law-training-videos. 
3 