===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 28, 2016 
OML 2016-81 
James Gormley, Chair 
Norwood School Committee 
275 Prospect Street 
P.O. Box 67 
Norwood, MA 02062 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Dear Chair Gormley: 
This office received a complaint from Roger Ferris, dated March 28, alleging that the 
Norwood School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on March 7, and the Committee 
responded by two letters dated March 15 and 23. In his complaint, Mr. Ferris alleges that the 
Committee improperly deliberated while on recess from a meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's 
responses, and the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice 
of the Committee's February 26 meeting, along with the open and executive session minutes 
from this same meeting. We reviewed a video recording of the Committee's February 24 
meeting, which was provided to us by the Committee. Finally, we spoke with Committee chair 
James Gormley by telephone on May 26.2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a five-member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum. The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
February 24. The notice listed an anticipated topic described as "School Committee Addenda," 
with no further description given. The Committee's practice is to use this time for Committee 
members to raise topics that were not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
meeting. The notice also listed an anticipated executive session, but it did not indicate what O 
would be discussed during it. 
The Committee held its February 24 meeting as planned. During the portion of the 
meeting reserved for "School Committee Addenda," Committee member Patrick McDonough 
stated that, at a recent meeting with the Superintendent of Schools, he learned that nurses in the 
school district did not want to administer Narcan to students. The Superintendent, who was 
present at the meeting, disagreed with this recollection of the meeting, denying that he had made 
those statements. When the conversation became heated, Mr. McDonough made a motion to 
discuss the matter further in executive session at the next Committee meeting.4 This motion was 
not seconded. When tensions did not abate. Committee member Courtney Rau-Rogers made a 
motion for a brief recess and the Committee voted unanimously in favor. 
During the recess, while a quorum of the Committee was still in the room, the members 
discussed whether or not to enter executive session upon reconvening the meeting.5 This 
discussion consisted largely of whether the disagreement between the Superintendent and Mr. 
McDonough was appropriate for executive session, as well as how such disagreements should be 
handled generally. After several minutes, the Committee reconvened the meeting. At that time, 
Committee member John Badger made a motion to enter executive session. The Committee 
voted unanimously in favor. The chair stated that the Committee would resume in open session 
following the executive session for the sole purpose of adjourning the meeting, but the chair did 
not state the purpose for the executive session. 
The minutes of the February 24 executive session have not been released, and we 
therefore do not recount their contents. Flowever, we note that this discussion generally 
concerned the disagreement between Mr. McDonough and Superintendent regarding a 
conversation during an earlier meeting. The conversation also concerned ways to avoid 
contentious meetings in the future. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting "at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays" and that every 
notice must include "the date, time and place of such meeting and listings of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A public body 
must list anticipated discussion topics on a meeting notice with sufficient specificity such that a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body's discussion. 940 CMR 29.03(1 )(b); OML 2016-60. While meetings of public 
bodies typically need to be held in public view, a public body may enter into a closed executive 
session for any of ten executive session purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). To convene in executive 
session, a public body must identify the specific executive session purpose it intends to invoke to 
justify the executive session, and provide as much detail as possible to infonn the public of the 
nature of the executive session discussion without compromising the confidentiality of the 
3 It is the Committee's practice to include an "Executive Session" line on its meeting notices, leaving it blank if the 
chair does not anticipate an executive session. This may be confusing to members of the public, who may believe 
that the Committee intends to hold a discussion outside of public view. 
4 It was stated that the purpose of the executive session would be "a personnel issue." 
5 We note that the discussion during the recess was not part of the recording provided to our office. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
executive session. See OML 2014-43; OML 2012-76; OML 2011-9. Before entering executive 
session, the chair must also state the purpose for the executive session in the same level of detail. 
G.L. c. 3OA, §21(b)(3). 
The Open Meeting Law is designed to eliminate "much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21, The law defines a "meeting" as "a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A 
"deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id, For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority 
of the members of the public body. Id. 
Here, the complaint alleges that a quorum of the Committee deliberated while on recess 
from the February 24 meeting. Indeed, a quorum was present in the meeting room during the 
recess and the members present discussed whether a certain discussion was appropriate for 
executive session. Discussions regarding procedural or administrative matters may relate to 
public business within a body's jurisdiction, including whether the body should consider or take 
action on specific topics during a meeting. See OML 2013-27; OML 2011-38. In other words, 
discussion of a public body's operation is public business within the body's jurisdiction. The 
discussion here concerned a matter within the Committee's jurisdiction and it therefore should 
have occurred during an open session. See OML 2016-63. We find that holding this discussion 
during a recess violated the Open Meeting Law. We note that, in response to the present Open 
Meeting Law complaint, all five Committee members attended an Open Meeting Law training 
held on June I.6 We commend the Committee for taking this initiative. 
While not directly alleged in the complaint, we note that Committee failed to comply 
with the Open Meeting Law in other respects. The discussion that took place during the February 
24 executive session did not fit within any of the ten statutory purposes for executive session.7 
Accordingly, this discussion, even if sensitive or otherwise embarrassing for the Committee 
members, should have taken place in open session. See OML 2016-21. We find that this 
violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2015-10. To convene in executive session, a public 
body must identify the specific executive session purpose it intends to invoke to justify the 
executive session, and provide as much detail as possible to inform the public of the nature of the 
executive session discussion without compromising the confidentiality of the executive session. 
See OML 2014-43; OML 2012-76; OML 2011-9. Here, the chair did not make the required 
6 This training was conducted by a representative from the Massachusetts Association of School Committees, 
7 Based on conversation with the Committee chair, it seems that the Committee may have considered this to be an 
executive session "[t]o discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional 
competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a 
public officer, employee, staff member or individual," G.L, c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). Our review of the 
executive session minutes shows that the discussion was more properly classified as the resolution of an 
interpersonal dispute. The discussion did not address any charges an individual, nor did it concern reputation, 
physical condition, or any of the other considerations encompassed by Purpose 1, It concerned a disagreement 
between two individuals regarding statements that had been made at an earlier meeting. As such, this did not fall 
within the scope of Purpose 1 and should therefore have taken place in open session. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
statement prior to entering executive session on February 24. We take this opportunity to remind 
the Committee of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We order the Committee's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and 
we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
Because the Committee members attended the June 1 Open Meeting Law training, we order no 
additional relief. Because the February 24 executive session was not held for a proper purpose, 
we order the release to the public of those executive session minutes. Lhe Committee may not 
redact or withhold these minutes or any portion thereof based on privilege or any exemption 
under the Public Records Law. See G.L c. 30A, § 22(f) ("The minutes of any executive 
session... may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety ... as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer; provided, 
however, that the executive session was held in compliance with section 21") (emphasis added)); 
OML 2014-42; OML 2014-17. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Roger Ferns 
4 