===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
June 27, 2025  
 
       OML 2025 – 85 
 
Megan B. Bayer, Esq. 
City Solicitor 
Cambridge Public Schools 
135 Berkshire Street 
Cambridge, MA 02141 
 
By email only: mbayer@cambridgema.gov 
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Bayer: 
 
This office received a complaint from Anna Shin on December 18, 2024, alleging that the 
Graham & Parks School Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about October 18, 2024, 
and you responded, on behalf of the Council, by letter dated November 8, 2024.
1  The complaint 
alleges that (1) notice of a meeting the Council held on September 19 (“the September 19 
Meeting”) was not sufficiently specific; and (2) the Council voted by secret ballot during the 
September 19 Meeting.  
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law when it posted an insufficiently 
specific notice of its September 19 Meeting.  We find that the Council did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law in the other ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the Council’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review.  In addition, we reviewed the notice, agenda and minutes of the 
September 19 Meeting.  Finally, we communicated with you via email. 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  On September 12, the Council posted notice of the 
September 19 Meeting.  The “purpose” of the meeting was listed as follows: 
 
 
1 Unless otherwise stated, all dates in this letter refer to 2024. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Welcome to School Council, Organizing for Collaborative Work, Planning for 2024-2025 
School Council 
  
Also on September 12, the Council posted an agenda for the September 19 Meeting, 
separate from the notice.  The agenda included a more detailed list of topics, including the roles 
of parent representatives, co-chairs and other members of the Council and approximate times 
when each topic would be reached.  Both the notice and agenda were posted online, with a link 
to the agenda listed directly below the link to the notice.2     
 
 The September 19 Meeting took place as scheduled.  Two members expressed interest in 
the position of co-chair.  There followed a vote to appoint Christian Henry and Arjun Jaikumar
3 
as “tri-chairs” with Kathleen Smith.  Initially, the Council proceeded to vote by paper ballot.  
However, before those votes were counted, the complainant reminded the Council that secret 
votes are prohibited by the Open Meeting Law.  As a result, the paper ballots were not counted.  
Instead, the vote was taken by roll call.  The motion to appoint Christian Henry and Arjun 
Jaikumar as tri-chairs carried. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I.  The Council violate d the  Open Meeting Law when it posted an 
insufficiently specific notice of the September 19 Meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy 
surr
ounding deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. 
School Board of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice 
of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and 
legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Notices must include “a listing of topics that the 
chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must 
have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's 
discussion.  See OML 2023-3; OML 2019-134; OML 2015- 35.4  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an 
informed decision whether to attend the meeting to observe the discussion regarding a topic of 
interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22.  Boilerplate notice topics, such as 
“New Business,” “Old Business,” or “Update,” do not satisfy the requirement of specificity.  See 
OML 2025-3; OML 2021-121; OML 2019-92.   
 
 
2 https://secure1.cpsd.us/school_council/meeting_listing.php?schoolID=25. 
3 Arjun Jaikumar is an employee of the Attorney General’s Office. The complaint contains no allegations that are 
specific to the actions of Mr. Jaikumar, and Mr. Jaikumar played no role in this office’s consideration of the 
complaint. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 According to the posted notice, the purpose of the September 19 Meeting w as “Wel come 
to School Council, Organizing for Collaborative Work, Planning for 2024-2025 School 
Council.”  The separately posted agenda included further detail about meeting topics.  Under 
limited circumstances, we have found it permissible to include some of the information required 
by the Open Meeting Law in a separate agenda.  See, e.g., OML 2018-53 (notice included link to 
agenda that listed topics); OML 2013-46 (agenda physically attached to notice).  Here, however, 
the agenda with list of topics was neither physically attached to the notice nor available through a 
link within the notice.  A member of the public would not necessarily find the agenda when 
searching for the notice.  For example, the top result for a Google search “Graham Parks notice 
meeting” is a PDF of a meeting notice, which lists the purpose of the meeting but no topics.  An 
interested member of the public accessing the notice in this manner would have no indication 
that there is a separate agenda that includes a more detailed list of topics.  Inclusion of the 
meeting’s “purpose” on the notice further confuses matters by appearing to be a list of topics, 
albeit an inadequate one.  Because the notice of the September 19 Meeting did not include a list 
of topics that the chair reasonably anticipated would be discussed at the meeting, we find that the 
Council violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
 Finally, although not raised in the complaint, we note our concern with language in the 
notic
e suggesting that members of the public must register in advance to attend the meeting.  The 
notice states that “[a]ttendees may sign up to attend the meeting by visiting the CPS School 
Council Meeting System at https://secure1.cpsd.us/school_council.”  At the core of the Open 
Meeting Law is the requirement that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the 
public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public 
body shall be open to the public”).  For a meeting to be truly open to the public, the meeting 
venue must be accessible to the public for the duration of the meeting, and the public body may 
not require members of the public to register or sign up to attend the meeting in advance. See 
OML 2021-127; OML 2021-10; OML 2020-163.  To the extent that this language is meant to 
simply provide a link to access the meeting remotely, the wording should more clearly reflect 
that going forward. 
 
II. The Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it voted for tri -
chairs. 
 
The Open Meeting Law explicitly prohibits votes taken by secret ballot.  See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(b); OML 2024-38; OML 2016-121; OML 2015-145.  Had the complainant not spoken up 
during the initial paper ballot, the tri-chairs would have been elected by secret ballot, a clear 
violation of the Open Meeting Law.  However, when the complainant drew the Council’s 
attention to the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, the paper ballots were not tallied and the 
vote was conducted anew by roll call.  Where a public body halts a vote by secret ballot before it 
is completed, it stops short of violating the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2016-52.  Therefore, 
we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law in its vote for tri-chairs at the 
September 19 Meeting.  We commend the complainant for bringing the misstep to the Council’s 
attention, thereby preventing a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it posted notice that was not sufficiently specific.  We order immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
       Sincerely, 
 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:   Anna Shin (via email: ) 
Maureen A. MacFarlane, Special Assistant City Solicitor (via email: 
mmacfarlane@cpsd.us) 
 Cambridge City Clerk (via email: cityclerk@cambridgema.gov) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
