===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
wvvw.mass.gov/ago 
October 4, 2017 
OML 2017-156 
John Hickey 
Chair, Westwood Board of Selectmen 
Westwood Town Hall 
580 High Street 
Westwood, MA 02090 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Hickey: 
This office received a complaint from Deborah Conant on April 19, alleging that the 
Westwood Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about March 14, and 
Nancy Hyde responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated March 20. In her complaint, 
Ms. Conant alleges that the Board failed to list an anticipated topic on its February 13 meeting 
notice and failed to include sufficient detail on that notice. Ms. Conant also alleges that the 
Board deliberated privately outside of a noticed meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include sufficient detail on its meeting notice. We find no violation with respect to 
the other allegations. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed the notice and minutes of the Board's February 13 meeting. 
Finally, we spoke with the Town Administrator and with former Board Chair Nancy Hyde 
several times in August and September. 
We find the facts as follows. The Town's official notice posting location is the Town 
website's calendar. The calendar lists the date, time and location of the meeting, as well as 
the anticipated topics, along with a link to the original date-stamped copy of the notice filed 
with the Town Clerk. The Board generally posts its notices on the Wednesdays prior to its 
regular Monday meetings. Two days later, on Friday, the Board adds a hyperlinked version 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
of the notice (it calls an "annotated agenda") which includes a more detailed summary of each 
topic. 
The Board convened a meeting on Monday, February 13 to discuss, in part, whether to 
seek a zoning freeze for municipally-owned property in advance of Town Meeting's 
consideration of two petition articles that proposed amendments to the Flexible Multiple Use 
Overlay District (FMUOD) section of the Westwood zoning bylaw. The proposed 
amendments would affect a redevelopment project in Islington Center, which had been an 
ongoing discussion during Board meetings. At the time that the original notice was posted, 
Chair Hyde expected to specifically discuss the proposed zoning freeze. The original notice 
for the meeting, posted on Wednesday, February 8, listed this topic as "8:00pm - Islington 
Center Redevelopment." In a revised version of the notice, posted on Friday, February 10, the 
Board replaced that topic with "FMUOD Petition Articles."2 This version of the notice 
included a hyperlink to a summary of the topic, described as follows: 
To have the Board of Selectmen consider whether or not to pursue a Zoning Freeze for 
municipally-owned parcels in Islington Center in advance of Town Meeting 
consideration of two Petition Articles which propose amendments to the Flexible 
Multiple Use Overlay District (FMUOD) section of the Westwood Zoning Bylaw. 
During the meeting, the Board discussed and approved a vote to obtain the proposed 
zoning freeze. Staff had provided the Board with a packet of information in advance of the 
meeting regarding the proposal. The Board did not discuss the topic outside of a meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice of a meeting at least 48 
hours in advance of a meeting that includes "the date, time and place of such meeting and a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b). For local public bodies, the law requires that the municipal clerk post notice of 
meetings in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on the municipal 
building in which the clerk's office is located. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c). If such notice is not 
conspicuously visible to the public during hours when the clerk's office is closed, such notice 
shall also be made available through one of the alternative methods approved by the Attorney 
General under 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b), such as a website. Topics should be listed in a meeting 
notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed 
at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently 
specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand what the 
nature of the public body's discussion will be. See OML 2016-38; OML 2015-74.3 
2 We remind the Board that, if a notice is revised within the 48-hour period before the meeting, the date and time 
that it is revised must be conspicuously recorded thereon or therewith. See 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The complaint concerns a topic discussed during the Board's February 13 meeting 
regarding a zoning freeze for municipally-owned property located at Islington Center. The 
complaint alleges that the Board deliberated about the topic outside of a meeting. The Board 
asserts that members prepared individually for the upcoming meeting by reviewing a packet 
of materials distributed for that purpose and that no deliberation occurred outside of a 
meeting. We credit the Board's assertion and, absent any evidence to the contrary, find that 
the Board did not deliberate outside of a meeting regarding this topic. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
The complaint further alleges that the Board failed to indicate that it planned to 
discuss a zoning freeze and that the topic listed, "FMUOD Petition Articles," was insufficient. 
We agree with both points. The topic listed on the original notice available to the public at 
least 48 hours before the meeting, "Islington Center Redevelopment," provided no indication 
to the public that the discussion would focus on whether to seek a zoning freeze for 
municipally-owned property at Islington Center in advance of Town Meeting's consideration 
of two petition articles concerning the zoning bylaw. Because Chair Hyde anticipated 
specifically discussing the zoning freeze, this topic was insufficiently detailed. 
The Board then posted an "annotated agenda" on Friday—within the 48 hours before 
the meeting—which replaced the original topic with "FMUOD Petition Articles." On its face, 
this topic also lacked sufficient detail about the proposed zoning freeze and included an 
acronym, "FMUOD," that is not widely understood to members of the public. See OML 
2016-5 (finding that "PILOT" is not a widely understood acronym); cf. OML 2015-172 
(concluding that "FAA" is a widely understood acronym). This updated notice included a 
hyperlink to a more detailed summary about the topic that adequately described the purpose 
for the discussion and spelled out the acronym. The topic on the notice, read together with the 
summary, provided sufficient detail to the public. See OML 2017-148; OML 2017-116; 
OML 2016-128. Because this topic was not posted at least 48 hours before the meeting, 
however, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We commend the Board's 
efforts to provide the public with additional detail on its annotated agenda within the 48 hours 
before the meeting. However, all anticipated topics must be posted in sufficient detail on the 
notice at least 48 hours before the meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Adding hyperlinks within the 48 hours before the meeting to more 
detailed summaries on topics which, on their face, lack enough detail cannot render a topic 
sufficiently detailed. That information must be available to the public at least 48 hours before 
the meeting.4 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to include sufficient detail on its February 13 meeting notice. We order the Board's 
immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar 
future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
4 We further note our difficulty in navigating the Town website to locate the notice, identifying several webpages 
with Board notices. We encourage the Board to ensure that the Town website has one easily-accessible location 
for posting its meeting notices. See OML 2013-53. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Deborah Conant 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 