===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 28, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 174 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Ronald E. Aponte 
Town Administrator, Town of Brookfield 
townadministrator@brookfieldma.us 
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Town Administrator Aponte: 
 
This office received a complaint from Christopher Kelleher on September 18, 2025, 
alleging that the Brookfield Selectboard (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or around June 9 and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated June 17.  The complaint alleges that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to announce that its meetings held on May 20, May 
22, May 29, June 3, and June 5 were being recorded. 
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in a
 ccordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, the complainant’s 
request for further review of the complaint, and video recordings of the Board’s meetings.
2  We 
find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to announce that the meetings held 
on May 20, May 22, May 29, June 3, and June 5 were being recorded.   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “[a]fter notifying the chair of the public body, any 
person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a public body, or 
may transmit the meeting through any medium, subject to reasonable requirements of the chair 
as to the number, placement and operation of equipment used so as not to interfere with the 
conduct of the meeting.  At the beginning of the meeting, the chair shall inform other attendees 
 
1 All dates refer to the year 2025. 
2 Video recordings of the Board’s meetings are available through Brookfield Community Arena at 
https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLEZBtq345cqzQaARJA4LIOJm8orNmTnbY. 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
of any recordings.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f).  The requirement that the chair inform attendees of any 
recording includes any recording made by members of the public body itself, as well as 
recordings made for public broadcasting or administrative purposes, such as assisting in the 
drafting of meeting minutes, and applies even when it is widely known that meetings are always 
recorded.  See OML 2023-111; OML 2019- 129; OML 2016-155; OML 2013-136.
3  The Board 
does not dispute that no announcement of recording was made at the start of the Board’s May 20, 
May 22, May 29, June 3, and June 5 meetings.  Therefore, we find that the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law.  We commend the Board’s commitment to ensure future compliance. 
 
The c
omplaint also explains that, although the Board’s meetings are generally held in 
person, there are “disabled residents who attend remotely… under ADA accommodations” via 
the Microsoft Teams platform.  The complaint asserts that individuals joining the meeting via 
Teams “are forced to interact with a pop-up window that states ‘By attending this meeting, you 
agree that you are going to be recorded.’”
4  To the extent this point is intended as a separate 
alleged violation of the Open Meeting Law, we find that the automated notification, which is 
built into the Teams platform, does not violate the Open Meeting Law.  To the contrary, we have 
explained, in the context of remote meetings, that an automated notification of recording that 
appears for each attendee as they join the meeting fulfills the Open Meeting Law’s requirement 
that the chair notify attendees of any recording.  See OML 2024-131.  The automated recording 
notification, if anything, provides greater notification to attendees because it prompts 
acknowledgment of the recording and also provides notification to attendees who join the 
meeting after the chair’s verbal announcement.  See id.  This difference in how remote attendees 
experience the meeting compared to those attending in person does not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
 
For t
he reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to announce that meetings held on May 20, May 22, May 29, June 3, and June 5 were 
being recorded.  We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s 
requirements, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent 
to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government  
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law.  
4 The language of the automated Teams recording notification may differ from that quoted in the complaint. 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
cc: Brookfield Selectboard (via email: selectmen@brookfieldma.us) 
 Brookfield Town Clerk (via email: mseery@brookfieldma.us) 
Christopher Kelleher  
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
