===PAGE 1===
  THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
1 
 
July 17, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 89 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY  
 
James Carvalho 
Chair, Swansea School Committee  
jcarvalho@swanseaschools.org 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Carvalho: 
 
This office received two complaints from Patrick Higgins on May 8 and 28, 2020
1, 
alleging that the Swansea School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Committee on April 7 and 
April 28. On May 11, Eric Graham, Chair of the Committee at that time, responded to both 
complaints via email. The April 7 complaint alleges that 1) the Committee failed to include on an 
amended meeting notice for its April 6 meeting the date and time the original notice was posted, 
and 2) during the April 6 meeting in which Committee members were participating remotely, the 
Committee failed to take all votes by roll call. The April 28 complaint alleges that the Committee 
failed to respond to the April 7 complaint. 
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaints, the Committee’s response, the request for further review, 
the amended notice for the April 6 meeting, and video recordings of the Committee’s April 6 and 
May 11 meetings.2    
 
On March 10, Governor Charles Baker declared a state of emergency in response to the 
public health emergency created by the outbreak of the 2019 novel Coronavirus (“COVID-19”).  
See Exec. Order No. 591 (Mar. 10, 2020). On March 12, Governor Baker issued an executive 
order temporarily suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting Law during the state of 
emergency. See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 
20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”). The Executive Order, in part, temporarily suspends 
 
1 Hereinafter, all dates are in 2020, unless otherwise stated.  
2 The recordings may be accessed at https://vimeo.com/channels/1505236. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
  
the requirements under the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law 
regulations that a quorum of a public body, including the chair, be physically present at the 
meeting location and allows all members of a public body to participate in a meeting remotely.  
All other provisions of the law and regulations regarding remote participation remain in effect, 
including the requirement that “[a]ll votes taken during any meeting in which a member 
participates remotely must be by roll call vote.” 940 CMR 29.10(7)(c).   
 
The relevant facts are not in dispute. At some point before April 2 at 2:00 p.m., the 
Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on April 6 at 6:00 p.m. On April 2 at 2:00 
p.m., the Committee posted an amended notice for the April 6 meeting. In a text box entitled 
“Amended Agenda received and posted” the April 2 notice includes the date and time it was 
posted. The April 2 notice does not include the date and time the earlier notice was posted. Three 
members of the Committee participated in the April 6 meeting remotely. Several votes taken 
during the meeting were not conducted by roll call vote. Finally, the Committee did not review 
and respond to the Complainant’s April 7 complaint until May 11.  
 
The Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations provide that  
 
[t]he date and time that a meeting notice is posted shall be conspicuously recorded 
thereon or therewith. If an ame ndment occurs within 48 hours of  a meeting, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, an d legal holidays, then the date  and time that the 
meeting notice is amended shall also be conspicuously recorded thereon or 
therewith. 
 
940 CMR 29.03(1)(d). Here, where the meeting notice was amended and then posted on 
April 2 at 2:00 p.m., more than 48 hours before the April 6 meeting, the notice was not 
required to include the date and time it was amended. Because the April 2 notice was 
posted more than 48 hours before the April 6 meeting, and because it included the date 
and time it was posted, there was no violation of the Open Meeting Law in this instance. 
Although we do not find a violation here, we remind the Committee of its obligation to  
conspicuously record on its meeting notices the date and time that they are posted.
3 
 
 Next, the Committee asserts that the Executive Order suspended  all of General 
Law Chapter 30A, Section 20 and thereby suspended all requirements pertaining to 
remote participation. We disagree. The Executive Order, with regard to remote 
participation, suspended only the requirement that a quorum of a public body, including 
the chair, be physically present at the meeting location. Executive Order, § 2. All other 
 
3 Although not raised in the complaint, we note that the Committee’s meeting notice did not sufficiently inform the 
public how it could access the April 6 meeting virtually. The location listed on the meeting notice was the physical 
location at which two Committee members, the Superintendent of Schools, and the Assistant Superintendent were 
located. Under the section titled “1. Call to order,” the notice includes in bold type, “[t]he administration building is 
closed to the public. However, the meeting is being broadcast live and a phone line will be open at 508 250-0643.” 
Although the Committee attempted to inform the public how it could access the April 6 meeting, we recommend 
that the Committee include this information under the “Location of Meeting” section of its meeting notices going 
forward, and also that notices include more detailed information regarding the specific channel or channels on which 
a meeting will be broadcast live.   
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
  
provisions of the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s regulations remain in 
effect. Executive Order, § 4. The Attorney General’s regulations require that “[a]ll votes 
taken during any meeting in which a member participates remotely shall be by roll 
call vote.” 940 CMR 29.10(7)(c). Accordingly, because the Committee failed to conduct 
roll call votes during the April 6 meeting, we find that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law.4 See OML 2020-82.5 
 
Finally, a public body must review and respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint 
within 14 business days of receipt of the complaint, unless it secures an extension of time from 
the Director of the Division of Open Government. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). We 
find the Committee violated the Law where, without being granted an extension of time, it did 
not review or respond to the Complainant’s April 7 complaint until May 11, 23 business days 
after April 7. Although we understand the challenges facing public bodies during this state of 
emergency and understand that the Committee has committed to reviewing and responding to 
Open Meeting Law complaints within the prescribed timeframe going forward, we note that the 
Committee has properly responded to at least six previous Open Meeting Law complaints and we 
find it concerning that the Committee failed to do so in this instance. We caution the Committee 
that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law and could 
result in the imposition of a fine.     
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it failed to take all votes by roll call at its April 6 meeting, and when it failed to respond to 
the Complainant’s April 7 Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 business days. We find that 
the Committee did not violate the Law when posting notice for its April 6 meeting. We order the 
 
4 In his request for further review, the Complainant requests “the imposition of the $1000 fine for the willful refusal 
to conduct all votes on motions by roll call votes.” Our office may only impose a civil penalty when we determine 
that a public body intentionally violated the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c)(4). An intentional violation is  
 
an act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in kno wing violation of M.G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18 through 25. Evidence of an intentional violation . . . sh all include, but not be limited to, that 
the public body or public body member: (a) acted with specific intent to violate the law; (b) acted 
with deliberate ignorance of the law's requirements; or (c) was previously informed by receipt of a 
decision from a court of competent jurisdiction or advised by the Attorney General, pursuant to 940 
CMR 29.07 or 940 CMR 29.08, that the conduct violates [the Law]. Where a public body or public 
body member has made a good faith attempt at compliance with th e law, but was reasonably 
mistaken about its requirements, such conduct will not be considered an intentional violation. 
 
940 CMR 29.02. After review of the Committee’s response and the video recording of its May 11 meeting, we find 
that the Committee did not intentionally violate the law when it failed to take all votes by roll call at its April 6 
meeting, but rather, that the Committee was either unaware of the requirement to take all votes by roll call when 
members participate remotely, or incorrectly believed that the Executive Order suspended all requirements 
governing remote participation. We note that during the Committee’s May 11 discussion of the two Open Meeting 
Law complaints, the Chair at the time explained that he had reviewed the Open Meeting Law statute and did not find 
any requirement that public bodies vote by roll call when a member participates in a meeting remotely. It appears 
from this discussion that the Committee may be unaware of the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations. 
We strongly suggest that the Committee familiarize itself with those regulations.  
5 All previous determinations and declinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s 
website: https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
  
Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law’s requirements, and 
we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via e-mail : ) 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
