===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
January 15, 2019
Peter Rittenburg, Executive Secretary 
Bay State Conference 
115 Greenough Street 
Brookline, MA 02445
RE: OML 2018 - 129
Dear Mr. Rittenburg:
Our office received your October 12, 2018 letter in which you request reconsideration 
of our September 24, 2018 determination, OML 2018-129, resolving a complaint filed by 
Paul Sullivan against the Bay State Conference (the “BSC”). In your letter, you request that 
the Division of Open Government (the “Division”) reconsider its finding that the BSC is a 
public body subject to the Open Meeting Law.
There is no statutory right to reconsideration by the Office of the Attorney General of 
an Open Meeting Law determination or declination. While the Division generally will not 
reconsider past determinations, here the BSC has informed us that, following our 
determination, it has restructured its organization. Specifically, the BSC has divested from 
any formal delegation of authority bestowed by the Massachusetts Interscholastic Athletic 
Association (“MIAA”), as described below. In light of this new information, we grant your 
request for reconsideration.
The MIAA is a non-profit corporation chartered pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3) 
which is subject to the Open Meeting Law. See Hansberry v. Massachusetts Interscholastic 
Athletic Assoc.. Inc.. 1998 WL 1181911 (Mass. Super. 1998). Along with administrative 
tasks such as scheduling athletic competitions, the MIAA hears appeals of student eligibility 
determinations. Such eligibility questions arise where a student is ineligible to participate in 
athletic events—for example, if a student turns eighteen years old or is disqualified for 
academic reasons. In those circumstances, the ineligible student’s school can appeal the 
ineligibility to the MIAA. According to the MIAA Handbook, the MIAA Board of Directors 
vested 4 of its approximately 30 leagues, including the BSC, with the authority to make 
decisions regarding student eligibility waivers. To carry out this responsibility, the BSC 
created an Eligibility Review Board that follows the MIAA eligibility rules.

===PAGE 2===
Our original finding that the BSC is a public body hinged on MIAA’s delegation of 
authority to the BSC to render eligibility decisions. We concluded that the member public 
school committees empowered the MIAA to make decisions that those public bodies would 
otherwise have to make, thus the MIAA accepted that delegation of authority, and the MIAA, 
in turn, vested that authority in the BSC. Accordingly, because the BSC determined 
eligibility for student athletes, matters that the school committees would otherwise be 
authorized to perform but for having delegated the authority to the MIAA, we concluded that 
it is a public body empowered by the MIAA to make decisions collectively.1 Having 
subsequently formally divested itself of any decision-making authority granted by the MIAA, 
however, the BSC, we find, is no longer a de facto subcommittee of the MIAA and, as a 
result, is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law.
Since the issuance of OML 2018-129, the BSC has provided us with a copy of a recent 
amendment to Article 9 of its Constitution. As amended, Article 9 dissolves the BSC’s 
Eligibility Review Board and divests the authority granted by the MIAA “for all student 
eligibility decisions regarding MIAA Rules 45 (and 96), 55, 57, 59 and 60,” thereby 
effectively returning its decision-making authority concerning eligibility to the MIAA.
Further, with respect to waiver requests allowing middle school students to play on a high 
school team, Article 9 now states that the BSC supports all waiver requests from member 
schools and “defers to the MIAA District C DAC for final approval of all Rule 53 waiver 
requests and cooperative team requests.”
We take this opportunity to address several other tasks performed by the BSC which 
we conclude are not matters upon which the MIAA has vested BSC with authority to act.
First, the BSC schedules public school athletic events that, if the BSC did not exist, would be 
performed by individual athletic directors and not school committees. Second, the BSC 
considers and grants student-athlete awards or other recognition based on various factors, 
including merit. The MIAA plays no role in deciding or granting such awards. Because 
athletic directors are responsible for performing those tasks that are entirely unrelated to the 
MIAA’s delegation of decision-making authority, they are not tasks within the BSC’s 
jurisdiction for which the Open Meeting Law would apply. Finally, the BSC establishes 
policies regarding practices and competitions which adhere to the MIAA rules regarding 
season limits (i.e., when practices may begin for each season) and contest limits (i.e., how 
many contests may be played in a season). While such decisions are collectively made by the 
BSC, they are not made at the direction of the MIAA, statute, regulation, or any other 
authority able to delegate the power to act collectively, but rather made by the BSC as a 
collective group of athletic directors of member schools who pledge to abide by the MIAA’s 
rules. Without authority empowering the BSC to act collectively with respect to those tasks, 
the BSC does not satisfy the second factor of our three-factor test, as outlined in the original 
determination. See OML 2017-112 (a group that is formed on its own and is not established 
by state law to act collectively or to serve a specific public purpose is not a public body).
1 We note that our finding also included the BSC’s task of scheduling public school athletic events. For reasons 
set forth in the next paragraph, we hereby modify OML 2018-129 to the extent we concluded that this task was a 
matter within the BSC’s jurisdiction because it was delegated such authority by the individual school committees 
via the MIAA.
2

===PAGE 3===
Based on the foregoing, we hereby modify our finding in OML 2018-129 to conclude 
that the BSC as currently structured is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. Please feel 
free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely yours,
Assistant Attorney General
cc: Paul Sullivan
Geoffrey R. Bok, Esq., Stoneman, Chandler & Miller LLP
3

===PAGE 4===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
September 24, 2018
OML 2018-129
Peter Rittenburg, Executive Secretary 
Bay State Conference 
115 Greenough Street 
Brookline, MA 02445
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Mr. Rittenburg:
This office received a complaint from Paul Sullivan on March 17, 2018, alleging that 
the Bay State Conference (the “BSC”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18- 
25. The complaint was originally filed with the BSC on or about February 16, 2018, and you 
responded on behalf of the BSC in a letter dated March 9, 2018. In his complaint, Mr. 
Sullivan alleges that the BSC held meetings without following the requirements of the Open 
Meeting Law. In response, the BSC argues that it is not a public body subject to the law.
Following our review, we find that the BSC is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the BSC’s 
response, and the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the 
Constitution of the Massachusetts Interscholastic Athletic Association (the “MIAA”) and 
other relevant materials available on the MIAA website, as well as the BSC Constitution 
provided to us by the complainant.1 Finally, we spoke individually by telephone with you on 
April 5; with MIAA Executive Director Richard Pearson on April 26, 2018; and with MIAA 
legal counsel Geoffrey Bok on May 3 and July 2 and 9, 2018.
FACTS
The MIAA. We find the facts as follows. The MIAA is a non-profit corporation 
chartered pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3). It is comprised of 377 secondary schools, most of 
which are public schools, as well as some private and parochial schools. According to its 
Constitution, the MIAA’s purpose is to “organize, regulate, and promote interscholastic
1 Available at http://www.miaa.net/miaa/home?sid=38.

===PAGE 5===
athletics for secondary schools in Massachusetts.” All member schools pay dues to the MIAA 
and pledge to adhere to its rules. Public school committees decide whether their school 
district will join the MIAA. Along with administrative tasks such as scheduling athletic 
competitions, the MIAA hears appeals of student eligibility determinations. Such eligibility 
questions arise where a student is ineligible to participate in athletic events—for example, if a 
student turns eighteen years old or is disqualified for academic reasons. In those 
circumstances, the ineligible student’s school can appeal the ineligibility to the MIAA.
In 1998, the Superior Court held that the MIAA is subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
See Hansberry v. Massachusetts Interscholastic Athletic Assoc.. Inc.. 1998 WL 1181911 
(Mass. Super. 1998). As part of its analysis, the court (Volterra, J.) concluded that, “[sjince 
the public school committees have collectively delegated their ability to control athletic 
programs to the MIAA, and the MIAA has agreed to act as their argent by performing this 
important public function, it adopts the attributes of its principals and is subject to the same 
requirements as other governmental bodies.” Id. at *4. Further, the court concluded that 
eligibility review hearings were “meetings” within the Open Meeting Law because “[t]he 
regulation of an important public school function concerns the public interest.” Id2 We 
understand that, consistent with this historical background, the MIAA Board of Directors and 
some of its committees presently comply with the Open Meeting Law’s requirements.
The BSC. The BSC is one of approximately 30 leagues of the MIAA, the governing 
bodies of which do not currently comply with the Open Meeting Law.3 Eleven member 
schools participate in the BSC. Unlike some of the other leagues, the BSC is comprised 
entirely of public schools. Each member school pays dues to the BSC to cover the cost of 
items such as plaques. Each member school designates its athletic director to serve as the 
liaison to the BSC. According to the BSC Constitution, “[rjegular BSC business shall be 
conducted at monthly meetings of BSC athletic directors who shall represent their Principals.” 
The BSC generally takes votes and creates minutes of certain meetings.
According to the MIAA Handbook, the MIAA Board of Directors vested four of its 
approximately 30 leagues, including the BSC, with the authority to make decisions regarding 
student eligibility waivers. To carry out this responsibility, the BSC created an Eligibility 
Review Board that follows the MIAA eligibility rules. The Eligibility Review Board consists 
of a rotating roster of BSC member athletic directors who sit in a group to hear appeals that 
come from schools other than the one at which they work.
2 We note that the Supreme Judicial Court has also stated that the MIAA is a state actor for the purposes of an 
equal protection claim, because, in part, virtually all public schools are members and public school committees 
delegate some authority to it pursuant to G.L. c. 71, § 47. See Attorney General, et al. v. Massachusetts 
Interscholastic Athletic Assoc.. Inc., et al., 378 Mass. 342, 349 (1979). Conversely, the Supervisor of Records 
within the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s Office has since ruled that the MIAA is not a public entity subject 
to the Public Records Law. See SPR 12/181.
3 The term “league” does not appear to be defined in any materials provided by the MIAA or the BSC. 
Generally, based on conversation with the MIAA’s legal counsel, we understand the leagues to be groupings, 
determined by the MIAA, of which schools will compete against each other, share the cost of awards banquets, 
and undertake other related tasks.
2

===PAGE 6===
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law applies only to a public body, which is defined, in relevant 
part, as “a multiple member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the 
executive or legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however 
created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]” 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A “subcommittee” is defined as a multiple-member body created to advise 
or make recommendations to a public body. G.L. c. 30A, § 18.
The complaint alleges that the BSC is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
To determine whether a multiple-member entity is a public body subject to the Open Meeting 
Law, we consider three factors:
1. The entity must be “within ” government and not excluded from the definition of
“public body”;
2. The  entity must be a “body, ” empowered to act collectively; and
3. The  entity must serve a “public purpose. ”
See OML 2010-1.4 Generally, we find that non-profit organizations are not “within” 
government and therefore not considered public bodies. See OML 2016-3; OML 2015-189. 
However, we are guided by the Superior Court’s conclusion that the MIAA is a public body. 
Hansberry, 1998 WL 1181911. We are persuaded by much of the Superior Court’s analysis 
in that decision, and it is instructive in our review. For substantially the reasons stated in that 
decision, including that the MIAA acts as an agent of the public schools and performs duties 
that the school committees are otherwise authorized to perform, we find that, as a 
subcommittee of the MIAA, the BSC is “within” government. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18 
(defining a “subcommittee” to “include any multiple-member body created to advise or make 
recommendations to a public body”). Similarly, with respect to the third prong, we have 
stated in a prior determination that the operation of an athletic league “is not the type of 
essentially governmental function that falls within the scope of the Open Meeting Law.”
OML 2015-23. Here, however, because the BSC schedules public school athletic events and 
determines eligibility for student athletes, matters that the school committees would otherwise 
be authorized to perform but for having delegated the authority to the MIAA (which in turn 
delegated it to the BSC), it serves a public purpose. Put another way, the public school 
committees at issue have empowered the MIAA to make decisions that those public bodies 
would otherwise have to make, the MIAA has accepted that delegation of authority, and the 
MIAA has, in turn, vested that authority in the BSC. As the Superior Court concluded in 
Hansberry, the MIAA - and, we conclude, the BSC - thus “adopts the attributes of its 
principals and is subject to the same requirements as other governmental bodies.” 
Accordingly, the BSC satisfies both factors one and three of the above analysis.
We turn to the consideration of the second factor. The BSC consists of a defined 
group of 11 individuals—the athletic directors of each member school—who together decide 
administrative matters such as the scheduling of athletic events. Further, beyond this
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.go/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 7===
scheduling responsibility, the MIAA has delegated authority to the BSC to make decisions 
regarding student athletes’ eligibility. The MIAA therefore empowers the BSC to act 
collectively to make those decisions in compliance with the MIAA eligibility rules. See OML 
2017-112; OML 2015-34. While such collective action may be undertaken by the BSC’s 
subsidiary Eligibility Review Board, this fact does not alter our analysis. The BSC retains 
responsibility for eligibility determinations under the MIAA rules, and the BSC could, in 
theory, dissolve the Eligibility Review Board and begin making such determinations without 
that subsidiary body. We therefore do not consider the delegation to the Eligibility Review 
Board to be a salient factor in our consideration of whether the BSC is empowered to act 
collectively. Based on the foregoing, we find that the BSC satisfies the second factor of the 
above analysis and therefore is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML 
2015-83; OML 2015-46; OML 2013-56; OML 2012-20. We note that our finding is limited 
to the BSC and does not address the Open Meeting Law’s application to the MIAA or any of 
its other committees or leagues.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that BSC is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law. We order immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements. 
Further, we order the BSC to create minutes for all previous meetings to the best of its ability, 
through whatever means are available, including the memories and individual notations of the 
attendees. Compliance with this order should occur within sixty (60) days of the BSC’s 
receipt of this letter. The BSC must certify in writing, pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07(4), that it 
has complied with this order.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the BSC. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Paul Sullivan
Geoffrey R. Bok, Esq., Stoneman, Chandler & Miller LLP
4

===PAGE 8===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt
of a final order.
5
