===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
 
       September 16, 2025 
 
OML 2025 – 146 
 
 
Samantha Vasques, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
227 Union Street 
New Bedford, MA 02740 
 
By email only: sam@mtclawyers.com 
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Vasques: 
 
 This office received a complaint from Cindy King on June 17, 2025, and a complaint 
from Harrison Mayotte on July 28, 2025, alleging that the Townsend Selectboard (the “Board”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1  Mr. Mayotte’s complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on April 30, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter 
dated May 20.  Ms. King’s complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about May 6, and 
you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated May 27.  Both complaints allege that the 
Board discussed a matter that was not appropriate for executive session during a meeting held on 
April 29. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the way 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s 
responses to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review.  
In addition, we reviewed the notice and open and executive session minutes of the Board 
meeting held on April 29, as well as a video recording of that meeting.
2   
 
 
 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2025. 
2 A recording of the Board’s April 29 meeting is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qxCCTjg6LJ0.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
April 29 at 6:00 P.M.  The notice listed six main topic headings, one of which was an executive 
session pursuant to Purpose 3 to “discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining if an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the public body and the 
chair so declares. (Clerical Union, Supervisors Union, Highway/Water Union, Police Union, Fire 
Union).”  
 
The April 29 meeting was held as planned.  The Board first convened in open session at 
6:00 P.M. and discussed several topics.  At 8:26 P.M., Board Chair Laura Shifrin announced that 
the Board would convene in executive session and then reconvene in open session following the 
conclusion of the executive session.  Board Member Valerie Goodrich made a motion, which 
was seconded by Board Member Veronica Kell, to enter executive session to “discuss strategy 
with respect to collective bargaining if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining position of the public body and the chair so declares. (Clerical Union, Supervisors 
Union, Highway/Water Union, Police Union, Fire Union).”
3  The minutes of the April 29 
meeting record that the Board unanimously voted by roll call to convene in executive session. 
 
The Board has not publicly released the minutes of the executive session, and therefore 
we do not recount their content in detail here.  However, we note that the Board discussed the 
town’s budget and ways to reduce it.   
 
The Board remained in executive session for about one hour and 30 minutes and 
reconvened in open session at 10:08 P.M. after the conclusion of the executive session.  Chair 
Shifrin announced that the Board “had a work session on the budget that we are going to now 
vote on that will be presented” at the Annual Town Meeting on May 6.  Board Member Kell then 
made 10 separate motions, which were seconded by Board Member Valerie Goodrich, to 
approve 10 specific budgets for fiscal year 2026.  All motions were approved by majority vote. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
beration and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  A public 
body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the 
Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is 
recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether 
 
3 We note that the Chair failed to make the required statement that holding a discussion in open session may have a 
detrimental effect on the Board’s bargaining position.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3).  Prior to convening in executive 
session, Board Member Goodrich simply read from the law stating “if an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect” on the Board’s bargaining position but the Chair did not specifically declare, as is required, that discussions 
in open session may have a detrimental effect on the Board’s negotiating position.  See OML 2024-161; OML 2015-
13.  We remind the Board of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.4   
 
One permissible reason to convene in executive session is to “discuss strategy with 
res
pect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).  When meeting in executive session, a public body may only address 
subjects related to the narrow executive session purpose the public body cited when entering 
executive session.  See District Attorney for the Northwestern Dist. v. Board of Selectmen of 
Sunderland, 11 Mass. App. Ct. 663, 666 (1981) (executive session may not be used as a blanket 
reason to deliberate on matters other than those pertaining to the specific purpose for which 
executive session was called).  Public bodies are responsible for ensuring that when convened in 
executive session, they discuss only matters that are appropriate for executive session and for 
which they have provided notice to the public.  We acknowledge that managing the flow of 
conversation can be difficult.  Nevertheless, it is incumbent upon the public body to carefully 
monitor its executive session discussions to ensure that they do not stray from the lawful purpose 
for which the executive session was called.  See OML 2021-80; OML 2010-6.  
 
The complaints challenge the propriety of the Board’s A
 pril 29 executive session 
discussions.  The Board contends that the discussions pertained to potential cuts to union 
positions and therefore were appropriate under Purpose 3.  While it is reasonable to anticipate 
that some discussion of the budget would be part of a collective bargaining discussion, 
discussion of a more wide-ranging strategy that would reach beyond the noticed bargaining units 
is not appropriate for executive session as such deliberations are more akin to a budget 
discussion.  See OML 2015-63; OML 2014-30.  Our review of the as-yet-unreleased executive 
session minutes finds that the Board’s discussions did not relate to or involve strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining negotiations, although we acknowledge that the Board discussed 
some union positions.  Rather, the Board’s discussions pertained to methods and tools it would 
use to balance the budget and as such were related more to general budgetary matters.  Purpose 3 
limits discussion to those topics that directly relate to strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining negotiations, rather than broader policy or budgetary matters that could conceivably 
arise during future negotiations.  See OML 2024-204; OML 2019-170; OML 2017-54.  As such, 
we find that the Board’s discussions in executive session did not fit within the parameters of 
Purpose 3 and the Board therefore violated the Open Meeting Law.   
 
Although not specifically raised in the complaints, we note that it does not appear that the 
Boar
d properly convened in executive session during the April 29 meeting.  The Open Meeting 
Law requires that, prior to convening in executive session, a majority of members of the public 
body vote by roll to go into executive session.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b).  After watching a video 
recording of the April 29 meeting, the Board did not vote to convene in executive session.  
Rather, a motion was made and seconded to convene in executive session, but the Board never 
thereafter voted by roll call.  We remind the Board of its obligations under the law. 
 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
In addition, we no te that the minutes of the April 29 meeting reflect that a roll call vote 
was taken to convene in executive session even though no vote actually occurred.  The Open 
Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, 
including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or 
absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used 
at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of 
all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  To be “accurate,” meeting minutes must accurately reflect the 
discussions and actions that took place during a meeting.  See OML 2024-148; OML 2020-62.  
Because the minutes must accurately capture the discussions and actions that actually took place, 
it is inappropriate to include information in meeting minutes that was not discussed or did not 
occur at a meeting.   
   
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Ope n Meeting Law by 
discussing matters in executive session during a meeting held on April 29 that were not 
appropriate for executive session.  We order immediate and future compliance with the law’s 
requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law.  In addition, we order the Board, within 30 days of the date of this letter, 
to release the executive session minutes of the meeting held on April 29 in their entirety and to 
notify our office that it has done so.  The Board may not redact or withhold the minutes in any 
way.  See G.L c. 30A, § 22(f) (the minutes of any executive session may be withheld from 
disclosure to the public as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive 
session; provided, however, that the executive session was held in compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law); OML 2020-63; OML 2019-164; OML 2017-23; OML 2015-120. 
 
We now co
nsider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
      
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  Cindy King – By email only:  
 Harrison Mayotte – By email only: hmayotte@townsendma.gov  
Townsend Selectboard c/o Chair Laura Shifrin – By email only: 
lshifrin@townsendma.gov 
Townsend Town Clerk – By email only: clerk@townsendma.gov 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 