===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
February 12, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 12 
 
 
VIA EMAIL  
 
Thomas A. Mullen, Esq. 
Law Offices of Thomas A. Mullen 
40 Salem Street 
Lynnfield, MA 01940 
tmullen@thomasamullenpc.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Mullen 
 
This office received a complaint from Scot McCauley on June 7, 2024, alleging that 
the Wakefield Town Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Council on May 3, 2024, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Council, by letter dated May 22, 2024.
1  The complaint alleges 
that the Council posted an insufficiently specific notice for its April 8 meeting. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Council’s 
response to the complaint, the complainant’s request for further review of the complaint, and 
additional email correspondence from the complainant received in August.  We reviewed the 
notice and minutes of the Council’s April 8 meeting, as well as additional documentation that 
the Council posted online along with the meeting notice.  We also reviewed a video of the 
Council’s April 8 meeting.
2  Finally, we corresponded with the Council’s attorney. 
 
  
 
1 All dates refer to the year 2024. 
2 A video recording of the council’s April 8 meeting is available online at 
https://youtu.be/Bmwb0O00A0A?si=eSsGGokCUF9DEwNL.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  The Council posted notice for a meeting to take place on 
April 8 at 6:00 PM.  The notice included 15 item headings, with more detailed topics beneath.  
Item 9, “Presentations/Updates,” included the subtopics “A. Flag Policy – Amendment”; “B. 
Request to fly American Flag, Pride Flag, and Juneteenth Flag on designated dates in 2024”; 
and “C. Climate Leaders.”  No additional detail regarding the topic “Climate Leaders” was 
included on the meeting notice.   
 
 The Council convened the meeting as scheduled.  Approximately three- and-a-half 
hours into the meeting, Councilor member Julie Smith-Galvin presented about the Climate 
Leader Communities program, a Massachusetts program through which communities 
voluntarily commit to certain climate and clean energy benchmarks in order to become 
certified as a “Climate Leader Community.”  Councilor Smith-Galvin explained that once 
certified as a Climate Leader Community, the municipality becomes eligible for grant funding 
to support energy efficiency projects, services, and policies.  The Council was told of an April 
12 deadline to apply for a technical assistance planning grant.  Councilor Smith-Galvin 
explained, as also outlined in an accompanying PowerPoint presentation, that applying for the 
planning grant requires a letter of commitment from the Town of Wakefield that it will “meet 
all Climate Leader Community requirements within one year of the technical assistance 
grant.”  As explained at the meeting, the additional requirements that the Town had not yet 
satisfied included adopting a Decarbonization Roadmap, a Zero-emission Vehicle First 
Policy, and a 2050 Fossil Fuel-Free Commitment.   
 
Upon adoption of those three remaining policies/commitments, the Town would 
become eligible to apply for recognition as a Climate Leader Community, which then renders 
it eligible to apply for additional grant funding.  Applying for Climate Leader Community 
recognition requires an additional letter of commitment authorized by the Town’s chief 
executive officer, namely, the Council.  The Town did not apply for Climate Leader 
Community recognition by a December 2024 deadline, although there may be additional 
opportunities to pursue such designation in the future.   
 
Following approximately 30 minutes of discussion during the April 8 meeting, which 
focused on the potential costs and feasibility of implementing a Zero-emission Vehicle First 
Policy and a 2050 Fossil Fuel-Free Commitment, the Council voted to apply for the technical 
assistance planning grant.  The Town subsequently submitted a commitment letter to the 
Department of Energy Resources and received the technical assistance planning grant.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall 
post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, 
Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must include a “listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b).  Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with “sufficient specificity 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 
29.03(1)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable 
member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public 
body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35.  A public body need not list each and every detail 
about a topic in order to comply with the Law’s requirements.  See OML 2022-98; OML 
2020-132; OML 2019-134.  When reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is 
clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting notice standing alone.  See OML 
2015-109; OML 2014-155.  Rather, we review what was actually discussed at the meeting to 
determine if the notice was sufficiently detailed to make the public aware of the discussion 
topics.  See OML 2021-22; OML 2020-137; OML 2019-64.
   
 
The complaint alleges that the topic “Climate Leaders” was insufficiently specific.  
We agree.  The topic as posted provided no information as to what “Climate Leaders” referred 
to, let alone the nature of the Council’s discussion.  The meeting notice did not even reference 
the Climate Leader Communities program by its correct name nor otherwise indicate that 
“Climate Leaders” referred to a state program to which the Council would consider applying, 
as opposed to, for example, an opportunity to recognize influential climate advocates or a 
discussion of the local climate.  Therefore, the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently specific notice for its April 8 meeting.    
 
We acknowledge the C
 ouncil’s assertion that additional information regarding the 
Climate Leaders program, including the full PowerPoint presentation that was presented 
during the meeting, was posted online in advance of the meeting.  The Complainant disputes 
the Council’s assertions regarding what information was posted and when.  We need not 
resolve this disagreement because the separate posting of additional detail or documents 
pertaining to a discussion topic does not impact our consideration of whether the notice itself 
complied with the Open Meeting Law’s specificity requirement.  Even for public bodies that 
use a website as their official notice posting method and therefore may post supporting 
documentation online, the meeting notice itself must include the level of specificity that the 
Open Meeting Law requires.  See OML 2021-138; OML 2021-57; OML 2020-21; OML 
2019-24; OML 2019-22.  Therefore, we need not resolve any dispute as to the content or 
timing of supplemental postings, as we review only the notice itself to determine whether the 
topic as listed on the notice was sufficiently specific.   
 
Likewise, we do not review the Complainant’s concerns that information regarding the 
Cl
imate Leader Communities program was provided to three members of the Council in 
advance of the April 8 meeting but that the other four Council members lacked the benefit of 
such information.  Nothing in the Open Meeting Law prohibits public body members 
individually or among less than a quorum from reviewing and discussing matters outside of a 
noticed meeting.  See OML 2022-231.  There also is no requirement in the Open Meeting 
Law that information provided to some members be provided to all members. 
 
Fina
lly, having found that the Council’s discussion and vote during its April 8 meeting 
violated the Open Meeting Law, we consider the Complainant’s request that the Town be 
“removed” from its commitments with regard to the Climate Leaders program.  The Open 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Meeting Law authorizes the Attorney General, upon find a violation of the Open Meeting 
Law, to “nullify in whole or in part any action taken at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c)(3).  
We acknowledge the Complainant’s concerns regarding a public body taking action, 
especially of a significant nature, without adequate notice to the public and indeed we have 
nullified such action in the past.  See, e.g., OML 2023-100; 2023-86; OML 2023-24.  In this 
instance, however, after speaking with the Council’s attorney as well as further reviewing the 
requirements of the Climate Leader Communities program, we are satisfied that the Council’s 
vote at its April 8 meeting did not bind the Town to any additional expenditures or 
undertakings.  The Town has already applied for, received, and utilized the technical 
assistance planning grant.  Additional commitments, such as implementing a Zero-emission 
Vehicle First Policy or a 2050 Fossil Fuel-Free Commitment, as well as applying for 
recognition as a Climate Leader Community, will necessitate further action by the Council.  
Therefore, we decline to nullify the Council’s vote at its April 8 meeting.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law 
by posting a notice for its April 8 meeting that was insufficiently specific.  We order the 
Council’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that a 
finding of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of an intent to violate 
the Law.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Council.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Scot McCauley (via email: ) 
Wakefield Town Administrator (via email:
 smaio@wakefield.ma.us) 
Wakefield Town Clerk (via email: bsheeran@wakefield.ma.us) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
