===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
March 22, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 - 39 
 
 
James M. Pender, Esq. 
Morgan Brown & Joy 
200 State Street 
Boston, MA 02109 
 
By email only: jpender@morganbrown.com 
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Pender: 
 
This office received a complaint from David Palmer on December 7, 2022, alleging that 
the Belmont School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about October 19, 2022, 
and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated December 12, 2022.1  The 
complaint alleges that the Committee posted an insufficiently specific notice with respect to an 
executive session topic and failed to conduct certain procedural requirements prior to convening 
in such executive session during a meeting held on September 20, 2022.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to conduct a roll call vote prior to convening in executive session.  We find that the 
Committee did not violate the law in the other way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint 
filed with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed the notice and open and 
amended minutes of the Committee meeting held on September 20, a video recording of the 
September 20 meeting,
2 and minutes of the Committee meetings held on October 13 and 
November 15.   
 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2022. 
2 A video recording of the Committee meeting held on September 20 is available at 
https://belmontmedia.org/watch/school-committee-town-belmont and at 
https://videoplayer.telvue.com/player/uClcIN88BHKHJoveFoaVN 8 5Tg72P0o/playlists/6555/media/745362?sequ
enceNumber=11&autostart=true&showtabssearch=true.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Committee duly posted notice for a meeting to be held 
on September 20 at 6:00 P.M. in Room 19 of the Homer Municipal Building Gallery.  The first 
topic on the notice was an executive session “for the purpose of discussing strategy with regard 
to litigation of OML complaint given that a discussion in Open Session may have a detrimental 
impact on the School Committee’s position.”  The notice then listed six additional open session 
topics.  
 
The September 20 meeting was held as planned and the Committee convened in open 
session.  Board Chair Meghan Moriarty announced that one member was absent, one member 
was participating remotely, and the remaining four members were present in the physical 
meeting location.  Chair Moriarty then moved to “convene in executive session for the purpose 
of discussing strategy with regard to litigation of an Open Meeting Law complaint given that a 
discussion in Open Session may have a detrimental impact on the School Committee’s position.” 
Chair Moriarty asked “all in favor?” and members raised their hands.  She then announced that 
the Committee would reconvene in open session at 6:30 P.M.  During the executive session, the 
Committee discussed a previous Open Meeting Law complaint filed by the complainant.  The 
Committee reconvened in open session at 6:31 P.M. and discussed the noticed open session 
topics.   
 
During an October 13 meeting, the Committee approved the minutes of the September 20 
meeting.  These minutes reflect the vote taken to convene in executive session as “all aye (5-0).”  
During a November 15 meeting, the Committee voted to amend the minutes of the September 20 
meeting “to include details about the roll call vote to enter into Executive Session.”  The 
amended minutes reflect the vote taken to convene in executive session as “Roll call vote: 
Bowen (aye), Checkoway (aye), Liberty (aye), Saeh (aye), Moriarty (aye). Motion approved 5-
0.”   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.  
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for 
any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened 
in an open session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive 
session, that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and 
the chair has publicly announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of 
the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.
3   
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The chair of the public body must announce in open session the purpose for the executive 
ses
sion, “stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called.”  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b)(3); see also District Attorney 
for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of 
the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only notification 
given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the 
public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”).  This level of detail 
about the executive session topic must also be included in the meeting notice.  See G.L. c. 30A,  
§ 20(b); OML 2016-72.  
 
The September 20 meeting notice and the chair’s announcement in open session during 
the S
eptember 20 meeting described the executive session as pertaining to strategy with respect 
to litigation, suggesting that the discussion fell under Purpose 3, and identified the “litigation” 
matter as an Open Meeting Law complaint.  Executive session Purpose 3 allows a public body 
“to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may 
have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair 
so declares.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).  Although some administrative adjudicatory 
matters before an agency may be appropriate for a discussion of litigation strategy under Purpose 
3, see OML 2015-13 (finding that Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination and 
Architectural Access Board adjudicatory hearing procedures closely resemble traditional 
litigation such that matters before these entities are considered pending litigation), Open Meeting 
Law complaints result in an administrative review process conducted by our office, rather than a 
proceeding before a judge or an adjudicatory hearing officer, and are therefore not considered 
litigation for which strategy would need to be protected.  Additionally, this administrative 
complaint process could ultimately lead to litigation if our office found an intentional violation 
for which an adjudicatory hearing officer would be appointed to conduct an independent review 
of the case or if the public body appeals our decision in superior court.  However, the review of 
Open Meeting Law complaints for the purpose of preparing an initial response does not rise to 
the level of imminently threatened litigation.  The mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient 
to invoke Purpose 3.  See Doherty v. School Comm. of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); 
Perryman v. School Comm. of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-05.  
Accordingly, the Committee should not have relied on Purpose 3 for this discussion.  See OML 
2019-57.  Rather, we have consistently said that a public body may convene in executive session 
pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) to review Open Meeting Law complaints.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1” allows a public body “[t]o discuss the reputation, character, physical 
condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss 
the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, 
employee, staff member or individual”); OML 2013-82; OML 2012-119; OML 2011-6.   
 
While we conclude that the Committee had a valid statutory basis for holding this 
discussion in executive session, the Committee failed to cite the correct statutory purpose for the 
executive session, both on the meeting notice and in the verbal statement made during the 
meeting.  The Committee described this as a discussion of a litigation matter when it should have 
described it as a discussion of complaints or charges against public officials.  See OML 2016-20.  
However, when reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its 
face, we do not review a meeting notice standing alone.  See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Rather, we review what was actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was 
suff
iciently detailed to make the public aware of the discussion topics.  See OML 2015-101; 
OML 2015-21.  Here, because the notice and the Chair’s announcement prior to convening in 
executive session specified that the Committee would discuss an Open Meeting Law complaint, 
which we have consistently explained is appropriate for executive session under Purpose 1, the 
Committee described the actual discussions that it engaged in during the executive session 
meeting on September 20; included sufficient information from which the public could conclude 
that the topic was appropriate for executive session; and therefore sufficiently advised the public 
of the anticipated discussion.   
 
The complaint further alleges that the Committee failed to conduct a roll call vote prior to 
conveni
ng in executive session on September 20.  After reviewing a video recording of the 
September 20 meeting, we agree and find that the vote by the Committee to convene in executive 
session was not conducted by roll call.  Rather, members simply raised their hands after Chair 
Moriarty made the motion to convene in executive session and asked if the members were in 
favor of that motion.  This was a violation of the Open Meeting Law as the law specifically 
requires that the vote of each member to enter executive session be by roll call.  See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21 (b).  Moreover, we find that the Committee should not have amended the minutes of the 
September 20 meeting to reflect that the vote was recorded by roll call.  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that a public body create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings setting forth a 
summary of the discussions on each subject and the decisions made and the actions taken at each 
meeting, including the record of all votes.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  To be “accurate,” meeting 
minutes must accurately reflect the discussions that took place during a meeting.  See OML 
2020-62.  Because the minutes must accurately capture the discussions and actions that actually 
took place, it is inappropriate to include information in meeting minutes that was not discussed 
or did not occur at a meeting.  See OML 2021-128.  We order the Committee to revise the open 
session minutes to reflect the vote to convene in executive session as it actually occurred during 
the September 20 meeting. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
We find that the Committee v iolated the Open Meeting Law by failing to conduct a roll 
call vote prior to convening in executive session.  We order the Committee to revise the 
September 20 open session meeting minutes to accurately reflect the vote to convene in 
executive session and certify to this office within thirty (30) days of the date of this letter that it 
has done so.  See 940 C.M.R. 29.07(4).  We also order the Committee’s immediate and future 
compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law.    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
        
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:   David Palmer – By email only:  
 Belmont School Committee – By email only: sc@belmontschools.net 
 Belmont Town Clerk – By email only: ecushman@belmont-ma.gov 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
