===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONEASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
February 10, 2016 
OML 2016-19 
John Manning, Chair 
Rowley Board of Water Commissioners 
401 Central Street, P.O. Box 29 
Rowley, MA 01969 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Dear Chair Manning: 
This office received a complaint from Karen Summitt, dated October 26, 2015, alleging 
that the Rowley Board of Water Commissioners (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 23, 
2015, and, after being contacted by our office, the Board responded to the complaint on October 
30, 2015. In her complaint, Ms. Summitt alleges that the Board Chair engaged in improper 
deliberation by e-mail. 
Following our review, we find that two e-mails sent by former Board Chair Timothy 
Toomey violated the Open Meeting Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the 
complaint; the Board's response; and the request for further review filed with our office. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body, thus two 
members constitute a quorum. During the time period relevant to this complaint, the Board 
Chair was Timothy Toomey.1 The Board held a meeting on September 18, 2015. During this 
meeting, the complainant, who also served as Town Treasurer, made statements critical of the 
Board. On September 23, 2015, Chair Toomey sent an e-mail to the complainant, copying the 
two other Board members. The text of the e-mail is as follows: 
Ms. Summitt, 
Your disingenuous propaganda is misplaced. Please understand that a public retraction 
is needed immediately for your statement presented at our 9/18/15 meeting. I refer you to 
1 Because Mr. Toomey was Chair during the relevant time period, we refer to him as "Chair Toomey" in this letter. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
the Water Department regulation of 2013 attached. Water department functions under 
both chapter 11 and 41 69B. 
Please immediately send to the water commissioners attention at this office all expenses 
paid thru your treasurers' department from the time Marybeth Wiser was appointed 
superintendent. Please include the labor from your office over that period to fill in for 
the administrative assistant as well as credit card charges. We will be seeking a full 
financial audit of the Department. Your immediate cooperation is anticipated. 
Thank you, 
Timothy Toomey RWB 
It does not appear that anyone responded to this e-mail. On September 24, 2015, the 
following day. Chair Toomey sent a second e-mail to the complainant and the two other Board 
members, this time also copying the Town Administrator. This second e-mail forwarded the text 
of the first and stated, "Please respond, second request." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post a notice of any meeting at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A meeting is defined as "a deliberation by a 
public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
Deliberation is defined in relevant part as, "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction." Id, For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is 
generally a simple majority of the members of the public body. Id. Communication on matters 
within a body's jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no other 
public body member responds. See OML 2014-148; OML 2013-29; OML 2013-27; OML 2012-
15.2 
Here, we find that Chair Toomey violated the Open Meeting Law by sending both the 
September 23 and 24, 2015 e-mails. The initial e-mail concerned a matter within the Board's 
jurisdiction—that is, a request for documentation as part of an investigation conducted by the 
Board—and a quorum of the Board was copied on the e-mail. This constituted deliberation, 
therefore the discussion should have taken place during a meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-
(b), 21. By sending the latter e-mail, which included the text of the first e-mail. Chair Toomey 
further communicated to a quorum of the Board on matters within its jurisdiction. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 18 (defining "deliberation"). This, too, violated the Open meeting Law. Because it does 
not appear that any Board member responded to either e-mail, we find that this was an individual 
violation of the law, rather than a violation by the Board as a whole. See OML 2015-33; OML 
2014-148. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that former Board Chair Timothy Toomey violated 
the Open Meeting Law, We order Mr. Toomey's immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law. We also order that the Board release to the public, within 30 days 
following receipt of this letter, the two e-mails referenced herein. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Karen Summitt 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 