===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.rnass.gov/ago  
November 14, 2011 
OML 2011 - 48 
Dr. Vanessa C. Beauchaine 
194 Boylston Street 
Brookline, MA 02445 
Dear Dr. Beauchaine: 
Our office has reviewed a complaint filed by Scott Murphy (the "complainant"), 
dated June 1, 2011, alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, 
by the Runlde School Council (the "Council"). The complaint alleges that the Council's 
meeting minutes "are not always available...or made available timely upon request 
and/or for a reasonable period of time after meetings are held," and that those minutes 
"do not always reflect a comprehensible and/or accurate view of business addressed." 
The complainant makes several other allegations regarding the Council's operations that 
do not pertain to the Open Meeting Law, and therefore will not be addressed by this 
letter. The complainant filed his complaint with the Council on March 31, 2011, singling 
out the Council's March 3, 2011 meeting as illustrative of the Council's ongoing Open 
Meeting Law violations. The Council responded by letter on April 15, 2011. 
In making our determination, we reviewed the March 31, 2011 complaint, and the 
Council's April 15, 2011 response. We also reviewed the Council's minutes for the 
March 3, 2011 meeting, as well as minutes from the April 16, 2009; December 14, 2010; 
January 6, 2011; March 22, 2011; April 5, 2011; April 28, 2011; May 12, 2011; and June 
14, 2011 meetings. 
The complainant identifies only the Council's March 3, 2011 meeting as an 
instance of alleged Open Meeting Law violations. The complaint does not identify 
specific violations that allegedly occurred on March 3, 2011, however. Nevertheless, our 
review of this matter revealed violations by the Council at the meeting, such as failure to 
list topics in meeting notices. We conclude, therefore, that the Council violated the Open 
Meeting Law. 
1 
CIP 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
The complainant draws attention to a litany of actions by the Council to which he 
objects. Of the objections the complainant raises, the only alleged Open Meeting Law 
violations are that the Council's meeting minutes are not readily available and not 
adequately descriptive. Specifically, the complainant writes that the Council's minutes 
"are not always available to the school community, or made available timely upon 
request and/or for a reasonable period of time after meetings are held." The complainant 
also alleges that the Council's meeting minutes "do not always reflect a comprehensive 
and/or accurate view of the business addressed." 
This complaint was filed in response to a Council meeting held on March 3, 2011. 
The complaint, however, does not allege that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law 
at that meeting. Instead, the complaint's allegations of Open Meeting Law violations 
pertain generally to the Council's insufficient meeting minutes. 
While not acknowledging any specific deficiencies in its minutes, the Council 
responded to the complaint by pledging to include "summar[ies] of council discussions 
on each subject" in the minutes and that the minutes will "continue to be posted in a 
timely manner" and "within ten days of the meeting date." The Council also pledged to 
reconsider 14 motions originally made on March 3, 2011...as part of the agenda of the 
next scheduled school council meeting." 
Aside from the complainant's allegations, the Council acknowledged it held four 
meetings between October 5, 2010 and January 6, 2011 without first posting the complete 
listing of topics to be discussed in the meeting notices. The Council has indicated that it 
intends to file all future meeting notices and agendas with the Brookline Town Clerk, in 
addition to posting those materials on the Runkle School website. 
DISCUSSION 
As the Runkle School Council is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, 
and has acknowledged a lack of full compliance with the law, we find an analysis of the 
Council's missteps worthy of discussion. 
The complaint alleges that the Council produced deficient meeting minutes, 
though it does not identify specific occurrences. The complaint, instead, alleges that the 
Council's minutes are "not always available" and "not always...accurate." Due to the 
general nature of the complainant's allegations, we have reviewed a sampling of the 
Council's meeting minutes before and after March 3, 2011 to consider the validity of the 
complainant's relevant Open Meeting Law allegations. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The Council is required by the Open Meeting Law to "create and maintain 
accurate minutes of all meetings...setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and 
other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each 
meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Furthermore, 
"[m]inutes of all open sessions...shall be created and approved in a timely manner" and 
"shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 days." G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(c). 
Although the Council does not agree with the complainant's characterization of 
its minutes as "not...accurate," the Council's response to the complaint does pledge a 
commitment to a more "refined" format for its minutes beginning after March 3, 2011. 
Upon review, it appears that the Council has generally been in compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law's minutes requirements. Nevertheless, certain requirements, like the 
inclusion of the meeting "place," have not been consistently included in the Council's 
minutes. For instance, the meeting location is identified in the minutes for April 5, 2011 
and May 12, 2011, but not for those meetings on April 28, 2011 and June 14, 2011. 
Furthermore, a record of "absent" members was not included in the Council's minutes 
prior to April 5, 2011. Although these omissions might appear to be inconsequential 
oversights, they illustrate the Council's failure to consistently adhere to the minimum 
requirements set forth in G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
In the period since the complainant's allegations, the Council appears to have 
made improvements to its meeting minutes which will make the Council's actions more 
accessible to the public. This is particularly evident in the Council's commitment to 
publishing its meeting minutes on the Runkle School website within ten days of a 
meeting. 
Moreover, the Council demonstrated a laudable commitment to transparency by 
vowing to revisit its motions from the March 3, 2011 meeting, and subsequently re-
voting on those issues at the April 28, 2011 meeting. 
As the Council has volunteered information regarding incomplete meeting notices 
from October 5, 2010 to January 6, 2011, we take this opportunity to remind the Council 
that meeting notices require "the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b); see 940 CMR 29.03. Furthermore, meeting notices "shall be filed with the 
municipal clerk and posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in 
or on the municipal building in which the clerk's office is located." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c). 
Because the violations appear to have been remedied by the Council, we see no need to 
impose penalties, and commend the Council's voluntary disclosure of these violations in 
response to the Complaint. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Council's admitted failure to publish complete meeting notices, 
including anticipated agendas, in advance of meetings between October 5, 2010 and 
January 6, 2011, constituted four separate violations of the Open Meeting Law. We do 
not address the complaint's allegations that do not implicate the Open Meeting Law. 
We believe that the Council addressed most of the complaint's relevant 
allegations by providing in its minutes the "place" of the meetings and those members 
absent from the meetings, while pledging to continue providing summaries of the 
discussions that take place in its meetings. We applaud the Council's renewed 
commitment to posting its minutes online within ten days of a meeting, even though 
publishing minutes is not required by the Open Meeting Law. Moreover, the Council's 
decision to reconsider the motions from March 3, 2011, and rehear the complainant's 
concerns from April 16, 2009, demonstrate a commitment to providing concerned 
citizens with open and transparent government. For those these reasons, we believe the 
Council's violations have been sufficiently remedied. While we do not order any 
penalties, we caution the Council that future similar violations may be found to be 
intentional. 
We now consider this complaint resolved and this matter closed. Please contact 
me if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
cc: Scott Murphy 
cc: Runkle School Council 
4 