===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
October 10, 2017 
OML 2017-157 
Paul Materazzo, Director of Planning and Economic Development 
Andover Planning Board 
36 Bartlet Street 
Andover, MA 01810 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Materazzo: 
This office received a complaint from Stacey Albuquerque, dated September 12, alleging 
that the Andover Planning Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 2, and the Board 
responded by an undated letter sent on or around August 9. In her complaint, Ms. Albuquerque 
alleges that the Board failed to approve its meeting minutes in a timely manner.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law with 
respect to certain meeting minutes. However, other meeting minutes referenced in the complaint 
were approved in a timely manner. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the Board's response, and the request for further review filed with our office. 
The Board is a six-member public body that typically meets twice per month. The 
complaint alleges that the Board failed to approve the minutes of several meetings in a timely 
manner. First, the complaint lists several sets of minutes that were approved prior to the date the 
complaint was filed. The Board held meetings on January 10 and 24, February 14 and 28, and 
March 29. The Board approved the minutes of the January 10 meeting during a meeting held on 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 To the extent that the complaint also alleges that the Board failed to post its minutes to a website, we note that the 
Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to post minutes to a website. See OML 2016-17. Open Meeting 
Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's Website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. We note 
further that, effective January 1, the Supervisor of Records within the Office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth 
requires that a municipal public records officer, to the extent feasible, post commonly available public record 
documents on a municipal website. See 950 CMR 32.04(5)(g). For assistance complying with the requirements of 
the Public Records Law, the Board may contact the Supervisor of Records. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
April 25. The Board approved the minutes if the January 24 and February 14 meetings during a 
meeting held on May 23. The Board approved the minutes of the February 28 and March 29 
meetings during a meeting held on June 13. 
The complaint also concerns several sets of minutes that were not approved at the time 
the complaint was filed. These were the minutes of Board meetings held on April 11 and 25, 
May 2 and 23, and June 23 and 27. The Board held one meeting in July, on July 11. The present 
complaint was filed with the Board on August 2. The Board held a meeting on August 8, during 
it which it approved the minutes of the April 11 and 25, May 2 and 23, and June 23 and 27 
meetings. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes must be reviewed 
and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). Although the Open Meeting Law does 
not define "timely manner," we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next 
meeting, whenever possible. See OML 2014-15; OML 2012-91.3 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Board did not approve the minutes at issue in a 
timely manner. For bodies that meet regularly, such as weekly or bi-monthly, we have 
concluded that a delay of two to three months in approving minutes does not comply with the 
law. See OML 2013-31. Because the Board met twice per month between January and July, we 
find that the Board had ample time to approve the minutes of the January 10 and 24, February 24 
and 28, and March 29 meetings, and they were therefore not approved in a timely manner. See 
2016-62. With respect to the June 23 and 27 meetings, the Board approved them within two 
months, and we therefore find that the Board approved the minutes in a timely manner. 
Likewise, we find that the minutes of the May 2 and 23 meetings were approved in a timely 
manner. While the Board typically met twice per month throughout the year, it only met once in 
July. Because the Board did not meet regularly during July, we find that it was permissible for 
the Board to approve the May 2 and 23 minutes during the August 8 meeting. See OML 2017-
153 (where a public body meets weekly or bi-monthly, it has met regularly and a delay of two to 
three months exceeds the limits of the Open Meeting Law). With respect to the April 11 and 25 
minutes, because the Board had approximately five to six opportunities over a four-month period 
to approve the minutes, we find that the Board did not approve them in a timely manner. See 
OML 2017-133. However, we note that the minutes have now been approved, and we credit the 
Board for taking this remedial action in response to the present complaint. 
3 The revised Open Meeting Law regulations, which took effect on October 6, require a public body to approve 
minutes within 30 days, or within three meetings, whichever is longer. 940 CMR 29.11(2). Because the revised 
regulations were not in effect at the time the events described in this letter took place, they do not weigh in our 
review of this complaint. Rather, we note the revised requirements for the Board's compliance going forward. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution 
that similar future violations may be consider evidence of intent to violate the law. Because all 
minutes referenced in the complaint have now been approved, we order no additional relief. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Stacey Albuquerque 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 