===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
 
       November 17 , 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 197 
 
 
Ron Aponte 
Town Administrator 
6 Central Street 
Brookfield, MA 01506  
 
By email only: townadministrator@brookfieldma.us  
 
 RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Mr. Aponte: 
 
This office received four complaints from Christopher Kelleher between August 7, 2025, 
and September 30, 2025, alleging that the Brookfield Board of Health (“Board”), Brookfield 
Advisory Committee (the “Committee”), and Brookfield Selectboard (“Selectboard”) violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1  Two complaints were originally filed with the 
Board on or about June 9 and July 3, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by separate 
letters dated June 26 and July 28, respectively.
2  The third and fourth complaints were originally 
filed with the Committee and Selectboard on or about July 3, and you responded, on behalf of 
the Committee and Selectboard, by separate letters dated July 28 and July 30, respectively, 
following extensions of time granted by this office.  Collectively, the four complaints allege that 
the Board, Committee, and Selectboard violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to provide the 
complainant with access to meetings that is compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board, Committee, and Selectboard violated the 
Open Meeting Law in the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaints, the public bodies’ responses to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our 
office requesting further review.  In addition, we reviewed relevant notices and minutes of  
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2025. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
meetings held by the Board, Committee, and Selectboard between April 7 and July 2, as well as a 
May 12 email sent by the complainant to Town Administrator Ron Aponte.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On May 12, the complainant emailed Town Administrator 
Ron Aponte at townadministrator@brookfieldma.us requesting “reasonable accommodations 
under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), 42 U.S.C. § 12101.”  Specifically, the 
complainant requested i) remote access to all meetings of the Select Board, Advisory Committee, 
Cable Advisory Committee, Conservation Commission and Board of Health; ii) that links to 
meetings be provided at least 24 hours in advance; iii) that he be admitted to remote meetings at 
least five minutes prior to the start of each meeting; and iv) that meetings be audio or video 
recorded and provided to the complainant within three business days of the meeting.  The Town 
Administrator did not respond to this email. 
 
The Board posted notices for meetings to be held on May 28 and June 25 at 6:00 P.M.
3  
The notices listed the location of both meetings as the Banquet Hall in Town Hall at 6 Central 
Street.  The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on June 24 at 7:00 PM.  The notice 
listed the location of the meeting as the Police Station Meeting Room at 7 Prouty Street.  The 
Selectboard posted notices for meetings to be held on June 17 and June 24, at 7:00 P.M. and on 
July 2 at 7:15 P.M.  The notices of the June 17 and June 24 meetings listed the location of the 
meetings as the Banquet Hall in Town Hall, while the notice of the July 2 meeting listed the 
location of the meeting as the Police Station Meeting Room.   
 
The notices for the Board meetings held on May 28 and June 25 included the following 
statement: 
 
Meeting Accommodations: Reasonable accommodations for people with 
disabilities are available upon request. When making such a request, please 
include a description of the accommodation that you will need, including as much 
detail as possible, along with your contact information. Email requests to: 
townadministrator@brookfieldma.us
 or call 508-867-2930 x 14. In order to meet 
your request, please provide at least 48 hours’ notice prior to the date that the 
accommodation is needed. Although every attempt will be made to provide the 
accommodation with less than 48 hours may not be possible. 
 
 
3 The complaint alleges that the Board also failed to provide access to an April 7 meeting that was ADA compliant.  
Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the 
alleged violation.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b).  If the alleged violation could not reasonably have been known at the time it 
occurred, then the complaint must be filed within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered.  
940 CMR 29.05(3).  When an alleged violation occurs during an open meeting, the alleged violation is reasonably 
discoverable at the time it occurs.  See OML 2014-85; OML 2012-52.  Here, the April 7 meeting was held in open 
session and allegations regarding whether the meeting was accessible and whether the Board recorded the meeting 
could reasonably have been discovered at that time.  Where the complaint was not filed until two months later on 
June 9, we find this allegation to be untimely and decline to review it.  See OML Declination 2-1-17 (West 
Bridgewater Commission of Water Commissioners); OML Declination 11-21-16 (Middleton Planning 
Commission); OML Declination 12-15-14 (Ware Conservation Commission).   
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The notices for the Selectboard meetings held on June 17 and June 24 included the following 
statement: 
 
Meeting Accommodations: Reasonable accommodations for people with 
disabilities are available upon request. When making such a request, please 
include a description of the accommodation that you will need, including as much 
detail as possible, along with your contact information. Email requests to: 
selectmen@brookfieldma.us
, or call 508-867-2930 x 10. In order to meet your 
request, please provide at least 48 hours’ notice prior to the date that the 
accommodation is needed. Although every attempt will be made to provide the 
accommodation with less than 48 hours may not be possible. 
 
The notices for the Committee meeting held on June 24 and the Selectboard meeting held on July 
2 did not contain any statement about requesting a reasonable accommodation.
4   
 
The meetings of the Board, Committee, and Selectboard were all held as planned.  For 
the six meetings at issue here, each meeting was held in the physical meeting location listed on 
the notices and the complainant was not provided with a link to access the meetings remotely.  In 
addition, the May 28 and June 25 meetings of the Board, and the June 24 meeting of the 
Committee were not recorded but the three Selectboard meetings held on June 17, June 24 and 
July 2 were video recorded.
5  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement that meetings of public bodies be 
open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except when meeting in executive 
session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public”).  Generally, access to a 
meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present as well as to see and hear what is 
being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2020-100; OML 2014-3; OML 
2013-189.6  For a meeting to be truly “open to the public,” it must be accessible to people with 
disabilities.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); see also OML 2023-43; OML 2020-47; OML 2015-38; 
OML 2012-49.  We have explained, as a baseline, that meetings of public bodies that are held in 
person must be held in ADA-compliant locations, even in the absence of any particular request 
or known accessibility need.  See, e.g., OML 2024-130 (explaining that public body violated the 
Open Meeting Law when meeting was held in a non-ADA compliant location, even though there 
is no evidence any person was unable to attend as a result); OML 2023-43 (same).  However, 
Title II of the ADA requires that municipal services, including public meetings, be made 
accessible to people with disabilities, and therefore additional reasonable accommodations must 
be provided upon request to people with disabilities.  See 42 U.S.C. §§ 12131-12165 (1990); 
 
4 Although these two notices did not include a statement on how to request a reasonable accommodation, we note 
that the municipal website, https://www.brookfieldma.us/, contains a link to “Request ADA Accommodations.” 
5 Video recordings of the Selectboard meetings held on June 17, June 24 and July 2 are available at 
https://www.youtube.com/@brookfieldcommunityarena/videos.  
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-open-
meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
OML 2014-109; OML 2012-49.  Therefore, we interpret the Open Meeting Law as requiring 
public bodies to hold meetings that are consistent with the requirements of the ADA. 
 
The Massachusetts Office on Disability explains in a guidance memorandum that “Upon 
receipt of a request for reasonable accommodation, a town must engage in the interactive process 
with the requestor to determine the most appropriate method for accommodating the requestor’s 
needs . . . .  The goal of the interactive process is to arrive at an accommodation that is feasible 
for the town and effective at providing access for the person with a disability.  The town is not 
required to provide precisely the accommodation that the requestor asked for, but they must 
engage in the interactive process and attempt to arrive at a solution that will meet the person’s 
needs.”  See https://www.mass.gov/news/memo-reasonable-accommodations-at-town-meetings
; 
see also 29 C.F.R. § 1630.2(o)(3) (to determine the appropriate reasonable accommodation it 
may be necessary to initiate an informal, interactive process with the individual with a disability 
in need of the accommodation). 
 
Here, the complainant emailed the Town Administrator on May 12 and requested remote 
access to Board, Committee and Selectboard meetings as a reasonable accommodation of a 
disability under the ADA.  In response to the complaints at issue here, the Town Administrator 
acknowledged that he received the complainant’s May 12 email, stated that the “demands” in the 
email were unreasonable, and explained that the complainant “must follow the instructions that 
are available on the meeting notice for each meeting that [he] plan[s] to attend.”  We find that the 
complainant requested an accommodation on the basis of a disability prior to the six meetings at 
issue here and that neither the Town nor the Board, Committee, or Selectboard responded to the 
request or engaged in any interactive process with the complainant to determine an appropriate 
accommodation.  See OML 2014-109.  By altogether failing to respond to or engage with the 
complainant in response to his request on May 12, and failing to make reasonable efforts to 
ensure the meetings would be accessible to the complainant, we find that the Board, Committee, 
and Selectboard violated the Open Meeting Law.   
 
In reaching this determination, we offer no opinion as to the reasonableness of the 
complainant’s particular accommodation requests in light of his particular needs, nor do we find 
that any accommodation was required.  See 28 C.F.R. § 35.130(7)(i) (public entity shall make 
reasonable modifications in policies, practices, or procedures when the modifications are 
necessary to avoid discrimination on the basis of disability, unless the public entity can 
demonstrate that making the modifications would fundamentally alter the nature of the service, 
program, or activity).   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board, Committee, and Selectboard 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to ensure their meetings were accessible to the public.  
We order the Board’s, Committee’s, and Selectboard’s immediate and future compliance with 
the law’s requirements and we caution that similar future violations could be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board, Committee, or Selectboard.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
 
        Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  Christopher Kelleher – By email only: chris@brookfieldexaminer.com  
Brookfield Board of Health – By email only: boardofhealth@brookfieldma.us  
Brookfield Advisory Committee c/o Brookfield Selectboard – By email only: 
selectmen@brookfieldma.us 
 Brookfield Selectboard – By email only: selectmen@brookfieldma.us 
Brookfield Town Clerk Michael Seery – By email only:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
