===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
March 25, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 40 
 
 
Donald Coburn 
Chair, Select Board 
Town of Monterey 
435 Main Road, P.O. Box 308 
Monterey, MA 01245 
 
By email only:  
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Coburn: 
 
This office received a complaint from Jeremy Rawitz on March 3, 2021, alleging that the 
Monterey Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on January 6, and you responded, on behalf of 
the Board, by letter dated January 7.  The complaint alleges that the Board i) amended its notice 
by adding a topic within 48 hours of its January 6 meeting; ii) failed to provide notice to the 
complainant that he would be discussed during the January 6 meeting; and iii) discussed the 
reputation and character of and complaints against an individual during open session rather than 
in executive session.2   
 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 
2 The complaint also alleges that “the town secretary called a state agency without getting a vote approved by the” 
Board.  The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  Even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law and we therefore 
decline to review it.  See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners); OML 
Declination 5-21-12 (Hampden-Wilbraham Regional School Committee).  Moreover, the “town secretary” is not a 
member of the Board and therefore not subject to the Open Meeting Law as the Law only applies to public bodies 
and individuals acting as public body members.  See OML Declination 4-13-20 (Town of Plymouth).  We offer no 
opinion on whether any actions taken by the “town secretary” could be a violation of some other law or regulation 
outside the scope of the Division’s review.    
 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Board’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review.  We also reviewed the original and revised notices, as well as the open session minutes, 
of the Board meeting held on January 6.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The complainant is the Chair of the Conservation 
Commission (the “Commission”) in the Town of Monterey.  Members of the Commission, as 
well as the Commission Agent, are appointed by the Board.    
 
On January 4 at 8:19 A.M., the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
Wednesday, January 6 at 6:00 P.M.  The notice listed three main topics, which were a joint 
meeting with the Finance Committee to discuss the preliminary budget, a hearing regarding Fiber 
Connect’s request to place poles and cables at Bear Mountain and Royal Hemlock Roads, and 
“Administrative.”  Under the Administrative topic, the notice listed 13 sub-topics.   
 
On January 5 at 2:32 P.M., the Board amended the notice to include one additional matter 
under the Administrative topic, which was “Status of Conservation Commission Agent and Chair 
of the Conservation Commission.”  According to Board Chair Donald Coburn, he “was 
somewhat aware of the problem between” the complainant and the Commission Agent before the 
notice was published but “was not planning to bring the matter to the attention of the Select 
Board at the January 6, 2021, meeting.”  However, on the morning of January 5, Chair Coburn 
“read an exchange of emails indicating that [the complainant was] actively involved in trying to 
replace the ConCom Agent” and that the “Agent was concerned about losing her job.”  
Consequently, Chair Coburn “decided to add this matter to the January 6 Select Board agenda.” 
  
The January 6 meeting was held as planned and the Board discussed potential issues 
between the Commission Agent and the complainant, although no specific complaints had been 
brought to the Board’s attention.  The Board discussed possible solutions to resolve any issues, 
including designating one member of the Board to speak with the complainant to determine the 
exact issue and courses of action forward or requesting that the complainant resign.  The Board 
then discussed whether the Commission Agent was a town employee or a consultant and 
eventually voted, by majority vote, to request that the Town’s legal counsel provide a written 
opinion regarding the employment status of the Commission Agent and to “assist with a path 
toward reconciliation.”  
  
DISCUSSION 
 
Except in an emergency, the Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of 
every meeting “at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Every notice must include “the date, time and place of such 
meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.”  Id.  A public body may amend a notice within 48 hours of a meeting if a previously 
unanticipated topic comes to the Chair’s attention.  See 940 CMR 29.03(1)(d); OML 2020-29; 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
OML 2019-131.3  Although a Chair generally may be aware that a discussion is ongoing, the 
Open Meeting Law only requires the meeting notice to contain the topics the Chair reasonably 
anticipates discussing at the particular meeting for which the notice is posted. See OML 2018-
159.  
 
The Open Meeting Law also requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in 
an open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law.  G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a).  However, the Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to meet in 
executive session but rather, if a public body chooses to meet in executive session, it must do so 
only for one of the enumerated purposes.  One executive session purpose allows a public body to 
enter executive session “to discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, 
rather than professional competence of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, 
or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or 
individual.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1).  If a public body chooses to convene in executive session 
under Purpose 1, the body must notify the individual in writing at least 48 hours prior to the 
proposed executive session and afford the person certain rights.  Id.  
 
Here, the Board held a meeting on January 6 and discussed potential issues between the 
Commission Agent and the complainant in open session.  Chair Coburn did not anticipate 
discussing this matter until January 5 when he “read an exchange of emails” indicating that the 
complainant may be trying to replace the Commission Agent and that the “Agent was concerned 
about losing her job.”  The Board thereafter amended the January 6 meeting notice and included 
a topic to discuss the “Status of Conservation Commission Agent and Chair of the Conservation 
Commission.”  Since Chair Coburn only learned the day before the January 6 meeting that this 
was a concern needing attention, we find that the Chair did not reasonably anticipate this topic 
48 hours in advance.  As such, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
amending the January 6 notice within 48 hours of the meeting.  See OML 2020-53.  In fact, 
although the Board could have discussed the unanticipated topics without adding them to the 
meeting notice at all, the Board followed our recommended best practice of amending its 
meeting notice to include topics that arise fewer than 48 hours before a meeting, so that members 
of the public are given advance notice of agenda items.  See OML 2015-111; OML 2015-76. 
 
During the January 6 meeting, the Board discussed potential issues between the 
complainant and the Commission Agent and suggested that one solution could be for the 
complainant to resign as a member of the Commission.  Even if these discussions related to the 
complainant’s reputation or character, or to complaints brought against him, the Board was not 
required to have such discussions in executive session and the subject of the discussion has no 
right under the Open Meeting Law to demand that the Board do so.  See OML 2019-160; OML 
2012-32.  Moreover, if a public body chooses to hold such a discussion in open session, there is 
no requirement that the individual who is the subject of the discussion be given notice.  See 
OML 2014-123.  Because the discussions occurred in open session, the Board was not required 
to provide the complainant with individual advance notice that he would be discussed.  See OML 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
2014-123.  Although we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law, we 
encourage public bodies, whenever possible, to give notice to individuals who will be discussed 
during open meetings.  See OML 2012-85; OML 2012-32. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
       Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:   Jeremy Rawitz – By email only:  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
