===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 28, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 234 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Huntley Harrison 
Town of Chatham  
Airport Commission 
549 Main Street 
Chatham, MA 02633 
 
airportcommission@chatham-ma.gov 
     
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Harrison:  
 
On November 15, 2023, this office received a complaint from David Bixby, alleging that 
the Chatham Airport Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on October 14.
1  You 
responded on behalf of the Commission by letter dated October 25.  The complainant alleges that 
notice of the Commission’s October 11 meeting was insufficiently specific as it did not reference 
an email that the complainant sent to the Commission on October 10.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint, the response 
to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed the notice 
and the minutes of the October 11 meeting.   
 
FACTS 
  
We find the facts as follows.  On Se ptember 15, the Commission posted notice of its 
October 11 meeting.  On October 5, the Commission posted an amended notice.  On October 10, 
David Bixby sent an email to the Commission regarding a Pilatus PC12 airplane that flew close 
to his house that morning.  He stated: “This is at least the third time this year that I have 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2023. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
observed what appears to me as encroachments of aircraft in an unsafe manner through departure 
airspace. I suspect that FAA rules and policies discourage if not outright forbid aircraft from 
unsafely encroaching into the airspace used by departing aircraft.”  He suggested an investigation 
and that any possible infraction be reported to MassDOT.  He also asked whether the pilot 
purchased fuel at the Airport Manager’s fuel truck and alluded to a possible conflict of interest 
on the part of the Manager.   
 
The Commission met as scheduled on October 11.  Mr. Bixby attended the October 11 
meeting and spoke during both the “public announcements” and “public comments” portions of 
the meeting.  During his public comments, he referenced letters he had written to the 
Commission, estimated at 50 in number, and asked that they be attached to the minutes or to the 
meeting package, so that they would be part of the public record.   
 
During the Commissioner Reports section of the meeting, Commissioner Michael Geylin 
raised the subject of Mr. Bixby’s October 10 e-mail.  He corrected Mr. Bixby’s description of the 
airplane, noting that it was a “SOCATA TBM turboprop.”  Commissioner Geylin opined that the 
Airport Manager should only report incidents he personally observed.  He stated that the pilot did 
not purchase fuel at the airport, in response to the Mr. Bixby’s email inquiry, and denied any 
conflict of interest or ethical violation on the part of the Airport Manager.  Other Commissioners 
agreed with Commissioner Geylin’s assessment and briefly discussed management of the airport 
generally.  
 
DISCUSSION 
  
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's 
discussion.  See OML 2015- 35; OML 2019-134.2  We have previously stated that the Open 
Meeting Law requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public 
can make an informed decision whether to attend the meeting to observe the discussion regarding 
a topic of interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22; OML 2015-74.  A public 
body need not list each and every detail about a topic in order to comply with the Law's 
requirements.  See OML 2022-98; OML 2020-132; OML 2019-134.  Likewise, the Open 
Meeting Law does not require public bodies to list all tangential topics related to a discussion nor 
does the law require a public body to anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of a 
discussion, only that it identify the discussion topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
The email that is the subject of Mr. Bixby’s complaint was sent less than 48 hours prior 
to the October 11 meeting.  Therefore, as the Commission notes in its response, the email arrived 
too late for the Chair to have reasonably anticipated discussing 48 hours in advance of the 
meeting.  Compare OML 2022-174 (Based on planned formal presentation with panel of 
speakers, chair anticipated discussion of name change from Columbus Day to Indigenous 
People’s Day on school calendar.).  We find that the Board permissibly discussed the letter and 
the concerns raised therein during its October 11 meeting.   
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law in the ways alleged.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this 
determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may 
be pending with our office or the Commission.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 
963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
 
   
Matt
hew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
  
cc: David Bixby (via e- mail: )  
 Chatham Town Clerk (via e- mail:  jsmith@chatham-ma.gov) 
 Principal Projects and Operations Administrator (via email: twhalen@chatham-ma.gov) 
  
  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
 
