===PAGE 1===
   
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF TI-EE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
May 25, 2011 
OML 2011- 20 
Suzanne Egan, Esq. 
General Counsel 
City of Gloucester 
City Hall 
9 Dale Avenue 
Gloucester, MA 01930 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Egan, 
This office received a complaint filed by M. Sunny Robinson, dated January 25, 2011, 
alleging that the Gloucester City Council Planning and Development Committee (the 
"Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint 
specifically questions whether, "members of the Planning [and] Development Committee plus 
the City Solicitor [sat] together in private, when the meeting should have been in public, to 
rewrite a proposed zoning amendment." The complaint was originally filed with the Committee 
on or about December 7, 2010. We received the Committee's response to the original complaint 
on or about January 6, 2010. 
We find no evidence that members of the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
meeting outside of an open meeting to draft a zoning amendment. We do, however, find that an 
email communication between members of a quorum of the Committee regarding the zoning 
amendment was a deliberation in violation of the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the December 7, 2010 and January 25, 2011 complaints, and the 
Committee's January 6, 2011 response. We reviewed the minutes of the November 17, 2010, 
December 6, 2010, and January 5, 2011 Committee meetings. We also reviewed emails 
I  The complaint raises a second allegation regarding the, "[a]ppropriateness of a Committee of [the] City Council or 
city staff aligning themselves with a developer prior to a thorough and complete public review of a zoning 
amendment." Because this portion of the complaint does not allege a violation of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25, we decline to address it. 
===PAGE 2===
provided by the Committee in response to a document request by our office, as well as a cover 
letter from you, dated March 1, 2011. Finally, we interviewed you and Committee Chair Joseph 
Ciolino via telephone on March 29, 2011. 
FACTS 
At an open meeting on June 16, 2010, a developer proposed a zoning amendment 
regarding the Birdseye Mixed-Use Overlay District to the Gloucester City Council Planning and 
Development Committee. According to Councilor Ciolino, after several open meetings with the 
Committee and the developer, Councilor Ciolino asked the developer to present the Committee 
with a simpler proposal than the one first presented. The developer came back to the Committee 
with a proposal that Councilor Ciolino felt was still too complicated, and that could be subject to 
legal challenge. Councilor Ciolino then asked you to review and redraft the proposed zoning 
amendment. During the March 29 phone interview, you stated that Committee members 
individually offered you their opinions regarding the amendment and that you gave general 
guidance, but at no time did you facilitate a serial communication between members of the 
Committee. 
On November 15, 2010, Gloucester City Clerk Linda Lowe emailed a copy of the revised 
Birdseye Mixed-Use Overlay District to the Committee members for review at their November 
17, 2010 open meeting. Councilor Robert Whynott responded to Clerk Lowe stating in an email, 
"I can not believe that this ordinance is legal as written." 
Councilor Ciolino then responded to Councilor Whynott in a November 15, 2010 email, 
stating, "Bob, this document is not new just revised, that's the way it has been presented from the 
very beginning. I believe now you understand why Birdseye has been so controversial." 
Councilor Whynott responded to Councilor Ciolino in a November 15, 2010 email, writing, "Joe, 
I have never seen it as an ordinance with a number and Birdseye in the heading. It WILL cause a 
problem." (emphasis in original). Councilor Ciolino responded in an email the same day, stating 
"Understood Bob...Good question for [Developer's Attorney] Lisa Mead." 
The Committee has three members, thus two members constitute a quorum. The 
Councilors insist that there were no other communications between or among a quorum of 
Committee members regarding the zoning amendment prior to the November 17, 2010 open 
meeting. 
At its November 17, 2010 meeting, the Committee considered the zoning amendment for 
recommendation to the full Gloucester City Council and the Planning Board. After a 
presentation by the developer, a discussion among Committee members, and comments from the 
public, the Committee continued the proposal to the December 6, 2010 meeting, at which time 
the Committee voted 3 to 0 in favor of recommending to the City Council, "that the Gloucester 
Zoning Ordinance be amended by adding Section 5.25 Mixed Use Overlay District and that 
Section 5.25 Mixed Use Overlay District be referred to the Planning Board for their review." 
===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge,  376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is properly 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)—(b), 21. The Open Meeting Law defmes a "meeting" as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is defmed as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting [materials] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a 
meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. 
We have found no evidence in our review of the Committee's communications to suggest 
that the Committee members met or communicated outside of an open meeting to draft the 
Birdseye Mixed-Use Overlay District zoning amendment, as alleged by the complainant. We do 
find, however, that the above-referenced email exchange between Committee members Joseph 
Ciolino and Robert Whynott on November 15, 2010 regarding the draft zoning amendment 
constituted a deliberation in violation of the Open Meeting Law. After the City Clerk distributed 
a copy of the proposed zoning amendment, Councilor Whynott expressed concern in an email on 
November 15, 2010 that the zoning amendment would not be legal as written. Councilor Ciolino 
responded to Councilor Whynott by email and the two councilors proceeded to discuss the 
zoning amendment and its potential for controversy. With this email exchange, the Committee 
engaged in a written communication between a quorum of the members regarding "public 
business within its jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. There are three members of the Committee, 
and two constitute a quorum. See id. Any discussion between a quorum of the Committee 
regarding the merits of the proposal, its content, or its presentation was required to take place 
during a meeting. In contrast, the draft of the zoning amendment sent by the Clerk to a quorum 
of Committee members was not a deliberation. "Deliberation" does not include the distribution 
of "reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a 
member is expressed." Id. However, once discussion ensued between a quorum of the 
Committee regarding the content and presentation of the proposed amendment, the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law. Committee members must reserve their comments on matters 
within the Committee's jurisdiction for an' open meeting or legally convened executive session. 
If Committee members wish to communicate with municipal staff, such as suggesting revisions 
to a proposed zoning bylaw, then they may send their comments directly to municipal staff, so 
long as they don't copy a quorum of the Committee, resulting in an illegal deliberation. 
CONCLUSION 
We fmd that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating over email 
regarding the Birdseye Mixed Use Overlay District zoning amendment. However, we do not 
===PAGE 4===
find that the Committee met outside of an open meeting to draft the zoning amendment, as 
alleged by the complaint. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, and caution the Committee that a determination by our office of shnilar violations in the 
future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. Additionally, we 
order the Committee to publicly disclose at its next meeting copies of the November 15, 2010 
emails between Councilors Ciolino and Whynott that resulted in this violation. 
We now consider this complaint resolved and this matter closed. If you have any 
questions regarding this letter, please do not hesitate to contact me at the number below. 
nathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
cc: M. Sunny Robinson 
Gloucester City Council Planning and Development Committee 