===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 6, 2020 
       
       OML 2020 – 130 
 
 
Cherry Karlson 
Chair, Wayland Board of Selectmen 
 
 
By e-mail only:  
 
 RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Ms. Karlson: 
 
This office received two complaints from George Harris on April 23, 2019, and July 5, 
2019, alleging that the Wayland Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The first complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 4, 
2019, and the second complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 29, 2019.  Former 
Board Chair Lea Anderson responded to the first complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter 
dated March 15, 2019, and you responded to the second complaint, on behalf of the Board, by 
letter dated June 11, 2019.
1  The complaints allege that the Board failed to include sufficient 
specificity in its meeting notices and in its verbal statements prior to entering into executive 
sessions for meetings held on February 4, May 6, and May 13, 2019. 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters.
2  Following 
our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include 
sufficient detail in its May 13, 2019, meeting notice and by failing to follow certain procedural 
requirements for convening in executive session on February 4 and May 13, 2019.  We find that 
the Board did not violate the Open Meeting in the other ways alleged.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s responses to the complaints, and 
the complaints filed with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed the notices and 
open and executive session minutes of the Board’s February 4, May 6, and May 13, 2019, 
 
1 Lea Anderson was Chair of the Board when the first complaint was filed.  At the time the second complaint was 
filed, Cherry Karlson was Chair of the Board.  Ms. Anderson is still a member of the Board. 
2 The parties engaged in mediation pursuant to 940 CMR 29.05(9), which concluded unsuccessfully in December 
2019.   

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
meetings, as well as video recordings of those three meetings.3  Finally, we spoke with the 
complainant by telephone on March 28, 2019, and February 12, 2020.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  In September 2016, the Board signed a Memorandum of 
Agreement with the Wayland Public Employee Committee (“PEC”) regarding changes to health 
insurance benefits.  The Committee represents the Wayland Teachers Association, Retirees, 
Police Officers Union, Library Association, Food Service Association, Educational Secretaries 
Association, Department of Public Works Association, Custodians and Maintenance, Firefighters 
and Paramedics Association, and Municipal Employees Association. 
 
The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on February 4, 2019, at 7:00 P.M.  The 
notice listed seventeen topics, including five Executive Sessions.4  One of the executive sessions 
was to convene under Purpose 3 “to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with 
all bargaining units pursuant to the Public Employee Committee (PEC) agreement.”5  
 
The February 4, 2019, meeting was held as planned.  After discussing the open session 
topics, Chair Lea Anderson moved to enter into executive session under Purpose 3 “to discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining pursuant to the Public Employee Committee (PEC) 
agreement” and stated that discussion in executive session may have a detrimental effect on the 
negotiating or bargaining position of the Town.  She then stated the other three reasons for 
entering executive session as those topics were listed on the notice.  The Board approved a 
unanimous vote by roll call to convene in executive session and announced that it would 
reconvene in open session following the executive session only for the purpose of adjourning.  
During the executive session, the Board discussed health insurance options for Town union 
employees with a focus on providing high deductible plans, and the Town’s offer to match a 
certain percentage of deductible costs and mitigation funds.  The Board then discussed three 
litigation matters.  
 
The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on May 6, 2019, at 7:00 P.M.  The 
notice listed fourteen topics, including three Executive Sessions.  One of the executive sessions 
was to convene under Purpose 3 “to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with 
all bargaining units pursuant to the Public Employee Committee (PEC) agreement.”6  
 
3 Video recordings of the February 4, May 6, and May 13, 2019, meetings are available at 
https://www.waycam.tv/government-on-demand. 
4 The Board later revised its notice and removed one of the executive session topics – review of executive session 
meeting minutes. 
5 The other four executive sessions to be discussed during the February 4, 2019, meeting were “the purchase, 
exchange, lease or value of real property with respect to the Town’s agreement with Twenty Wayland, LLC” 
pursuant to Purpose 6, and “strategy with respect to litigation related to David Bernstein v. Planning Board of 
Wayland” and “litigation related to Kenneth Nelson v. Town of Wayland” pursuant to Purpose 3.  The complaint 
does not allege any violations with respect to these executive session topics. 
6 The other two executive sessions to be discussed during the May 6, 2019, meeting were “strategy with respect to 
litigation - Stephen Cass v. Town of Wayland” and review of one set of executive session meeting minutes pursuant 
to Purpose 3.  The complaint does not allege any violations with respect to these executive session topics. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The May 6, 2019, meeting was held as planned.  After discussing the open session topics, 
Chair Cherry Karlson moved to enter into executive session under Purpose 3 “to discuss strategy 
with respect to collective bargaining with all bargaining units pursuant to the Public Employee 
Committee (PEC) agreement” and stated that discussion in executive session may have a 
detrimental effect on the negotiating or bargaining position of the Town.  Chair Karlson then 
stated the other two reasons for entering executive session as those topics were listed on the 
notice.  The Board approved a unanimous vote by roll call to convene in executive session and 
announced that it would reconvene in open session following the executive session only for the 
purpose of adjourning.  During the executive session, the Board discussed whether the Town 
would increase its share of health insurance costs or switch to a Group Insurance Commission 
plan and continued to discuss the availability of high deductible plans.  Ultimately, the Board 
agreed to offer two alternatives for health insurance.  The Board then discussed a litigation 
matter and reviewed one set of executive session minutes.  
 
The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on May 13, 2019, at 7:00 P.M.  The 
notice listed thirteen topics, including an Executive Session pursuant to Purpose 3 “to discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining pursuant to the Public Employee Committee (PEC) 
agreement.”  
 
The May 13, 2019, meeting was held as planned.  After discussing the open session 
topics, Chair Karlson moved to enter into executive session under Purpose 3 “to discuss strategy 
with respect to collective bargaining pursuant to the Public Employee Committee (PEC) 
agreement” and stated that discussion in executive session may have a detrimental effect on the 
negotiating or bargaining position of the Town.  The Board approved a unanimous vote by roll 
call to convene in executive session and announced that it would reconvene in open session 
following the executive session only for the purpose of adjourning.  During the executive 
session, the Board discussed and reviewed the terms of a settlement agreement with PEC on 
health insurance plans for union employees.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened.  G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the 
ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open 
session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the 
vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has 
publicly announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive 
session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.7  
 
 
7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also 
District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] 
precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is 
the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and 
the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”). 
 
A public body may enter executive session to “discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or 
litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) 
(“Purpose 3”).  When convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body must 
identify the collective bargaining unit with whom it will be negotiating, if doing so will not 
compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy.  See OML 2018-139; OML 2016-43; OML 2015-87.   
 
The complaints allege that the executive session topics listed on the February 4, May 6, 
and May 13, 2019, meeting notices lacked sufficient detail where those topics did not include the 
specific collective bargaining units with whom the Board would be negotiating regarding the 
PEC agreement.  Here, the February 4 and May 6, 2019, meeting notices stated that the Board 
would convene in executive session to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with 
“all bargaining units” pursuant to the PEC agreement.  However, the May 13, 2019, meeting 
notice failed to identify the collective bargaining units to be discussed, only stating that the 
Board would convene in executive session to discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining pursuant to the PEC agreement.  In response to the complaints, the Board states that 
the collective bargaining strategy discussions during the May 13 meeting regarded all collective 
bargaining units.  
 
We conclude that the February 4 and May 6, 2019, meeting notices were sufficiently 
detailed but that the May 13, 2019, notice was not sufficiently detailed as it failed to identify the 
collective bargaining units to be discussed.  The Board does not suggest that inclusion of such 
information on the May 13, 2019, meeting notice would have compromised the purpose for the 
executive session.  See OML 2016-90; OML 2011-11.  As such, we find that the Board violated 
the Open Meeting Law with respect to the May 13, 2019, meeting notice as that notice failed to 
identify the bargaining units.  See OML 2019-114 (meeting notice should list the specific unions 
to be discussed or specify that all unions would be discussed); OML 2012-68.  The Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the February 4 and May 6, 2019, meeting notices.   
 
The complaints also allege that the Board failed to follow certain procedural requirements 
prior to convening in executive session on February 4 and May 13, 2019; specifically, that the 
Chair failed to announce the specific bargaining units with whom the Board would be 
negotiating in executive session.  During the February 4, May 6, and May 13, 2019, meetings, 
the Board properly convened in open session, approved a vote by roll call to enter executive 
session, and announced that it would resume in open session to adjourn following its executive 
sessions.  Moreover, the Chair’s announcement during the May 6, 2019, meeting identified the 
specific collective bargaining units with whom the Board would be negotiating.  However, the 
Board failed to comply with this one procedural requirement when it convened in executive 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
session on February 4 and May 13, 2019.  The Chair’s announcement prior to convening in 
executive session should have identified the specific collective bargaining units with whom it 
planned to negotiate.  See OML 2015-13; OML 2014-97.  This additional detail would not have 
compromised the confidentiality of the executive sessions, as it was included in the February 4, 
2019, meeting notice, and it would have provided the public with an understanding of the 
specific nature of the executive session discussions.  We find that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law but, because the Board has released the February 4 and May 13, 2019, executive 
session meeting minutes, we order no additional relief.  See OML 2014-150.
8   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include sufficient detail in its notice for its May 13 meeting and failing to follow a 
procedural requirement when convening in executive session during its February 4 and May 13 
meetings.  We order immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we 
caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
  
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government  
 
 
cc:  George Harris – By e-mail only:  
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
 
8 The Board has also released the May 6, 2019, executive session meeting minutes. 
