===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL ONE ASHBURTON PLACE BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108  TEL: (617) 727-2200  www.mass.gov/ago  
  
May 19, 2020         OML 2020 – 59   Elizabeth L. Sherwood, Esq. Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410 Quincy, MA 02169  By e-mail only: esherwood@mhtl.com  RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint  Dear Attorney Sherwood:   This office received a complaint from Christine McCue Potts on December 26, 2018, alleging that the Medfield School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on November 26, and Attorney Cynthia Amara responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated December 18.2  The complaint alleges that the Committee’s October 22 open session meeting minutes are insufficiently detailed where the minutes do not reference the procedural steps the Committee took prior to entering executive session.    Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include in the minutes that the Committee convened in executive session to discuss an Open Meeting Law complaint.  We find that the minutes are otherwise sufficiently detailed.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed the notice and open and executive session minutes of the Committee’s October 22 meeting, as well as a video recording of that meeting.3  Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on May 1, 2020.4                                                 1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018. 2 The parties agreed to engage in mediation pursuant to 940 CMR 29.05(9) but the attempts at mediation concluded unsuccessfully in March 2020.   3 The video recording of the October 22 Committee meeting is available at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6jC4GLBVo_o&list=PLypOllJHc4M06obOwR5ErZDQ6EUbNUVrU&index=5&t=0s. 4 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 2===
2  
FACTS  We find the facts as follows.  The Committee duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on October 22 at 7:00 P.M.  The notice included several open session topics, as well as an executive session “to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with the MTA, if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the public body.”  “MTA” refers to the Medfield Teachers Association.  The October 22 meeting was held as planned.  The Committee convened in open session and Committee Chair Anna Mae O’Shea Brooke announced that the Committee would enter into executive session “to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with the MTA, if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the public body as well as discuss an open meeting law complaint that was filed after this meeting was posted.”  The Committee then unanimously voted by roll call to convene in executive session and Chair Brooke announced that the Committee would reconvene in open session at the conclusion of the executive session.  During the executive session, the Committee discussed contract proposals from the Medfield Teachers Association, Teaching Assistants Unit, as well as an Open Meeting Law complaint.    The Committee reconvened in open session at 7:32 P.M. and discussed the remaining noticed topics.  Specifically, the Committee approved two sets of meeting minutes and a jazz choir trip to New Orleans; heard from the High School Student Advisory Council and the principals from the Elementary, Middle and High Schools; received a presentation on Medfield Project Happiness and another project on Mindfulness; discussed the 2020 fiscal year budget; approved several donations; and received updates from the Superintendent.   The Committee approved its October 22 open and executive session minutes during a November 5 meeting.  The approved open session minutes specified that the Committee had convened in executive session to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining but did not reference that the Committee had also convened in executive session to discuss an Open Meeting Law complaint.  The minutes also identified Chair Brooke, instead of Committee member Christopher Morrison, as making a motion to approve a jazz choir trip.  The executive session minutes included the two purposes for convening in executive session, Chair Brooke’s statement that the Committee would reconvene in open session at the conclusion of the executive session, and the recorded roll call vote of each Committee member to convene in executive session.  In response to this complaint, the Committee amended the October 22 open session minutes to specify that the Committee had entered executive session to discuss an Open Meeting Law complaint in addition to collective bargaining, to correctly identify Mr. Morrison as having made the motion to approve a jazz choir trip, and to include Mr. Morrison’s statement that he preferred staff members as chaperones.  DISCUSSION  The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).   
 
Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any of  ten purposes enumerated 
in the Open Meeting Law.  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a ).  Prior to entering executive session, a public 
body must convene in open session.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(b)(1).  A majority of members  of the 
body must vote to go into executive session and the vote of each member must be recorded by 
roll call and entered into the minutes; the chair must state the purpose for the executive session, 
stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the 
executive session was called; and the chair must state whether the open session will reconvene at 
the conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 22(b)(2) -(4).   
 
The complaint alleges that the open session minutes of the Committee’s October 22 
meeting are not sufficiently detailed because they fail to include the following information: that 
the Committee first convened in open session, that the Committee would reconvene in open 
session at the conclusion of the executive session, and each member’s vote of whether to enter 
executive session.  We agree that the open session minutes do not specify that the Committee 
first convened in open session, do not include the roll call vote of each member, and do not 
include the Chair’s statement that the Committee would reconvene in open session.  Attorney 
Sherwood has assured this office that the Committee did first convene in open session and then 
unanimously voted to enter executive session and the Committee’s October 22 executive session 
minutes confirm that the Committee properly convened in executive session.  Specifically, the 
October 22 executive session minutes record the two purposes for which the Committee 
convened in executive session, collective bargaining and discussion of an Open Meeting Law 
complaint; include the recorded roll call vote of each Committee member; and indicate that Chair 
Brooke stated that the Committee would reconvene in open session at the conclusion of the 
executive session.  Although neither the Open Meeting Law nor the regulations expressly require 
that the declaration regarding whether the Committee will reconvene in open session be 
documented in the minutes, we encourage public bodies to record such statement in the minutes 
since that is the only way for members of the public to know that the declaration was made.  See 
OML 2019-91.5  Furthermore, since the Open Meeting Law requires that a public body convene 
in open session before entering executive session, we recommend that public bodies record the 
procedural steps for convening in executive session in the open session minutes rather than the 
executive session minutes.   
 
The complaint further alleges that the October 22 open session minutes are not 
sufficiently detailed because the Committee did not identify the collective bargaining unit with 
whom it would be negotiating in executive session.  This office reviews meeting minutes to 
ensure that they accurately reflect the discussions that take place during meetings.  See OML 
2015-133.  Here, Chair Brooke announced that the Committee would convene in executive 
session to discuss strategy with respect to “collective bargaining with the MTA” and the minutes 
accurately reflect that statement.  As such, we find that the minutes are sufficiently detailed. 
 
                                                5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4  
However, we take this opportunity to remind the Committee that executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”).  When convening in executive session under purpose 3, a public body should identify on both the notice and in the verbal statement made before entering executive session, the specific collective bargaining unit with which it will be negotiating, if doing so will not compromise the executive session purpose.  See G.L. c. 30A,   §§ 21(b)(3); OML 2017-67; OML 2014-133; OML 2013-91.  Although not raised in the complaint, we note that the Committee here should have identified the Teaching Assistants Unit as the collective bargaining unit with which it would be negotiating, in both the notice and verbal statement made before entering executive session.  This additional detail would have provided the public with an understanding of the specific subject of the executive session discussion, and the Committee does not suggest that inclusion of such information would have compromised the purpose for the executive session.  Moreover, we note that our office discourages the use of acronyms that are not widely understood by members of the public.  See OML 2016-5 (finding that "PILOT" is not a widely understood acronym); cf. OML 201 2015-172 (concluding that "FAA" is a widely understood acronym).  The complaint also alleges that the October 22 minutes are inaccurate because they do not reference that one of the purposes for the executive session was to discuss an Open Meeting Law complaint and misidentified the Committee member who made a motion to approve a jazz choir trip.  We agree that the open session minutes that were approved on November 5 did not specify that the Committee convened in executive session to discuss an Open Meeting Law complaint and misidentified the Committee member who made a motion to approve a jazz choir trip.  The omission from the minutes that the stated purpose for entering executive session included to discuss an Open Meeting Law complaint violated the Open Meeting Law’s requirement that the Committee create and maintain accurate minutes.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The Committee claims that this omission was an unintentional oversight.  We note that, in response to this complaint, the Committee amended its minutes to state that the Committee convened in executive session to discuss an Open Meeting Law complaint and to correctly identify the member who made the motion to approve a jazz choir trip.  We commend the Committee for taking such remedial action, which we find adequately addressed this allegation.  See OML 2017-54; OML 2014-150.    However, we must determine whether this violation was, as the complainant urges, an intentional one.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 29.02.  An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting Law.  Id.  Although the Committee was previously advised twice by the Attorney General that the Open Meeting Law requires that a public body create accurate meeting minutes, both of those determinations focused on the requirement that minutes contain a list of 
===PAGE 5===
5  
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting.  See OML 2020-41; 2019-28.  Moreover, the minutes at issue here were created and approved prior to issuance of those determinations.  We also find no evidence that the Committee acted with an intent to conceal the nature of the executive session, where Chair Brooke announced in open session that the Committee would enter into executive session to discuss an Open Meeting Law complaint.  Therefore, we decline to find an intentional violation of the Open Meeting Law.    Finally, although not raised in the complaint, we note that the Committee’s October 22 executive session meeting minutes do not appear to be sufficiently detailed.  The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  Minutes of all meetings, whether open or executive session, should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See OML 2018-8; OML 2017-160; OML 2016-147; OML 2014-116.  Based on our in camera review of the minutes of the October 22 executive session, we note that the minutes look inadequate to meet the standard required by the Open Meeting Law because they do not offer a sufficiently detailed summary of the Committee’s thirty-minute discussions.  Rather, the minutes simply state that a discussion of proposals occurred, but do not include a summary of the discussions surrounding the proposals.  See OML 2019-104; OML 2014-67.  Moreover, the minutes do not include any reference to the Committee’s discussion of an Open Meeting Law complaint.  We recommend that the Committee amend its October 22 executive session meeting minutes in accordance with the requirements of G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).      CONCLUSION  For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by approving inaccurate meeting minutes.  We note that the Commission had taken remedial action to address this violation before the complaint was filed with this office.  We order immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.          Sincerely,            KerryAnne Kilcoyne        Assistant Attorney General        Division of Open Government 

===PAGE 6===
6 
 
 
 
cc:   Christine McCue Potts – By e-mail only:  
Medfield School Committee – By e-mail only: scchair@email.medfield.net 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 