===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
       August 2, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 144 
   
 
Christopher H. Heep, Esq. 
Miyares Harrington 
40 Grove Street 
Wellesley, MA 02482 
 
By email only: cheep@miyares-harrington.com 
 
 RE:  Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Heep: 
 
This office received two complaints from Gregg Darish on December 9, 2023, alleging 
that the Needham Select Board (the “Select Board”) and Needham Planning Board (the 
“Planning Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaints were 
originally filed with the Select Board and Planning Board on October 11, 2023, and you 
responded to the complaints, on behalf of the Select Board and Planning Board, by separate 
letters dated October 31, 2023.  The complaints allege that the notice of the joint meeting held on 
September 11, 2023, was insufficient, and that the Select Board met in executive session for an 
improper purpose on September 11, 2023.   
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters.  Following 
our review, we find that neither the Select Board nor Planning Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law in the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, 
the Select Board’s and Planning Board’s responses to the complaints, and the complaint filed 
with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed the notice and open and executive 
session minutes of the Select Board and Planning Board joint meeting held on September 11, 
2023, as well as a video recording of the open session portion of that meeting.
1   
 
 
 
1 A video recording of the joint meeting held on September 11, 2023, is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iDWOmD-n1aI.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On March 1, 2022, after nine months of hearings and 
deliberations, the Planning Board issued a decision approving a site plan, submitted by Needham 
Enterprises, for construction of a 10,034 square foot day care center at 1688 Central Avenue in 
Needham.  The decision included numerous conditions and modifications intended to protect 
neighborhood and municipal interests, including front set-back requirements, the demolition of a 
barn, traffic mitigation measures, and soil testing.  Needham Enterprises thereafter appealed to 
Land Court arguing that the Planning Board had required a special permit for the construction of 
the proposed day care center, in violation of G.L. c. 40A, § 3, often referred to as the “Dover 
Amendment.”
2  In August 2023, the Land Court issued a decision finding that the Planning 
Board exceeded its authority and entered a judgment annulling in whole the Planning Board’s 
March 1, 2022, decision. 
 
The Select Board duly posted notice of a joint meeting to be held with the Planning 
Board on September 11, 2023, at 5:00 P.M.  The title of the notice stated “Select Board Agenda 
Special Joint Meeting With Planning Board.”  The notice listed two topics: “Discuss Special 
Town Meeting Draft Warrant Article: “Foster Property Open Space Zoning Non-Binding 
Resolution” and an Executive Session pursuant to Purpose 3 “To Discuss Potential Litigation 
Relative to 1688 Central Avenue.” 
 
The September 11, 2023, joint meeting was held as planned.  After discussing the open 
session topic, the Chair of the Planning Board and the Chair of the Select Board separately made 
motions to convene in executive session “for the purpose of discussing strategy with respect to 
litigation, namely Needham Enterprises Inc. vs. Needham Planning Board, Land Court 
Miscellaneous Case #22 MISC 000158.”  Both Chairs announced that having such discussions 
would have a detrimental impact on the Board’s litigating position and stated that each Board 
would adjourn at the conclusion of the executive session without returning to open session.  The 
Select Board and the Planning Board each voted by roll call to enter executive session.
3  
  
Because the Select Board and Planning Board have not publicly released the minutes of 
the executive session, we do not recount their content in detail here.  However, we note that the 
Select Board and Planning Board discussed whether to appeal the decision of the Land Court. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be printed in a legible, easily 
 
2 G.L. c. 40A, § 3 states that “no zoning ordinance or bylaw in any city or town shall prohibit, or require a special 
permit for, the use of land or structures, or the expansion of existing structures, for the primary, accessory or 
incidental purpose of operating a child care facility; provided, however, that such land or structures may be subject 
to reasonable regulations concerning the bulk and height of structures and determining yard sizes, lot area, setbacks, 
open space, parking and building coverage requirements.”  
3 We remind the Select Board and Planning Board that meeting minutes should record a roll call vote by 
documenting the vote of each public body member by name, and that even unanimous votes need to be recorded by 
roll call in the minutes.  See OML 2021-196; OML 2015-131; OML 2013-195.   
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
understandable format and must contain the date, ti me and place of the meeting, as well as a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Id.  The list of topics 
shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35; OML 2012-71.
4   
 
We find that the joint notice of the September 11, 2023, meeting met the requirements of 
the O
pen Meeting Law.  Two or more public bodies may hold a joint meeting; however, each 
public body participating in the meeting must provide notice pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 20.  The 
public bodies must provide independent notice of their meetings, or if posting a single notice, 
must clearly state that each public body will be meeting.  See OML 2021-153; OML 2019-163.  
Any notice of a joint meeting must meet all the requirements of the Open Meeting Law and 
include the public bodies’ names, the date, time, and location of the meeting, and all the topics 
that the public bodies anticipate discussing.  See OML 2023-128; OML 2013-36.  Here, the joint 
notice included the names of both the Select Board and Planning Board, the date, time, and 
location of the meeting, and included all of the topics that the two Boards anticipated discussing.  
As such, we find that the single notice of the September 11, 2023, joint meeting was sufficient 
notice for both public bodies. 
 
The complaint further alleges that the notice did not include sufficient specificity with 
res
pect to the executive session topic.  Executive session topics must be described, both in the 
meeting notice and in an announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 
567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary 
... because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct 
business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was 
proper or improper”). 
 
Here, the notice of the September 11, 2023, meeting listed an executive session “To 
Dis
cuss Potential Litigation Relative to 1688 Central Avenue.”  The verbal statement made prior 
to entering executive session added the additional detail of the case name, the court in which the 
litigation was pending, as well as the docket number of the case.  We find that the notice was 
sufficiently specific where the Board identified the specific litigation matter it planned to discuss 
during the executive session.  See OML 2020-28.  A public body need not list each and every 
detail about a topic in order to comply with the law’s requirements.  See OML 2018-7; OML 
2014-122.   
  
Next
, we determine whether the Select Board properly convened in executive session on 
September 11, 2023, to discuss whether the Planning Board should appeal the Land Court 
decision involving 1688 Central Avenue.  A public body may enter an executive, or closed, 
session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has 
first convened in an open session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website;  https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
executive session, that t he vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the 
minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether the open session will reconvene at the 
conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.    
 
One permissible reason to convene in executive session is “to discuss strategy with 
res
pect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).  This purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with 
respect to litigation that is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise 
demonstrably likely; the mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3.  See 
Doherty v. School Committee of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Perryman v. School 
Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-05.  Generally, to convene 
an executive session under Purpose 3, a public body must have a bargaining or litigating position 
to protect.  See OML 2012-116. 
 
The complaints allege that the Select Board convened in executive session for an 
improper purpose because the litigation matter discussed was against the Planning Board not the 
Select Board, and therefore the Select Board did not have a litigating position to protect.  The 
Select Board maintains that the Planning Board did not possess independent authority to engage 
in an appeal; rather, that authority is vested with the Select Board and therefore the Select 
Board’s participation in the executive session discussion was both appropriate and necessary. 
 
In previous determinations, we have found that a public body properly met in executive 
ses
sion under Purposes 2 or 3 even though that public body was not a named party in a litigation 
matter or was not directly involved in a bargaining matter but had a role to play in the litigation 
or contract negotiation matter.  See OML 2011-47 (finding that finance committee could utilize 
Purpose 3 to enter executive session to discuss litigation strategy even though not a named party 
in litigation because it undertook “certain legal, financial and real estate appraisal analyses of the 
proposed settlement agreement” and was “an active participant in litigation strategy”); OML 
2014-141 (finding that finance committee properly convened in executive session under 
Purposes 2 and 3 as committee was active in municipal contract negotiations and therefore 
possessed a bargaining position); OML 2023-233 (finding that advisory committee properly met 
in executive session under Purpose 3, even though committee was not a named party to the 
litigation matters, because advisory committee had to approve transfer of funds for the purpose 
of settling the litigation matters).  We find that the Select Board similarly had a role to play here 
with respect to the Land Court litigation matter that was discussed during the September 11, 
2023, joint meeting.  Therefore, we find that it was permissible for the Select Board to meet in 
executive session to discuss whether to appeal the decision of the Land Court.   
 
Although not specifically raised in the complaints, we further find that the Planning 
Boa
rd had a litigating position to protect where it was a party to the litigation matter that was 
discussed during the September 11, 2023, executive session.  Because the Planning Board had a 
litigating position to protect and discussed a pending litigation matter, whether to appeal the 
Land Court decision, which was an appropriate discussion for executive session under Purpose 3, 
the Planning Board could have invited the Select Board to participate in the executive session 
discussions.  See OML 2021-99 (“public body may invite an individual or other public body to 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
attend or participate in an executive session if the public body believes that doing so would assist 
the public body in its work and would not undermine the stated purpose for the meeting in 
executive session.”). 
 
Finally, with respect to the concerns raised in the complaints that each Board deliberated 
outsi
de of a meeting to discuss whether to schedule an executive session meeting for purposes of 
discussing the pending Land Court matter, the Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” as “an 
oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.”  See G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  However, deliberation does not include the distribution of a meeting agenda or 
scheduling information.  See OML 2015-69.  Moreover, the Boards explain that executive 
sessions are scheduled by the respective Chair of each Board, and we have not been presented 
with any evidence that a quorum of members of the Select Board or Planning Board discussed 
this matter outside of a properly posted meeting.  Our office will not conduct broad audits of 
public bodies based on generalized allegations.  See OML 2013-180; OML 2012-106. 
 
In his request for further review, the complainant alleg
 es that the Planning Board did not 
create or timely approve minutes of the September 11, 2023, joint meeting.  We generally 
decline to review an allegation that was not included within the original complaint to the 
Planning Board because the Board has not had an opportunity to respond to it.  See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3).  We find that this allegation was not clearly raised in the original 
complaint and thus we do not review its merits.  We remind the Planning Board that the Open 
Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, 
including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or 
absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used 
at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of 
all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  We note that the Select Board has created and approved 
minutes of the open session portion of the September 11, 2023, meeting.  Thus, the Planning 
Board may review and adopt a copy of those minutes, as it was functionally a joint meeting of 
the two bodies.  See OML 2013-38; OML 2011-16.  In addition, we note that both the Select 
Board and Planning Board have each created executive session minutes of the meeting.5  
 
  
 
5 Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as publication may defeat the 
lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f).  When the purpose for a valid 
executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed 
unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the public records law applies to withhold them, in whol e or 
in part, from disclosure.  See id.  Public bodies have an obligation to review the minutes of executive sessions at 
reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of minutes is warranted, and to announce that 
determination at the next meeting following its review.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1); OML 2015-94; OML 2013-56.   
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that neither the Select Board nor Planning Board 
violated the Open Meeting.  We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to 
be resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Select Board or Planning Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 
963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
  
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  Gregg Darish – By email only:   
 Needham Select Board – By email only: selectboard@needhamma.gov 
Needham Planning Board – By email only: Planning@needhamma.gov  
 Needham Town Clerk Louise L. Miller – By email only: lmiller@needhamma.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
