===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.1nass.20v/aao 
January 16, 2018 
OML 2018-6 
Katherine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
This office received two complaints from Stephen Morgan on October 20 alleging that 
the Ashland Board of Health (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1 The complaints were originally filed with the Board on September 19; and you responded, 
on behalf of the Board, by letters dated October 4. Both complaints allege that the Board 
deliberated by email outside of a meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating by email. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the 
Board's responses to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed the notice of the Board's August 28 meeting; the open session 
minutes from the Board's August 29, September 26, and October 3 meetings; the August 23, 
August 24, and September 18 email correspondences between the Board; and a video recording 
of the Board's October 3 meeting.2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body; thus three 
members constitute a quorum. 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 The video recording is available at http://98.118.96.186/vod/2373-Board-of-Health-October-3-2017-Medium-
vl.mp4. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
On August 23, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on Monday, August 28 at 
7:00 p.m. Board member Jon Fetherston sent an email to all five Board members that same day. 
The email stated; 
Judy, Looks like Conservation has the BOS meeting room already for 
Monday. How does KG do both? You are aware that Mary, Mark and 
myself are not available. So with Conservation already in BOS, that 
leaves the basement, so you will have to change the agenda and no 
WACA? This agenda seems to have an agenda .... 
Board member Judy Margulies, who was Chair at the time, responded the next day on August 
24, copied the entire Board, and forwarded the email to Town Legal Counsel. Her response 
email stated "I continue to have concerns that email is being used by some for the expression of 
personal opinion. Mary and Jon continue to communicate with me back and forth making a 
quorum of three. Please assist if possible." About two hours later. Board member Mary 
Mortensen sent an email to Ms. Margulies and Mr. Fetherston stating "This is a simple to solve 
problem send me the information or step down and allow someone that knows how to handle the 
meetings take over." 
During an August 29 meeting, the Board reviewed neighborhood complaints concerning 
the parking of Connolly Buses at Chestnut and Brook streets. The Board heard from members of 
the public, discussed its jurisdiction over the matter, and appointed Mr. Fetherston to meet with 
Connolly Bus and the abutters, and then report back to the Board. 
On September 18, Mr. Fetherston sent the following email to all five Board members: 
The BOH voted that the missing meeting meetings [sic] be supplied by 
today. I have not seen. Judy/KG please provide before the BOH meeting 
scheduled for tomorrow. It has been 7 plus weeks for some of the missing 
minutes. Please note, 1 will follow the policies with the Ethics 
Commission and OA's office if not provided. 
Connolly Bus lot update: The bus lot sale closed on Friday and Connolly 
Bus is now the owner of the lot. There is no interest in meeting with 
abutters during the ZBA process. I am told that the BOH can anticipate 
follow up from property owner over letters submitted by Judy. 
The August 23, August 24, and September 18 emails were disclosed during the Board's 
October 3 meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
2 
===PAGE 3===
convened. See G.L. c. BOA, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided than no opinion of a member is expressed." Li For the purposes of the Open Meeting 
Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id. 
The complaints allege that the Board deliberated by email on August 23, August 24, and 
September 18 outside of a properly posted meeting. The Board contends that the August 23 
email from Mr. Fetherston to the Board does not constitute deliberation because it concerns 
scheduling. However, the Board acknowledges that the August 24 emails from Ms. Margulies 
and Ms. Mortensen, as well as the Connolly Bus update contained in the September 18 email 
from Mr. Fetherston constitute communications between a quorum of the Board. We agree that 
the September 18 email from Mr. Fetherston contained an improper deliberation because it 
contained an update on a matter that had previously been discussed by the Board and was still 
pending before it. If Mr. Fetherston wished to report on Connolly Bus, he should have presented 
that information to the other Board members during an open meeting. The expression of an 
opinion of one public body member on matters within the body's jurisdiction to a quorum of a 
public body is a deliberation, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 2016-
104; OML 2015-33; OML 2012-73.3 Moreover, the August 24 email from Ms. Mortensen also 
contained an improper deliberation as it discussed the Board's operation which is public business 
within the body's jurisdiction. See OML 2015-3; OML 2014-108 (concluding that a discussion 
concerning the leadership of a public body to be a matter of public business that should be 
reserved for an open meeting). The August 24 email from Ms. Margulies is a closer call. 
However, we will not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law where a public body member 
attempts to warn other public body members against violating the Open Meeting law. Although 
we find that this email did not violate the Open Meeting Law, we acknowledge that it is difficult 
to determinate what constitutes deliberation and that emails sent to a quorum of the Board run 
the risk of violating the law. We note that had Ms. Margulies sent her email to Town legal 
counsel without copying the other Board members, it would not have raised such concerns. 
Finally, we agree with the Board that the August 23 email from Mr. Fetherston did not 
constitute deliberation as it contained scheduling information which is explicitly exempt from the 
definition of deliberation under the law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2017-28; 2017-85. 
Likewise, that portion of Mr. Fetherston's September 18 email in which he requested copies of 
meeting minutes was not improper as deliberation does not include the distribution of reports or 
documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed. Id.; OML 2015-69. Recognizing that it is sometimes difficult to determine whether 
communication constitutes deliberation under the Open Meeting Law, our office cautions public 
bodies on the use of electronic communications. See OML 2014-80; OML 2017-88. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating by email on August 24 and September 18. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law. We commend the Board for publicly disclosing 
the August 23, August 24, and September 18 emails at its October 3 meeting. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Stephen Morgan 
Ashland Board of Health 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member of a 
body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 