===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 19,2018 
OML 2018-108 
Katherine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan on October 20 alleging that the 
Ashland Board of Health (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 31; and you responded, on behalf 
of the Board, by letter dated September 27. The complaint alleges that the Board discussed 
topics that were not listed on the meeting notice during its August 29 meeting, and that the Board 
failed to timely approve minutes from its June 29 and July 11 open session meetings. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting I.aw by discussing topics not 
listed on the August 29 meeting notice. However, we find that the Board did violate the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to timely approve meeting minutes. We find that failure to be an 
intentional violation of the law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review. We also reviewed the notices of, and open session minutes from, the 
Board's July 11, August 1, August 15, August 28, August 29, September 14, and September 26 
meetings; the notice of the Board's August 8 meeting; and a video recording of the August 29 
meeting.2 Finally, we spoke with the complainant by telephone on June 27, 2018. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 The video recording is available at http://98.118.96.186/CablecastPublicSite/show/2312?channel=2. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board posted notices for, and held meetings on, July 
11, August 1, August 8, August 15, August 28, and August 29. One topic on the notices for the 
July 11, August 1, August 15, and August 28 meetings included review and acceptance of 
minutes of past meetings. The notices for the August 8 and August 29 meetings did not include 
any topic regarding the review of meeting minutes. During the July 11 meeting, the Board 
approved the minutes from its June 20 and June 27 meetings, but tabled approval of the minutes 
from its June 29 meeting. The Board did not discuss or approve any minutes during its August 1, 
August 15, and August 28 meetings, even though each notice included the topic. 
On August 24 at 9:13 A.M., the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on Tuesday, 
August 29 at 7:00 P.M. The notice listed 18 topics, including review of the Ashland Town 
Charter and proposed modifications; fall Town Warrant process relative to public health needs; 
review of vaccine program data; review of neighborhood complaints concerning Connolly Bus; 
Rail Transit District updates: irrigation well at Cirrus Apartments; and schedule future meetings. 
Approval of meeting minutes was not included as a topic on the Board's August 29 notice. 
The August 29 meeting was held as planned. Chair Judith Margulies called the meeting 
to order at 7:00 P.M. Over the next three hours and forty-five minutes, the Board discussed only 
six of the noticed topics. Specifically, the Board heard from David Eastridge of Thomdike 
Development regarding an irrigation well at Cirrus Apartments and voted to approve the drilling 
of two wells. The Board then heard from Attorney Cheryl Sbarra of the Massachusetts 
Association of Health Boards and discussed the provisions of the Ashland Town Charter 
changing the Board from an elected to an appointed public body. Board Member Jon Fetherston 
asked Attorney Sbarra about the opioid crisis. 
The Board also discussed the parking of Connolly Buses at Chestnut and Brook Streets, 
heard from residents who lived in the neighborhood, and discussed whether it had jurisdiction 
over the matter. At one point during this discussion, tensions rose, the dialogue became heated, 
and a Board member suggested that Ms. Margulies was unfit to be chair. The Board recessed for 
approximately five minutes. After the recess, the Board continued its discussions and appointed 
Mr. Fetherston to set up a community meeting with Connolly Bus. 
The Board then discussed fall town meeting warrant articles and the Town's vaccine 
program. Finally, the Board discussed future meeting dates noting that it needed to review Open 
Meeting Law complaints and repost previous topics as a remedial measure in response to those 
complaints. Once again, tensions rose and a Board member suggested that Ms. Margulies was 
unfit to be chair. A motion to remove Ms. Margulies as chair failed, and the Board adjourned. 
The Board posted notices for, and held meetings on, September 14 and September 26. 
One topic on the notices for these two meetings included consideration of minutes for meetings 
held between June and September. During the September 14 meeting, the Board approved the 
minutes from its July 11 meeting, and tabled approval of minutes from its June 29, August 1, 
August 8, August 15, August 28, August 29, and September 5 meetings. During the September 
26 meeting, the Board approved minutes from its June 29, August 1, August 15, September 5 and 
2 
===PAGE 3===
September 14 meetings. The August 28 minutes were approved during the Board's October 3 
meeting, and the August 29 minutes were approved during the Board's December 12 meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Board Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Discussing Topics Not 
Listed on its Meeting Notice. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, "a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. Id. The list of topics 
shall have "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35.3 
The complaint alleges that the Board discussed topics during its August 29 meeting that 
were not listed on the notice, including approval of a Rail Transit District well, opioids, and 
complaints against the chair.4 The notice for the Board's August 29 meeting included a topic 
pertaining to the Rail Transit District including updates on the irrigation well at Cirrus 
Apartments. The notice did not specifically indicate that the Board would hear from the 
developer regarding the well, and Chair Margulies expressed surprise at the developer's 
appearance at the meeting. However, we find that the discussion with the developer and the 
Board's vote to approve the drilling of wells naturally flowed from its consideration of the 
posted agenda topic, such that the notice was sufficient to inform the public of the discussion that 
occurred. See OML 2016-150; OML 2014-132; OML 2013-145. The Open Meeting Law does 
not require a public body to anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion, 
only that it identify the discussion topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public 
of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); 
OML 2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38. We have previously found that it is reasonably 
foreseeable that a public body may take action and hold a vote following discussion of a topic 
listed on a meeting notice, even where the notice topic does not indicate the possibility of a vote. 
See OML 2015-66; OML 2012-75. 
With respect to the Board's discussion of opioids and complaints against the chair, we 
conclude that both discussions were unanticipated. A public body may discuss a topic not listed 
on a meeting notice if the topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the 
meeting. See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87. While the discussion of opioids may have fallen 
Q 
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 The complaint also suggests that the Board discussed other topics not listed on the notice. Complaints must allege 
violations with a degree of specificity, as our office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on 
generalized allegations. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); OML 2016-57; OML 2012-106. We thus limit our review to the 
allegations made in the complaint. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
within the general topic of public health jurisdiction which was listed on the notice, it was 
initially raised as a question by one board member to Attorney Sbarra for suggestions on how to 
address the opioid crisis. Discussions regarding the unfitness and removal of the chair arose in 
the midst of other noticed topics and were clearly the result of frustration on the part of certain 
board members. We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing 
these topics. 
11. The Board Intentionally Violated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Timely 
Approve Meeting Minutes. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes must be reviewed 
and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(c). Whenever possible, we recommend that 
minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2014-15; OML 2012-91. 
The complaint alleges that the minutes from Board meetings held on June 29 and July 11, 
as well as other unspecified minutes, were not approved in a timely manner. For bodies that 
meet regularly, such as weekly or bi-monthly, we have concluded that a delay of two to three 
months in approving minutes does not comply with the law.5 See OML 2016-62; OML 2013-31. 
Here, the Board met regularly but did not approve the July 11 minutes until September 14 and 
the June 29 minutes until September 26, despite having met seven to nine times between June 29 
and September 26. Further, the minutes from Board meetings held on August 1 and August 15 
were approved on September 26, five to seven meetings later. Finally, the Board approved its 
minutes from the August 28 and August 29 meetings on October 3 and December 12, 
respectively, four to six meetings later. We find that all these minutes were not approved in a 
timely manner, where the Board had many opportunities to approve these sets of minutes but 
failed to do so. Accordingly, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
The Board was previously advised twice by the Attorney General that the Open Meeting 
Law requires that minutes be approved in a timely manner. See OML 2017-117; OML 2016-
155. Accordingly, because the Board had previously been advised that this conduct violated the 
Open Meeting Law, we find that this violation is intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; 940 CMR 
29.02; OML 2013-63. However, our office acknowledges that the Board has attempted to 
approve some minutes but numerous interpersonal disagreements among several Board members 
has resulted in the Board's failure to reach a consensus regarding the minutes. The Board has 
also recently undergone a change in membership. Accordingly, we decline to recommend the 
imposition of a civil penalty in this instance. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c); OML 2015-122. 
5 We note that two weeks before the complaint was filed in this case, new Open Meeting Law regulations became 
effective which defined timely manner as "within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever 
is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay." See 940 CMR 29.11. However, all of the 
minutes at issue here pertain to meetings that occurred prior to the effective date of the regulations. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to approve minutes in a 
timely manner. We find that the Board's failure to timely approve minutes was intentional. We 
order immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar 
future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Future intentional 
violations for failure to timely approve meeting minutes may result in a recommendation of a 
civil penalty. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Kerry/mne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Stephen Morgan 
Ashland Board of Health 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member of a 
body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
5 