===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONEASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
Vincent K. Ritchie, Chair 
Hubbardston Planning Board 
7 Main Street, Unit #7 
Hubbardston, MA 01452 
August 14, 2017 
OML 2017-127 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Ritchie; 
This office received a complaint from Christine Bolduc, dated July 6, alleging that the 
Hubbardston Planning Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on June 5, and the Board responded by 
letter dated June 19. In her complaint, Ms. Bolduc alleges that the Board's discussion during an 
open meeting on May 31 should have taken place in executive session. She also alleges that the 
Board discussed her and other individuals during its May 31 meeting without providing her or 
them with specific notice.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice of the Board's May 
31 meeting and reviewed a video recording of this meeting.3 
1 Unless otherwise stated, all dates refer to the year 2017. 
2 Ms. Bolduc also alleges that Board member Thomas Robinson used his position as a Board member to publicly 
slander Ms. Bolduc, the town administrator, and members of other Hubbardston boards. This determination 
concerns only compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, thus we decline to review allegations 
of violation of any other laws. See OML 2013-79. Additionally, Ms. Bolduc alleges that Mr, Robinson discussed 
personal matters in a public setting and publicly disclosed matters that were the subject of an executive session on 
May 15, The Open Meeting Law does not prevent public bodies from discussing personal matters in open meetings, 
nor require individuals present for executive session to keep matters discussed confidential. See G.L. C.30A, §§ 18-
25. Therefore, even if true, these allegations do not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. C.30A, §§ 
18-25. As such, we do not review them. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of 
Commissioners). 
3 Available at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pUqFm7v6Fto. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. This complaint concerns a Board meeting held on May 31. 
The meeting notice, which was posted on the Town of Hubbardston website on May 23, listed 
"Tom Robinson Report on Investigation" as the last topic on the agenda. The "investigation" the 
notice referred to was an investigation into allegations, made by Ms. Bolduc, that Mr. Robinson 
treated Ms. Bolduc improperly and gained unauthorized access to Hubbardston Board of Health 
files during an interaction on January 31 in the basement of the Hubbardston library. 
The May 31 Board meeting was held entirely in open session. During the meeting, the 
Board addressed the investigation as the final topic. Ms. Bolduc was not present. Mr. Robinson 
read a written statement providing his perspective on the events preceding the investigation, the 
handling of the investigation, the outcome of the investigation, and the effects of the 
investigation on Mr. Robinson, his family, the Board clerk, and the Town of Hubbardston. He 
discussed Ms. Bolduc's role in these events as he perceived it. He also discussed his opinions on 
the involvement of the town administrator and members of other Hubbardston public bodies. 
Neither Ms. Bolduc nor any other individual discussed during the May 31 meeting received 
specific notice of the meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body may convene in executive session for any of ten purposes, including "to 
discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional 
competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or 
charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). When a public body plans to convene in executive session pursuant to 
Pmpose 1, the individual who is the subject of discussion has the right to receive written notice 
of the proposed executive session at least 48 hours in advance, to be present during executive 
session deliberations involving her, to have counsel present to advise her, to speak on her own 
behalf, and to cause an independent record of the executive session to be created at her own 
expense. Id. Additionally, if the individual requests that the session be open, the public body 
must hold the discussion in open session. Id. 
Ms. Bolduc alleges that the Board violated the law by discussing matters related to her 
reputation, character, physical condition or mental health in open session rather than in executive 
session. While some portion of the Board's May 31 meeting may have been appropriate for 
executive session under Purpose 1, public bodies are not required to convene in executive 
session for any purpose. See OML 2015-74; OML 2013-2.4 Although an individual discussed in 
executive session pursuant to Purpose 1 can request that the discussion take place in open 
session, see G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1), a public body "has sole discretion" to decide what 
discussions will take place in executive session. See OML 2011-53. We do not comment on 
whether any other law or policy required a closed door discussion of the matter. See OML 2015-
74. Accordingly, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing the topic in 
open, rather than executive, session. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The complaint also alleges that the Board was obligated to notify Ms. Bolduc and other 
individuals that it planned to discuss them during the May 31 meeting. The May 31 meeting was 
held entirely in open session. Our office encourages public bodies to provide notice to any 
individual who may be the subject of an open session discussion. See OML 2017-12. However, 
the Open Meeting Law does not require specific notice to an individual unless a public body 
plans to convene in executive session under Purpose 1. See OML 2017-75; OML 2017-12; 
OML 2013-41. Therefore, because the Board discussed Ms. Bolduc and other individuals in 
open session, rather than executive session, the Board was not required to provide individuals 
discussed with specific notice. See id. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Christine Bolduc 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 