===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONEASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 18, 2017 
OML 2017-10 
Brian Maser, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Maser: 
This office received a complaint from Enrico Cappucci on October 14, alleging that 
the Shirley Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about August 15, 
and you responded on behalf of the Board in a letter dated August 24. In his complaint, 
Mr. Cappucci alleges that, during the Board's executive session meetings on July 25 and 
August 8, the Board discussed individuals without providing them notice and an 
opportunity to be present during those discussions. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing matters that were not appropriate for executive session and by failing to comply 
with the procedural requirements for convening in executive session. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the complaint, 
and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the 
notices and open and draft executive session minutes of the Board's meetings held on July 
25 and August 8, as well as the audio-recordings of executive sessions held during those 
meetings, which were provided by the Board. 
We find the facts as follows. During meetings on July 25 and August 8, the Board 
convened in executive session at the request of the Shirley Police Chief. The meeting 
notices each listed the topic as follows: 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
EXECUTIVE SESSION 
G.L. c. 30A, sec. 21(a)(7) - To comply with, or act under the authority of, any 
general or special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements, specifically G.L. c. 214, 
sec. IB. 
In a letter to the Board, the Police Chief had requested authorization to hire an 
outside investigator to review two separate issues involving the Police Department. The 
first issue involved investigating the circumstances surrounding the disclosure to a member 
of the Board of a Police Officer's License to Carry application and Criminal Record 
Information ("CORI"). The second issue involved a Police Department employee's 
disclosure of an individual's arrest report and booking room video without proper 
authorization. 
At both meetings, the Board voted by roll call to "go into executive session...to 
only return to adjourn."2 Because the Board has not publicly released the minutes of these 
executive sessions, we do not recount their content in detail here. However, we note that 
during the July 25 executive session, the Board discussed the Police Chiefs request for an 
investigation, focusing mainly on the release of an individual's CORI. The Board also 
briefly discussed the employee who had released the booking room video. The Board 
decided to continue the discussion to its August 8 meeting. 
During the August 8 executive session, although the Board discussed both requests, 
much of the discussion centered on the Town's legal obligations and the Police 
Department's policies and procedures. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in 
an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may 
enter a closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open 
Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Executive session topics must be described in as 
much detail as possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive session 
was called. See District Attorney for the Northern District v. School Committee of 
Wayland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in 
executive session is necessary ... because that is the only notification given the public that 
2 We remind the Board that before entering executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the 
executive session, including all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called, and the chair must publicly announce whether the open session will 
reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(b)(3), (4); see also District Attorney 
forN. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 ("[a] precise statement of the reason for 
convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only notification 
given to the public that the school Board would conduct business in private, and the only way the public 
would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper."). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would 
know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper"). 
One reason for a permissible executive session is, "[t]o discuss the reputation, 
character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an 
individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought 
against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) 
("Purpose 1"). The individual to be discussed in a Purpose 1 executive session must be 
notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive 
session. IcL The individual must also be afforded the right to be present during the 
deliberations that involve that individual, the right to speak on his or her own behalf, the 
right to have counsel present to advise but not participate, and the right to have an 
independent record of that meeting made at the individual's own expense. Id 
Another permissible reason to convene in executive session is "[t]o comply with, or 
act under the authority of, any general or special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements." 
G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(a)(7) ("Purpose 7"). A public body entering executive session under 
Purpose 7 must state the specific law that requires the public body to keep its deliberations 
confidential, unless doing so would defeat the lawful purpose for secrecy. See District 
Attorney for the N. Dist.. 455 Mass. at 569. 
The complaint alleges that the Board improperly discussed individuals in executive 
session without notifying them and giving them an opportunity to be present. On its 
meeting notices, the Board justified its executive sessions by citing G.L. c. 214, § IB, the 
Right to Privacy statute, which proscribes the "disclosure of facts about an individual that 
are of a highly personal or intimate nature when there exists no legitimate, countervailing 
interest." Bratt v. International Business Machs. Corp., 392 Mass. 508, 518 (1984). In its 
response to the complaint, the Board contends that Purpose 1 would not have been an 
appropriate executive session justification because its discussion was not about any named 
individual. The Board states that rather than citing to G.L. c. 214, § IB, it should have 
instead cited to G.L. c. 6, §§ 167-178B, the Criminal Offender Record Information statute 
("CORI"), which restricts the Town's dissemination of CORI information to the public. 
We agree with the Board, in part. The Board's discussions partly concerned an 
individual's CORI information and therefore the Board should have cited the CORI statute 
for that portion of the discussion. We note that the Board could have also relied on 
Purpose 1 for this discussion if it had notified the individual about the anticipated 
discussion. We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law because it failed to cite 
to a proper statute to justify its executive session discussion under Purpose 7. 
The remaining portions of the Board's discussions should have been held in open 
session, however. First, much of the discussion focused on policy and procedures within 
the Police Department and the Town's legal obligations, topics which are not appropriate 
3 
===PAGE 4===
under any executive session purpose. See OML 2016-64.3 Second, the Board discussed 
whether to initiate an investigation into a particular employee's actions. Although this 
discussion may have been appropriate under Purpose 1 had the Board invoked Purpose 1, 
because the Board did not provide this employee with notice and an opportunity to be 
present, it should not have held its discussion behind closed doors. Id. Accordingly, the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law by holding those portions of the discussion in 
executive session. 
As a result of our finding, we order the Board to release to the public the portion of 
the executive session minutes concerning the Police Department's policies and procedures. 
The Board may not redact or withhold that portion of the minutes in any way. See G.L c. 
3 OA, § 22(f) ("The minutes of any executive session . . . may be withheld from disclosure 
to the public in their entirety ... as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of 
the executive session, but no longer; provided, however, that the executive session was 
held in compliance with section 21") (emphasis added)); OML 2014-42. Additionally, due 
to the Board's failure to notify the employee about the executive session, the Board may 
not rely on the Open Meeting Law to withhold the portion of the executive session minutes 
concerning that employee. The Board may, however, continue to withhold that portion of 
the minutes, in whole or in part, if an exemption to the Public Records Law or the attorney-
client privilege applies. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). However, because the employee had a right 
to be present during that executive session discussion, among other rights, but was denied 
those rights by the Board, we order the Board to provide the employee with an unredacted 
version of that portion of the minutes within thirty (30) days of the Board's receipt of this 
determination. See OML 2015-54. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing matters that 
were not appropriate for executive session and by failing to comply with the procedural 
requirements for convening in executive session. We order the Board's immediate and 
future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar future 
violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Additionally, we 
order the Board to release its July 25 and August 8 executive session minutes in 
accordance with the above guidance. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 5===
any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Enrico Cappucci 
Shirley Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of 
receipt of a final order. 
5 