===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
March 26, 2024 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Evan Halstead 
Chair, Fitchburg Agricultural Commission 
AgriculturalCommission@fitchburgma.gov 
 
 RE:  Reconsideration of OML 2024-7 
 
Dear Chair Halstead: 
 
We spoke by phone on March 12, 2024, which I construe as a request for reconsideration 
of our January 10, 2024, Open Meeting Law determination, OML 2024-7, resolving a complaint 
filed by Jacquelyn Wehtje concerning the Fitchburg Agricultural Commission (the 
“Commission”).  The complaint alleged that the complainant was denied access to the 
Commission’s April 22, 2023, meeting, and included several other related allegations.  Relevant 
here, we reviewed and discussed whether the Commission lawfully convened in executive 
session on April 22, 2023, and determined that the Commission did not have a lawful purpose for 
convening in executive session, in violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
There is no statutory right to reconsideration by the Office of the Attorney General of an 
Open Meeting Law determination or declination.  While the Division generally will not 
reconsider past determinations, the Division may grant reconsideration where the request 
identifies a clerical or mechanical error in the determination or a significant legal or factual issue 
that the Division may have overlooked or misapprehended in resolving the complaint.   
 
Following the issuance of our determination OML 2024-7, you provided significant 
additional explanation regarding the basis for convening in executive session on April 22, 2023, 
which was not previously known to the Division and which impacts our analysis of the propriety 
of the executive session.  Accordingly, we grant your request for reconsideration and reissue the 
determination.  We now conclude that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 
       Sincerely, 
        
       Carrie Benedon    
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
cc: Jen Barlow, Secretary, Fitchburg Agricultural Commission (via email: 
fitchburgagcomm@gmail.com) 
Jacquelyn Wehtje (via email: ) 
Joanna Bilota, Fitchburg City Clerk (via email: jbilotta@fitchburgma.gov) 
 
 
 

===PAGE 3===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
March 26, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 7 
 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Evan Halstead 
Chair, Fitchburg Agricultural Commission 
AgriculturalCommission@fitchburgma.gov 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Halstead: 
 
This office received a complaint from Jacquelyn Wehtje on May 23, 2023,
1 alleging that 
the Fitchburg Agricultural Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on or around 
April 23, and you responded on behalf of the Commission on May 4.  The complaint alleges that 
the complainant was denied entry to the room where the Commission’s April 22 was being held 
until a few minutes after the meeting’s posted start time, even once a quorum of the Commission 
was present in the meeting room.  The complaint also includes several other related allegations 
as discussed below.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Commission’s response, and supplemental correspondence from both the complainant and the 
Commission.  In addition, we spoke by phone with Jen Barlow, the Commission’s secretary, and 
with Evan Halstead, the Commission’s Chair
2, and reviewed the notice and minutes for the 
Commission’s April 22 meeting.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Commission is a five-member public body; therefore, 
three members constitute a quorum.  The Commission had been resurrected shortly before the 
events at issue in the complaint with the appointment of five new commissioners and had held 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 For clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 4===
2 
 
only one meeting prior to the events at issue in the complaint.  The Commission posted notice for 
a meeting to be held on April 22 at 2:30 p.m. in a meeting room at the Fitchburg Public Library.  
The notice indicated that the Commission would first convene in open session and included one 
substantive discussion topic: “Convene into Executive Session under, M.G.L. Chapter 39, §23B 
(6). To consider the purchase, exchange, taking, lease, or value of real property if such 
discussion may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the governmental body, if 
the Chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the City’s litigation 
and/or position. Not to return to open session at the conclusion of the executive session.” 
 
On April 22 at approximately 2:15 p.m. Commission members, as well as a consultant 
working with the Commission, began to arrive at the Fitchburg Public Library for the 
Commission’s meeting.  Commissioner Yonna Coon arrived first, along with the Commission’s 
Advisor, Janet Morrison.  The complainant arrived around 2:20 p.m. and tried to enter the 
meeting room; the Advisor told her she needed to wait outside the meeting room until the 
meeting began.  Commissioner Ingrid Wheeler arrived next, and at approximately 2:25 p.m. 
Commissioner Jen Barlow arrived, creating a quorum.  Upon her arrival, Commissioner Barlow 
began working to connect to the library’s wireless internet network and to connect to Zoom; the 
Commission experienced challenges with this process so the meeting started a few minutes late.  
The complainant tried to gain access to the meeting room.  The complainant states she knocked 
on the door; the Commission asserts the complainant banged on the door and shouted that she 
had a right to be let in.  Concerned that the complainant would refuse to leave the meeting room 
when the planned executive session began, the Advisor called police and requested their 
presence to ensure the complainant left the meeting when the executive session began and did 
not disrupt the meeting.   
 
At 2:30 p.m. Commissioner Evan Halstead arrived at the library; the Commission asserts 
that the complainant tried to force her way into the meeting room when Commissioner Halstead 
entered and she was again told she would be allowed in before the meeting began.  At 
approximately 2:35 p.m., after resolving technical and connectivity difficulties, the Commission 
opened the door to the meeting room and complainant was allowed to enter.  The Commission 
called the meeting to order.  The Commission voted to enter executive session and the 
complainant left the meeting without incident.  Police arrived after the complainant had left the 
meeting. 
 
During the executive session portion of the meeting, the Commission met with owners of 
certain farmland to discuss the Commission’s potential purchase of the property in order to 
preserve the farmland for agricultural use.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when meeting in executive session, all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, §20(a).  In order to be open to the 
===PAGE 5===
3 
 
public, a meeting must be accessible to the public.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); OML 2014-3.3  
Access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and 
hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2017-135; OML 
2016-54.  The Open Meeting Law defines a “meeting” as “a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  A “deliberation” is 
defined as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, 
between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  
 
The right to be present during a meeting is not absolute. The Open Meeting Law states 
that “[n]o person shall disrupt the proceedings of a meeting of a public body. If, after clear 
warning from the chair, a person continues to disrupt the proceedings, the chair may order the 
person to withdraw from the meeting and if the person does not withdraw, the chair may 
authorize a constable or other officer to remove the person from the meeting.”  See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(g); OML 2013-135; OML 2011-2 (“The Open Meeting Law gives clear authority to the 
chair of a public body to conduct the meeting and regulate who may speak to the body. If the 
chair determines that a member of the public is disruptive, then the chair is empowered to ask 
that person to leave or have that person removed.”).  
 
First, we address the complainant’s concerns that she was not granted entry to the 
meeting room for several minutes even once a quorum of the Commission was present.  The 
complainant and the Commission represent that while trying to address internet connectivity 
issues, the Commissioners engaged in discussion regarding chickens.  The Commission explains 
that this was a brief collegial discussion about a matter of personal interest to those present; did 
not relate in any way to Commission business; and that the Commission has no jurisdiction over 
matters of backyard chickens.  Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public 
body’s account of the facts.  See OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141; see also LaPointe v. License 
Board of Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) (“There is every presumption in favor of the honesty 
and sufficiency of the motives actuating public officers in actions ostensibly taken for the general 
welfare.”).  We find that any brief discussions that took place once a quorum was reached but 
before the complainant was granted entry into the meeting room were limited to social 
pleasantries and the like and did not constitute discussion of matters within the Commission’s 
jurisdiction.  See OML 2021-34.  Therefore, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law in 
this regard.   
 
Second, we review whether the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by calling 
police to maintain order during the April 22 meeting.  Here, where police were specifically asked 
only to be present if needed to maintain order and to ensure only authorized individuals attended 
the executive session, and police did not even arrive until after the complainant had voluntarily 
left the meeting once the executive session began, we find no violation of the Open Meeting 
Law.  We emphasize, however, that removal of an individual from a public meeting should be 
used only as a last resort when a person continues to disrupt a meeting despite directives to the 
contrary or in cases of violent, threatening, or abusive behavior.  See OML 2023-211; OML 
2022-197; OML 2018-77; OML 2013-135.  Although there is dispute regarding the 
complainant’s behavior during the approximately 15 minutes between her arrival and the start of 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 6===
4 
 
the meeting and we acknowledge some degree of prior conflict between the complainant and 
other Town officials or employees, we note that the circumstances as we understand them likely 
would not have justified removal from a meeting.   
 
Third, we review the propriety of the Commission’s executive session during its April 22 
meeting.  As a preliminary matter, we note that on its meeting notice the Commission cited to 
“M.G.L. Chapter 39, §23B (6)” as the statutory provision purportedly authorizing the executive 
session.  This statutory section was repealed in 2009.  Since 2010, the Open Meeting Law has 
been codified in General Laws chapter 30A, sections 18-25; we recommend the Commission 
review the Law to ensure it complies with current requirements.  All meetings of a public body 
must be conducted in an open session, unless a closed-door executive session is convened for 
one of ten enumerated statutory purposes.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  One permissible reason 
for a public body to convene in executive session is to “consider the purchase, exchange, lease or 
value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the negotiating position of the public body.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) (“Purpose 6”).   
 
Our office has consistently stated that the proper application of Purpose 6 is to protect a 
public body’s negotiating position vis-à-vis other parties to a transaction.  See, e.g., OML 2023-
241; OML 2023-81; OML 2022-119; OML 2020-158; OML 2018-73.  Therefore, we have 
explained that it generally is improper to convene in executive session to negotiate with the 
opposing party to a transaction.  See, e.g., OML 2020-2.  Indeed, the Massachusetts Appeals 
Court has held that “the purpose of the real property exception—the need for confidentiality in 
considering the value of property to be purchased, exchanged or leased in order to avoid 
impairment to the negotiating position of a governmental body—was not met” when 
representatives of the opposing party to a real estate transaction were present at the executive 
session.  Allen v. Board of Selectmen of Belmont, 58 Mass. App. Ct. 715, 719-20 (2003).  At the 
same time, that Court recognized that Purpose 6 is intended to avoid putting the public body at a 
disadvantage in its negotiations for real property, as “open discussion of the value of the property 
might invite speculators to drive up the eventual price paid by the government, with the result 
that the additional cost would be born by the public.”  Id. at 720.  See also Dist. Atty. for 
Plymouth Dist. v. Bd. of Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 633 n.5 (1985) (“The 
reasoning behind the exception is that public discourse would invite speculation and thus drive 
up the eventual price paid by the government.”); OML 2016-50 (finding that a public body 
considering acquiring real property was justifiably concerned that identifying the real property to 
be discussed would generate interest in the property by other potential buyers and compromise 
the public body’s negotiating position). 
 
Chair Halstead explained to our office that the Commission sometimes has opportunities 
to purchase agricultural land from landowners who prefer to preserve their land for agricultural 
use rather than sell to a developer and may be willing to sell at a small discount to accomplish 
that goal.  Chair Halstead explained that the Commission typically cannot compete with 
developers on price, and that publicizing the fact that particular landowners are actively 
considering selling their property would invite development offers far in excess of what the 
Commission can pay, with the result that landowners ultimately may be dissuaded from selling 
to the Commission and preserving their land for agricultural use.  Although we maintain that it 
generally is improper to convene in executive session to negotiate with the opposing party to a 
===PAGE 7===
5 
 
transaction, we are satisfied that the Commission has demonstrated that in these circumstances, 
an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body.  
Therefore, the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law by convening in executive 
session on April 22. 
 
Finally, we reject the complainant’s concerns regarding the presence in the meeting 
room, both before the meeting was called to order as well as during the executive session, of the 
Commission’s Advisor who does not reside in Fitchburg and another gentleman who the 
Commission describes as the “mentally disabled adult son who lives with [a Commissioner] and 
could not be left at home unsupervised.”  We find no error with the Commission’s decision to 
allow these two individuals to be present prior to the start of the meeting and note that had the 
executive session been convened for a proper purpose, these individuals’ presence in the 
executive session would have been permissible then as well. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Commission or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Jen Barlow, Secretary, Fitchburg Agricultural Commission (via email: 
fitchburgagcomm@gmail.com) 
Jacquelyn Wehtje (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
