===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL wvvw.mass.gov/ago 
May 15, 2017 
OML 2017-76 
Rowley Conservation Commission 
c/o Arthur S. Page III, Chair 
Town Hall Annex, Room 4 
39 Central Street 
P.O. Box 24 
Rowley, MA 01969 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Page: 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Comley Sr. on March 13 alleging 
that the Rowley Conservation Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the 
Commission on or about February 28, and the Commission responded by letter dated 
March 7. The complaint alleges that the revised notice for the Commission's January 24 
meeting was not properly posted. 2 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Commission's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review. We also reviewed the original and revised notices of and open 
session minutes from the Commission's January 24 meeting. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On December 15, 2016, the Commission posted 
notice with the Town Clerk for a meeting to be held on Tuesday, January 24 at 7:30 P.M. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 We reviewed all of the material provided by Mr. Comley. The Division of Open Government is charged 
specifically with reviewing complaints to determine compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25, thus we decline to review, and offer no opinion on, any potential wetlands violations or nuclear 
plant safety issues raised in Mr. Comley's complaint. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
This notice simply listed the topics as: the Wetlands Protection Act, Town of Rowley 
Wetlands Protection Bylaw, and Storm Water Management & Erosion Control Bylaw. 
On January 16, the Commission posted an amended notice specifically detailing the 
topics and approximate times that the topics would be discussed during the January 24 
meeting. One topic heading was "Administrative" and included the following topics: 
Payroll and/or Vendor Bills, Minutes, and MACC Annual Environmental Conference.3 
On January 24 at 2:13 P.M., the Commission emailed to the Town Clerk, and other local 
municipal public bodies, a revised notice which included two additional topics under the 
heading "Administrative:" Massachusetts Land Conservation Conference and Regional 
Resource Management Plan effort. These two topics were the only change to the notice. 
The date and time of posting by the Town Clerk of this revised notice was January 25 at 
12:33 P.M. 
During the "Administrative" portion of the meeting, the Commission reviewed 
and authorized the payroll and reimbursement of various vendor bills and approved 
meeting minutes. Conservation Agent Brent Baeslack advised the Commission of the 
MACC Annual Environmental Conference and Massachusetts Land Conservation 
Conference. Agent Baeslack then reviewed a request from the Essex Town 
Administrator for participation in a Regional Resource Management Plan effort for docks 
and pier development, and the Commission authorized Agent Baeslack to represent the 
Commission. The Commission later provided Mr. Comley with an opportunity to speak 
at the meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The complaint alleges that the revised notice for the Committee's January 24 
meeting was not properly posted. A public body must post notice of every meeting at 
least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b). The notice must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and 
must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the 
chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. IcL The date and time that the notice is 
posted must be conspicuously recorded on or with the notice itself. 940 CMR 29.03 
(l)(b). The list of topics shall have "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public 
of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." Id. 
While we commend the Commission's efforts to give the public notice of topics 
that arose after the original notice was posted, the revised notice here was not posted by 
the Town Clerk until the day after the January 24 meeting. However, we do not find a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law because a public body may discuss a topic not listed 
on a meeting notice if the topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of 
the meeting. See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87.4 Because the Commission was not aware 
3 The topics also included two Notices of Intent, a Notice of Violation and an Enforcement Order which 
were sufficiently detailed and accurately identified the discussions by the Commission on January 24. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
of the Massachusetts Land Conservation Conference and Regional Resource 
Management Plan effort until the day of the meeting, the chair could not have reasonably 
anticipated its discussion 48 hours prior to the meeting. Further, the Commission did not 
actually discuss the conservation conference; Agent Baeslack simply notified the 
Commission of the conference. When a public body does not actually deliberate on a 
noticed topic, the public body cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to that 
topic. See OML 2015-63; OML 2014-81. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this detennination to 
be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be 
pending with our office or the Commission. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 
963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Stephen Comley Sr. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt 
of a final order. 
3 