===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
 
February 6, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 12 
 
VIA E-MAIL 
 
Alexander M. Castro, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa LLC 
alex@mtclawyers.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Castro: 
This office received two complaints from Stephen Morgan on July 21 and 27, 2022, 
alleging that the Ashland Sustainability Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The first complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on June 1 and alleges that the Committee did not properly respond to a request for 
meeting minutes.  The second complaint was originally filed with the Committee on July 5 and 
you responded, on behalf of the Committee, on July 27, pursuant to an extension of time granted 
by this office.  The second complaint alleges that the Committee did not properly respond to the 
first complaint.  
 
In resolving the complaints, we reviewed the original complaints, the response to the 
second complaint, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review.  We also 
reviewed correspondence between the Complainant and the Town Clerk, and corresponded with 
the Complainant and the Town Clerk.  Finally, we reviewed the Committee’s meeting minutes as 
posted to the Town website.  We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to properly respond to the first complaint. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On April 26, the Complainant sent an email addressed to 
Publicrecords@ashlandmass.com; Cindy Livingstone, the Ashland Town Clerk; Tara Ward, the 
 
1 Except where indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2022. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
recently-retired Ashland Town Clerk; and the general email address for the Committee.  The 
email stated that the Complainant did not find the Committee’s meeting minutes posted to the 
Town’s website for 2022 and “much of 2021.”  The email continued, “As documents request, 
please post or provide via email all the missing minutes. An OML complaint will follow unless 
these approved minutes can be provided.” 
 
On May 11, the Town Clerk responded to the request stating that she had posted many of 
the meeting minutes on April 27 and that she was still waiting to receive eight remaining sets of 
minutes from the Committee.  The next day, the Town Clerk posted the remaining meeting 
minutes.  The Complainant filed the first Open Meeting Law complaint dated June 1, alleging 
that the Committee had not providing all of the requested meeting minutes within 10 days of the 
request “as required by G.L. c. 30A sec. 22(c).” 
 
In response to the first Open Meeting Law complaint, the Town Clerk followed up with 
the Complainant and requested clarification regarding the allegations.  On June 14, she 
confirmed to the Complainant that all the requested minutes had been posted to the Town 
website by May 12, which she represented was “2 days after the 10 days had passed.”  On June 
16, the Town Clerk again emailed the Complainant to ask whether he intended to move forward 
with his Open Law complaint because if so she would “need to have a formal response to you by 
6/22/2022 and the Board will need to vote on it. In that case I will need to ask the Supervisor for 
an extension.”  The Complainant did not respond to that email.   
 
On June 21, the Town Clerk requested from this office an extension of time for the 
Committee to respond to the complaint; an extension was granted until June 30.  The Committee 
did not thereafter respond to the first Open Meeting Law complaint.  The Complainant then filed 
the second Open Meeting Law complaint, alleging that the Committee did not properly respond 
to the first complaint. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Committee Fai
 led to Timely Respond to a Request for Meeting Minutes. 
 
The first complaint alleges that the Committee failed to timely respond to a request for 
meetin
g minutes.  Meeting minutes may be requested under either the Open Meeting Law or the 
Public Records Law, depending on how the request is made.  The Open Meeting Law requires 
that a public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive 
sessions.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether 
approved or in draft form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 days.”  
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  If such minutes do not yet exist at the time of a request, the public body is 
still required to respond to a request within 10 days with an explanation of whether the minutes 
do or do not exist in either approved or draft form.  See OML 2018-98; OML 2017-50; OML 
2016-71; OML 2015-173.2   
 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
A request for meeting minutes that is directed to a public body will fall under the Open 
Meeting Law and requires a response within 10 calendar days.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 22(c), (g); 
OML 2019-163; OML 2019-20; OML 2017-50.  On the other hand, a request for minutes that is 
directed to a clerk or other municipal employee as Records Access Officer will likely fall under 
the Public Records Law and requires a response in 10 business days.  See G.L. c. 66, § 10; see 
also OML 2019-126; OML 2019-68.  Here, the request for meeting minutes was directed to the 
Town’s designated public records email address, the Town Clerk, and the Committee’s general 
email address.  The email stated it was a “document request,” and also stated that “[a]n OML 
complaint will follow unless these approved minutes can be provided.”  We find the request was 
ambiguous as to whether it was intended as a request made under the Open Meeting Law or the 
Public Records Law; the Town Clerk clearly construed the request as a public records request 
and responded accordingly.  Regardless, where the request for meeting minutes was sent directly 
to the Committee, the Committee should have complied with its obligations under the Open 
Meeting Law to respond within 10 calendar days either by making the minutes available or 
explaining that minutes did not exist.  Therefore, the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law.  
We acknowledge that many of the requested sets of meeting minutes were posted and made 
available the day after the request and the remainder were posted and made available within 16 
days of the request.   
 
II. The Committee Failed to Respond to an Open Meeting Law Complaint. 
 
The second complaint alleges that the Committee failed to timely respond to the first 
compl
aint.  The Open Meeting Law requires that, unless an extension has been granted by the 
Attorney General, within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, a 
public body must meet to review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; 
and send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken.  940 
CMR 29.05(5).  Upon the filing of an Open Meeting Law complaint with a public body, the chair 
“shall disseminate copies of the complaint to the members of the public body,” and “the public 
body shall review the complaint’s allegations.”  940 CMR 29.05(3), (5).  Thus, a public body 
must meet to review the complaint and formulate a response, or meet to delegate that authority, 
and respond to the complaint within 14 business days.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); see also OML 
2017-69; OML 2012-90.  A public body may review a complaint during a meeting and then 
authorize a designated individual, such as a town clerk, to prepare and send the response, or the 
individual may receive the complaint and draft a response for the public body to review at a 
meeting, but the public body may not remove itself entirely from the process.  See OML 2020-
164.  Furthermore, the public body is not required to discuss the complaint in any particular 
depth.  See OML 2017-149 (“That the Board may have chosen to refer the complaint rather than 
discuss its substance is the Board’s prerogative.”). 
 
Here,
 although the Town Clerk requested and was granted an extension of time for the 
Committee to respond to the first complaint, the Committee did not respond to the complaint.  
The Committee asserts that the Town Clerk’s June 21 letter requesting an extension of time to 
respond to the complaint constituted the Committee’s substantive response to the complaint; we 
do not read the extension request as such.  Moreover, even if the Town Clerk’s June 21 letter had 
been intended as a response to the first complaint, it would not have fulfilled the Committee’s 
obligations under the Open Meeting Law, as the Committee had not reviewed the first complaint 
===PAGE 4===
4 
during a meeting prior to that time.  Therefore, the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to properly respond to the first Open Meeting Law complaint. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We order immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements and we caution that 
similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  Where the 
requested meeting minutes have been posted and made available, we order no further remedial 
action. 
   
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Stephen Morgan (via email: ) 
Ashland Sustainability Committee (via email: mherbert@ashlandmass.com and 
jball@ashlandmass.com) 
 Cindy Livingstone, Town Clerk (via email: clivingstone@ashlandmass.com) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
