===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
February 28, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 31 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Brian W. Riley, Esq. 
KP Law 
briley@k-plaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
 
This office received a complaint from Jill Normandin on August 14, 2023,
1 alleging that 
the Westminster Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 27, and, after our office 
granted an extension of time, you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated June 28. We 
understand the complaint to allege that notices for meetings held on January 10, February 14, 
and March 7 were insufficient.
2 We further understand the complaint to allege that minutes for 
meetings held on January 10, February 14, March 7, and March 28 were also insufficient.3  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by creating 
insufficient meeting minutes. As explained below, we decline to review the sufficiency of the 
Board’s meeting notices. In reaching our determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, and the minutes of Board 
meetings held on January 10, February 14, March 7, and March 28. We also communicated with 
Town Counsel
4 and with the Complainant via email. 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The complaint references a December 13, 2022, meeting; however, it is unclear whether the complaint alleges that 
the notice for this meeting was insufficient. Regardless, for the reasons explained below, we would decline to review 
an allegation that the notice for the December 13, 2022, meeting was insufficient because such allegation would be 
untimely.  
3 The complaint also references a February 27 meeting. We note that after review of the Board’s meeting notices and 
minutes available online, it does not appear that the Board held a meeting on February 27.  
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
To begin, we decline to review the allegations regarding the sufficiency of the Board’s 
meeting notices. The Open Meeting Law requires that complaints be filed with the public body 
within 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4). If the alleged 
violation could not have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed 
with the public body within 30 days of the date on which the alleged violation could reasonably 
have been discovered. 940 CMR 29.05(4). Alleged violations that take place during an open 
session meeting can reasonably be discovered at the time they occur. See OML 2012-52.
5 
Because the latest of the meetings complained of—which was held on March 7—occurred more 
than 30 days prior to the complaint being filed with the Board, we decline to review the 
allegation that notices for these meetings were insufficient.
6 
 
Next, we review the allegation that minutes of the Board’s meetings held on January 10, 
Febr
uary 14, March 7, and March 28 were insufficient. The Open Meeting Law requires that a 
public body create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings “setting forth the date, time and 
place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes 
for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the 
accuracy requirement. See OML 2017-104; OML 2013-64. By substantial compliance, we mean 
that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who 
did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what 
occurred. See OML 2019-145; OML 2012-106. Although a transcript of the discussions is not 
required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented, minutes 
must include a substantive summary of the discussion on each topic. See OML 2018-8; OML 
2012-29; OML 2011-55. 
 
 The 
Complainant alleges that 1) the minutes of the January 10 meeting fail to sufficiently 
summarize discussion of a proposed change to “cluster zoning”; 2) the minutes of the February 
14 meeting fail to sufficiently summarize the discussions of a “cluster development” and an 
extension request for the Westminster Business Park Definitive Subdivision; 3) the minutes of 
the March 7 meeting fail to sufficiently summarize discussion of cluster zoning; and 4) the 
minutes of the March 28 meeting fail to sufficiently summarize Town Counsel’s opinion 
regarding a proposed zoning bylaw amendment (which the complaint alleges may have been 
read aloud) and fail to list the document containing Town Counsel’s opinion as a document used 
at the meeting. 
 
After reviewing the subject minutes, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged where the minutes note that discussions on topics occurred but fail to summarize 
the discussions. For example, the minutes of the January 10 meeting state, “[t]he Board 
discussed a change to the cluster zoning.” The minutes of the February 14 meeting state, with 
respect to a request for an extension, “P. McCarty explained to the Board the reason for the 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
6 Although the complaint references the Board’s March 28 meeting, we do not construe the complaint as alleging 
that the notice for the March 28 meeting was insufficient where the complaint does not identify any specific 
concerns with the notice for that meeting, but rather notes specific concerns only with the minutes of that meeting.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
extension request,” and, with respect to potential zoning bylaw amendments, “[t]he Board had a 
brief discussion on the amendments.” Finally, the minutes for the March 28 meeting state, with 
respect to a draft proposed short term rental bylaw amendment, “[t]he Board reviewed the final 
draft that included Town Counsel’s comments.” In each instance the minutes identify that 
discussions occurred but do not summarize the substance of the discussions.  
 
 We have previously explained to the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that  
pres
entations and discussions that occur at a meeting must be summarized in the meeting 
minutes. OML 2021-141. We reiterate that guidance here and further clarify that it is insufficient 
for meeting minutes to simply state that a discussion on a particular topic occurred; they must 
summarize the discussion. See OML 2023-130; OML 2020-57; OML 2019-167. Where the 
minutes of the Board’s January 10, February 14, and March 28 meetings fail to sufficiently 
summarize discussions that occurred, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. With respect to listing in the minutes documents that were used at the meetings, the 
Board acknowledges that it failed to list all documents used and notes that it has amended its 
minutes to correct this insufficiency.  
 
 Fi
nally, we find that the minutes of the Board’s March 7 meeting are not insufficient as 
alleged. We find that the sentence “after a quick discussion on timing the Board decided to table 
the cluster development proposed zoning bylaw amendment” sufficiently summarized that for 
reasons relating to timing the Board decided to table discussion of the cluster development bylaw 
amendment.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
creating insufficient meeting minutes where it failed to summarize discussions that occurred and 
failed to list all documents used at the meeting. We order the Board’s immediate and future 
compliance with the law and caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence 
of an intent to violate the Law. Additionally, we order the Board, within 30 days of the date of 
this determination, to amend the minutes of its meetings held on January 10, February 14, and 
March 28 to include a sufficient summary of the discussions held on all topics.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
cc: Westminster Planning Board, c/o Town Planner Tracy Murphy (via e- mail: 
tmurphy@westminster-ma.gov) 
Town Clerk Ellen Sheehan, (via e-mail: esheehan@westminster-ma.gov)   
Jill Normandin (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
