===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
November 29, 2021 
 
OML 2021 – 173 
 
 
Mark S. Gould, Jr., Esq. 
City of Taunton Law Department 
15 Summer Street 
Taunton, MA 02780 
 
By email only:  
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Gould: 
 
This office received a complaint from Kara Civale on March 30, 2021, alleging that the 
Taunton City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Council on February 18, and the Council responded 
by letter dated April 13.
 1, 2 
 
The complaint alleges that during the Council’s meetings in January and February, the 
Mayor muted herself during the public input portion of the meetings while she screened calls 
from members of the public, before unmuting herself and then allowing the callers to speak.  The 
complaint further alleges that on some occasions, and in particular during the Council’s January 
26 and February 16 meeting, calls from members of the public were not answered.  The 
complaint alleges that during the February 16 meeting the Mayor reported to the Council that 
there were no calls and the meeting proceeded without any public comment, despite at least 10 
members of the public unsuccessfully attempting to call in to the meeting to offer comment. 
 
  In its response, the Council disputes some of the allegations.  In particular, the Council 
asserts that during the January 26 meeting, five telephone calls were received and public 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 
2 We remind the Council that the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law Regulations 
require that, within 14 business days after receiving a complaint, a public body must meet to review the complaint’s 
allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the complainant a response and a description of any 
remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23; 940 CMR 29.05(5). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
comments made.  The Council asserts that during the February 16 meeting, 55 telephone calls 
were received and public comments made.  The Council acknowledges that some callers may 
have received a busy signal, but asserts that during that meeting the Mayor repeatedly advised 
that if any callers were unable to get through by phone they should continue calling, and the 
Council waited for additional calls before proceeding.  
 
After reviewing the complaint filed with the Council, the Council’s response, and the 
complaint filed with our office for review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law.  The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow public 
participation in a meeting.  See OML 2014-23; OML 2012-23.
3  To the contrary, the Open 
Meeting Law provides that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body without 
permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.”  G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(g).  Therefore, the Law gives the chair of the public body discretion to decide whether to 
permit public comment during a meeting, and if public comment will be permitted, to set 
restrictions on public comment.  See OML 2019-138; OML 2020-9; OML 2017-189; OML 
2014-23; OML 2012-78.  Nonetheless, we encourage public bodies to allow for as much public 
participation as time and circumstances permit. 
 
Because the Council was not required by the Open Meeting Law to include a public 
comment period during its meetings at all, we do not herein resolve the factual dispute regarding 
whether any, or how many, callers were permitted to offer comment during the January and 
February meetings.  We find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law regardless.   
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
cc: Kara Civale – By email only:  
Taunton City Council – By email only:  
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
 
 
 
 