===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
June 22, 2015 
OML 2015 - 85 
Connie Desbiens, Managing Agent 
Swansea Housing Authority 
100 Gardners Neck Road 
Swansea, MA 02777 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Desbiens: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins, dated April 30, alleging that the 
Swansea Housing Authority (the "Authority") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Authority on April 8, and the Authority 
responded by letter dated April 14. In his complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that the Authority 
improperly held an "emergency" meeting with fewer than 48 hours' notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Authority violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Authority's 
response; and the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed draft copies 
of the minutes of open and executive session meetings of the Authority held on April 7. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On or about February 1, the Authority listed for sale two 
homes it owned in the Town of Swansea. On April 2, the realtor handling the sales brought 
fifteen offers to the Authority's office for consideration. The two highest bids required that the 
Authority act on them no later than April 3. The chair of the Authority persuaded the bidders to 
wait until April 7 for the Authority to either accept or decline the bids. 
On April 6, the Authority posted notice for a meeting to be held on April 7, the following 
evening. The notice labels the meeting "Emergency." The meeting notice lists one anticipated 
discussion topic: "Discussion of the sale of HUD homes." The meeting notice indicates that this 
discussion "[m]ay be possibly done in executive session." On the evening of April 7, the 
Authority first convened in open session and then entered executive session to discuss the 
proposed real estate transactions. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, "except in an emergency.. .a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays." G.L. c. 3 OA, § 20(b). In case of an emergency, the public body should post 
notice of the meeting as soon as reasonably possible. Id, An "emergency" is defined as "a 
sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding immediate action." 
G.L. c. 3 OA, § 18. The burden of justifying the need for an emergency meeting lies with the 
public body. See OML 2012-7; OML 2010-6. 
Here, the Authority did not post notice of its April 7 meeting at least 48 hours in advance, 
even though the Authority had notice of the bids on April 2, five days before the meeting. Even 
with the intervening weekend, the Authority could have met the 48-hour posting requirement. 
While the Authority stated that the Chair could not get all Authority members to commit to 
attending the April 7 meeting before April 6, we find that this circumstance is insufficient to 
qualify as an "emergency" for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. Where a public body has at 
least 48 hours' notice of circumstances that are likely to require deliberation, it is not an 
emergency. See OML 2011-45. Emergency meetings are reserved for circumstances that are 
unanticipated and require an immediate response to, for example, protect public safety or health. 
Id. While the inability to convene a quorum of a body prior to a deadline may be unexpected, we 
have stated before that this is not "a sudden or generally unexpected occurrence" under the Open 
Meeting Law. See OML 2013-92. We therefore find that the Authority violated the Open 
Meeting Law by convening its April 7 meeting without posting notice at least 48 hours in 
advance of this meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Authority violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that 
similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Additionally, 
we order the Authority to review the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Training Video #2: 
Meeting Notices and certify to our office within thirty (30) days of this letter, using the attached 
form, that it has done so. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Authority. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 The Attorney General's Open Meeting Law training videos may be found here: 
http://www.mass.gov/ago/govemment-resources/open-meeting-law/video-trainings/ 
2 
===PAGE 3===
cc: Patrick Higgins 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Certification of Compliance with Order 
1 hereby certify that 1 have read the Attorney General's determination 
(print name) 
number OML 2013-85 and, pursuant to the order therein, reviewed the Attorney General's 
Open Meeting Law Training Video #2: Meeting Notices on . 
(date) 
Board Member Signature Date 
4 