===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
March 27, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 47 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Gary P. Howayeck 
Assistant Corporation Counsel 
City of Fall River 
lawoffice@fallriverma.org  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Howayeck: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on January 18, 2023, alleging that 
the Fall River Licensing Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on December 14, 2022, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated January 13, 2023. The complaint alleges that the 
Board failed to announce the names of the businesses it approved for liquor license renewals 
during its December 12, 2022, meeting and that the Board failed to timely respond to a request 
for the minutes of the November 16, 2022, meeting.
1 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
failed to timely respond to a request for minutes. We do not find a violation of the Law in the 
other ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Board’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also 
reviewed the video recording of the December 12 meeting and email correspondence with Board 
counsel dated March 10, 2023. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board’s notice for its December 12 meeting included a 
list of 12 categories of liquor licenses with an attached list of establishments seeking liquor 
license renewal. The attachment included the names of the specific establishments, with 
corresponding addresses and license numbers. The December 12 meeting was held as planned. 
The Board voted to renew the liquor licenses by category, announcing each of the 12 categories 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
and then voting on the renewals by category. All the liquor licenses listed in the attachment were 
approved for renewal. 
 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post 
notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting and include a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to 
list topics in a meeting notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a topic 
sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand 
the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35.
2 
 
 The complainant a lleges that the Board did not announce the names of each 
establishment seeking liquor license renewal. The Open Meeting Law does not require that a 
public body discuss any particular matter nor that it discuss a matter in any particular depth. 
Rather, the Law requires that if a quorum of a public body discusses a matter within its 
jurisdiction it must do so only during a meeting for which notice was posted and that is open to 
the public, unless a permissible reason exists to discuss the topic in executive session. See G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(a). Therefore, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it announced 
the categories of licenses but not the names of each establishment seeking renewal of its liquor 
license.  
 The complainant also alleges that the Board did not timely respond to a request for 
meetin
g minutes. The minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft 
form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 days.” See G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(c). The complainant alleges that he requested minutes of the Board’s November 16 meeting 
on November 18 and that the Board did not provide a response to him within 10 days. He then 
filed his complaint with the Board on December 14. In its response, the Board stated that the 
November 16 meeting minutes had not been finalized and were not expected to be approved until 
January 2023. The Board was still required to respond to the request within 10 calendar days 
with an explanation of whether the minutes did or did not exist, and if they did exist in either 
approved or draft form the Board was obligated to provide the minutes. See OML 2018-154; 
OML 2017-50; OML 2016-71; OML 2015-173. Because the Board failed to respond to the 
request within 10 days, we find that it violated the Open Meeting Law by not timely responding 
to a request for minutes.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it failed to timely respond to a request for meeting minutes. We order the Board’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a 
determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-m eeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. The Board has provided the complainant with the 
requested minutes and therefore we do not order any further remedial action. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Mary L. Nguyen 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via e- mail: ) 
 Fall
 River Licensing Board (via e-mail: licensingboard@fallriverma.org) 
 Fall River Town Clerk (via e-mail: city_clerks@fallriverma.org) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
