===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 29, 2016 
OML 2016-112 
Brandon Moss, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410 
Quincy, MA 02169 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint- Amended 
Dear Attorney Moss; 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty on May 27, alleging that the 
Hyannis Fire District Board of Commissioners (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about April 
6, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, to the complaint by letter dated May 27. In his 
complaint, Mr. Beaty alleges that the notice for the Board's April 6 meeting failed to include 
sufficient detail about an executive session and failed to include "open session" as a topic. 
On August 17, we issued a determination resolving this complaint in which we found 
that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law because the complaint appeared to have 
been filed prior to the April 6 meeting, which was scheduled for 5 PM. Because we believed 
the complaint had been field prior to the meeting, we found that the Board could not have 
violated the Open Meeting Law for insufficient notice. See OML 2015-109.2 The 
complainant, however, has since explained that the time stamp of 4:06 PM on the complaint 
was sent by an online fax service located on the West Coast, thus the time stamp was Pacific 
Standard Time. Therefore, the complaint was actually filed with the Board at 7:06 PM on 
April 6, after the Board's meeting. Based on this error, the complainant requested that our 
office reconsider our determination. Because we now find that the complaint was filed after 
the Board's April 6 meeting, we amend this determination and find that the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
requesting further review. We also reviewed the notices of, and the minutes from, the Board 
meetings held on April 6 and May 26.3 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board timely posted notice of a meeting scheduled 
for April 6 for the sole purpose of holding an executive session. The notice listed the topic as 
follows: "Executive Session To Take Action on Real Estate Matters," below which it 
indicated that the Board "will not meet in public session." The Board held the meeting and 
discussed an offer to purchase Board-owned property located at 501 Scudder Avenue in 
executive session.4 According to the minutes, prior to the executive session, the Board 
approved a motion by roll call vote to "convene in Executive Session to discuss the proposal 
received for the sale of the 501 Scudder Avenue property." The Board did not indicate 
whether it would reconvene in open session. During the executive session, the Board voted to 
accept the offer and authorized the chair to execute the deal, including signing the Purchase 
and Sales Agreement, on behalf of the Board. In response to this complaint, during an open 
meeting held on May 26, the Board held a re-vote of the one taken in executive session on 
April 6. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b). Notices must include 
"a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." Id. 
The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues 
to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). Public bodies may enter a closed, 
executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, provided that 
the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for the executive 
session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for 
which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); see also District 
Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Way]and, 455 Mass. 561, 567 ("[a] precise statement 
of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting law 
because that is the only notification given to the public that the school Board would conduct 
business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was 
proper or improper."). This level of detail about the executive session topic must also be 
included in the meeting notice. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b). 
One purpose for executive session is "[t]o consider the purchase, exchange, lease or 
value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect 
3 We note that the Board did not create a separate set of open session minutes from its April 6 meeting. We 
remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that minutes be created for both open and executive 
session minutes, even when the open session discussion concerns only the procedural steps for entering 
executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22. While the minutes may be a combined document, they must 
accurately distinguish between open and executive session so that they may be segregated if a request is made 
and the executive session minutes are withheld from disclosure. See OML 2016-26; OML 2013-155. 
4 The Board disclosed this information to the public during its May 26 meeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
on the negotiating position of the public body." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) (Purpose 6). The 
Open Meeting Law requires a public body to first convene in open session; obtain a majority 
vote to enter executive session, by a roll call vote recorded in the minutes; state the purpose 
for executive session, including all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the 
purpose for the executive session; and state whether the meeting will reconvene in open 
session following the executive session. See G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(b). 
The complaint alleges that the Board's April 6 meeting notice violated the Open 
Meeting Law because it failed to list "open session" on the notice and failed to include a 
sufficient description of the anticipated executive session topic. We agree. When the only 
business to be discussed during an open session is the procedural requirements for entering 
executive session, listing "open session" on the meeting notice is the only means by which 
members of the public are informed that a public body will, in fact, hold an open meeting that 
they are permitted to attend. See OML 2015-105; OML 2013-9. Without such notice, 
members of the public are essentially denied the opportunity to attend and learn the reasons 
for the executive session. See OML 2013-195. Here, the Board's notice informed the public 
that it would not meet in open session, which contradicts the law's requirement that all 
meetings start in open session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). Based on the minutes, however, it 
does appear that the Board began its meeting in open session and followed the procedural 
requirements for convening in executive session.5 Accordingly, by failing to indicate on the 
meeting notice that it would first convene in open session, the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law. 
We also find that the notice lacked sufficient detail about the anticipated executive 
session discussion. When posting notice of an anticipated Purpose 6 discussion, our guidance 
to public bodies has been that the executive session topic should include a sufficient 
description of the anticipated executive session, such as the statutory citation and/or the 
language used in the statute, along with information about the specific property to be 
discussed, if such disclosure does not compromise the Board's negotiating position. See 
OML 2016-96; OML 2016-94; OML 2016-5. Based on this guidance, the topic listed on the 
notice, "Executive Session To Take Action on Real Estate Matters" may have been sufficient 
if disclosure of the property would have been detrimental to the Board's position. However, 
because the Board disclosed the name of the property in its announcement in open session 
immediately preceding the closed door discussion, providing this information on the notice 
would not have compromised the Board's negotiating position. See OML 2016-95. 
Accordingly, we find that the Board violated the law. We commend the Board for taking 
prompt remedial action during its May 26 meeting by holding a new vote to ratify its April 6 
action. 
5 We note that, although the Board complied with most of the procedural requirements for convening in 
executive session, the Board should have announced whether it would reconvene in open session immediately 
following the executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Because of the procedural deficiencies, the Board may not continue to withhold the 
minutes under the Open Meeting Law.6 See G.L c. 30A, §22(f) ("The minutes of any 
executive session . . . may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety ... as long 
as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer; 
provided, however, that the executive session was held in compliance with section 21" 
(emphasis added)); OML 2015-16. The Board may, however, continue to withhold these 
minutes in whole or in part if an exemption to the Public Records Law or the attorney-client 
privilege applies. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to list "open session" as a topic and by failing to include sufficient detail about the 
executive session topic on its April 6 meeting notice. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that future similar violations may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. Additionally, we order the Board to release 
the April 6 executive session minutes, within 30 days of receipt of this determination, in 
accordance with the above guidance. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
cc: Ronald Beaty 
Hyannis Fire District Board of Commissioners 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
6 We also recommend that the Board promptly make the April 6 open session minutes public, if the Board has 
not done so already. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
4 