===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 23, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 152 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Jackie Zibrat-Long 
Chair, Monomoy Regional School Committee  
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Ms. Zibrat-Long: 
This office received a complaint on May 14, 2020,
1 from Karen Ryder alleging that the 
Monomoy Regional School Committee (the “Committee”) and Superintendent Scott Carpenter2 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with 
the Committee on April 9, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated April 
28. The complaint alleges that the Committee discussed a topic during its March 12 meeting that 
was not included on the meeting notice.  
 
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response, the 
request for further review, the notice for the March 12 meeting, a video recording of the March 
12 meeting,
3 and a letter submitted to our office by Seth Taylor. We also communicated with the 
Chair by email and with the Superintendent by email and phone.4 
  
 
 
 
1 All dates in this determination are in 2020, unless otherwise stated.  
2 The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and their members; therefore, we decline to review any 
allegations that the Superintendent violated the Law. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
3 A recording of the Committee’s March 12 meeting may be found at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q1-
M1RaYx1k.  
4 On October 26, we sent an email to the Complainant at the email address provided on the complaint form, but did 
not receive a response.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. At the Committee’s February 11 meeting, it discussed a 
citizen petition requesting that the Town of Chatham fund a feasibility study for a piece of Town 
property leased by the Monomoy School District and on which the Monomoy Regional Middle 
School is located. The purpose of the feasibility study was to determine if a portion of that 
property which runs along Stepping Stones Road would be a suitable site for a new Council on 
Aging building (the “Stepping Stones Project”). The citizen petition was to be voted on at a 
Special Town Meeting scheduled for March 7. This topic was included on the notice for the 
February 11 meeting.5 
 
At the Committee’s next meeting, held on February 27, a member of the public gave a 
presentation regarding the petition and the Stepping Stones Project. Thereafter, the Committee 
discussed thoughts and concerns it had with locating a new Council on Aging building on the 
property leased by the School District along Stepping Stones Road and ultimately voted not to 
support locating the new building at that location. Both the presentation and the Committee’s 
discussion were included on the notice for the February 27 meeting.  
 
On March 7, the Town of Chatham held a Special Town Meeting and voted to fund the 
feasibility study.  
 
The Chair of the Committee and the Superintendent worked collaboratively to create the 
notice for the Committee’s March 12 meeting, including determining the list of topics to be 
discussed, as was their usual practice. On March 2 the Committee posted notice for the meeting 
to be held on March 12. Included on the notice was the topic “G. Superintendent’s Report 1. 
International student trips over April vacation.” “Superintendent’s Report” is a recurring topic at 
Committee meetings during which the Superintendent provides information and updates to the 
Committee. The Committee’s notices do not typically include any detail under the heading of 
“Superintendent’s Report,” and the Superintendent usually uses this time to report factual 
information to the Committee or raise issues that have come up last minute.6 The Superintendent 
generally does not expect the Committee to discuss the items he raises during his report.  
 
After the Town of Chatham voted at the March 7 Special Town Meeting to fund the 
feasibility study for the Stepping Stones Project, the Superintendent anticipated that he would 
update the Committee on the result of that vote, though he did not expect that the Committee 
would engage in further discussion regarding the matter. Likewise, the Chair did not anticipate 
discussing the Special Town Meeting vote or the Stepping Stones Project because the Committee 
had no further role to play at that time.  
 
 
5 We note that where the Stepping Stones Project and related citizen petition were included on the Committee’s 
meeting notices, the Committee used the acronym “COA.” Our office discourages the use of abbreviations or 
acronyms that are not widely understood by members of the public. See OML 2020-137. 
6 For the notice of the March 12 meeting, the Superintendent and Chair decided to include a subtopic under the 
Superintendent’s Report to notify the public that the Superintendent would be discussing cancelation of upcoming 
student trips in light of the evolving pandemic. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
At the beginning of the Committee’s March 12 meeting, a resident of Chatham, Seth 
Taylor, provided public comment with respect to the Special Town Meeting vote, the 
Committee’s February 27 vote, and the Stepping Stones Project. Later in the meeting, during his 
report, the Superintendent formally informed the Committee of the result of the Special Town 
Meeting vote. At this point, several Committee members engaged in a discussion for 
approximately ten minutes regarding the Special Town Meeting, comments made by members of 
the public at the Special Town Meeting regarding the Committee and its members, and Mr. 
Taylor’s comments made that evening. The Committee then proceeded to discuss other matters. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law states, in relevant part, that “a public body shall 
post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting . . . Notice shall be printed in 
a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time and place of such meeting 
and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(b). The Open Meeting Law does not require the chair of a public body to 
anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of any discussion, but rather to list those 
topics that he or she reasonably anticipates will be discussed. See OML 2016-130; OML 2011-
36; OML 2011-23; OML 2011-13.7  
 
Where the chair delegates to another person responsibility for creating the meeting 
notice, we look to what that person anticipates will be discussed 48 hours before the meeting. 
See OML 2020-87; OML 2020-80; OML 2015-190. Although the chair may delegate the task of 
drafting meeting notices to another individual, such as an employee, the chair and the public 
body remain responsible for complying with the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2015-190. In 
prior determinations, when a meeting notice has included as a topic a report or presentation from 
a person who is not a member of the public body, such as “Superintendent’s Report” or 
“Administrator’s Report” or “Report from Department Heads,” we have declined to find a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law for lack of specificity where the public body chair did not 
anticipate the specific nature of the deliberations that took place. See OML 2018-33; OML 2017-
90. Nonetheless, best practice dictates that public body chairs solicit from public officials more 
detail regarding the topics to be discussed at the public body’s meeting under a “report” item and 
include on the meeting notice more detail regarding the precise matters to be discussed. See 
OML 2012-19 (noting that the notice topic “superintendent’s report,” followed by a statement 
that the Superintendent had his own items to discuss, was insufficiently detailed); OML 2020-44; 
OML 2017-184. 
 
Here, the Superintendent shared responsibility with the Chair for creating the notice for 
the March 12 meeting, and we therefore look to what both the Chair and the Superintendent 
anticipated would be discussed at the March 12 meeting. Although we credit the 
Superintendent’s account that he did not anticipate that the Committee would engage in a 
discussion concerning the Special Town Meeting vote, we find that the Superintendent 
 
7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
anticipated that he would discuss that topic during the meeting. Therefore, the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include the Special Town Meeting vote on the 
notice for its March 12 meeting.8  
 
Next we must determine whether this violation was intentional, as the Complainant 
alleges. An intentional violation is 
 
an act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation 
of M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25. Evidence of an intentional violation . . . shall 
include, but not be limited to, that the public body or public body member: (a) acted 
with specific intent to violate the law; (b) acted with deliberate ignorance of the 
law’s requirements; or (c) was previously informed by receipt of a decision from a 
court of competent jurisdiction or advised by the Attorney General, pursuant to 940 
CMR 29.07 or 940 CMR 29.08, that the conduct violates [the Law]. Where a public 
body or public body member has made a good faith attempt at compliance with the 
law, but was reasonably mistaken about its requirements, such conduct will not be 
considered an intentional violation. 
 
940 CMR 29.02. 
 
We find that the Committee did not intentionally violate the Law. We have not previously found 
that the Committee violated the Law in a similar manner, nor do we find any other evidence of 
an intent to violate the Law. Instead, we find that the Committee was mistaken regarding the 
legal standard for what topics must be included on meeting notices.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it discussed a topic anticipated to be raised by the Superintendent who shares responsibility 
for creating the Committee’s meeting notices. We order the Committee’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Law’s requirements and note that future similar violations may be 
considered evidence of an intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
 
 
 
8 The Superintendent has explained that he uses his report to the Committee to raise issues that have come up last 
minute. We remind the Committee that the Open Meeting Law requires only that topics anticipated for discussion 48 
hours in advance of the meeting be included on the meeting notice. Public bodies may discuss items that were not 
anticipated 48 hours in advance of a meeting, although when possible we encourage public bodies to postpone 
discussion on such matters until a future meeting when notice can be given. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). If the 
Committee posts notice more than 48 hours in advance and a new topic arises prior to the 48-hour window, the 
Committee must amend its meeting notice to include the new, anticipated topic. Id. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
 
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Karen Ryder (via e -mail:  
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
