===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 5, 2017 
OML 2017-184 
Robert S. Troy, Esq. 
Troy Wall Associates 
90 Route 6A 
Sandwich, MA 02563 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Troy; 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty on October 2, alleging that the 
Barnstable County Assembly of Delegates (the "Assembly") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Assembly on or about 
September 12, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Assembly, by letter dated 
September 28. In his complaint, Mr. Beaty alleges that, during its September 6 meeting, the 
Assembly discussed an anticipated topic that was not listed on the meeting notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Assembly did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Assembly's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. 
We also reviewed the notice and a transcript from the Assembly's September 6 meeting. 
Finally, we spoke with Assembly Speaker Suzanne McAuliffe by telephone on November 30. 
We find the facts as follows. Barnstable County has a bicameral governmental model 
in which the Assembly serves as the legislative branch and the Board of County 
Commissioners ("the County Commission") serves as the executive branch of government. 
The complainant is a County Commissioner. The County Commission provides a status 
report to the Assembly at each of the Assembly meetings. During the Assembly's September 
6 meeting. County Commission Chair Leo Cakounes, delivered such a status report to the 
Assembly on the status of the County Commission's business. This topic was listed on the 
notice as "Communications from the Board of Regional Commissioners." During this report, 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017. 
FACTS 
Cs 
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Cakounes informed the Assembly that the County Commission had discussed a code of 
ethical conduct for the County Commission; a topic which was raised by the complainant 
during the County Commission's August 23 meeting. Several delegates proceeded to discuss 
the topic with Mr. Cakounes. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must be 
printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of 
the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed. Id. The list of topics shall have "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03 (l)(b). We generally 
consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read 
the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 
2015-35.2 
The complainant alleges that, during its September 6 meeting, the Assembly discussed 
a code of ethical conduct that was not listed on its meeting notice. In support of this 
allegation, the complainant asserts that the Assembly anticipated the topic because it had 
discussed the topic months prior and Mr. Cakounes communicates with members of the 
Assembly between meetings. This topic arose during the County Commission's status report 
to the Assembly, listed on the notice as "Communications from the Board of Regional 
Commissioners." The Assembly Speaker did not speak with Mr. Cakounes about the topic 
before the meeting or otherwise anticipate that Mr. Cakounes would raise the topic, nor did 
she anticipate that it would prompt other delegates to discuss it. Because the topic was 
unanticipated, we find that the Assembly did not violate the Open Meeting Law by pursuing 
the brief discussion of the topic at its meeting. We encourage the Speaker, however, to solicit 
a more detailed set of topics from the County Commission for the meeting notice for such 
reports in the future. See OML 2017-90; OML 2011-23; OML 2013-111; see also OML 
2012-19 ("best practice dictates that the Chair make reasonable efforts to ascertain the 
specific topics the Superintendent plans to discuss and include all matters that are reasonably 
anticipated in the meeting notice"). 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Assembly did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Assembly. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ronald Beaty 
Barnstable County Assembly of Delegates 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 