===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
A ITORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
February 24, 2014 
OML 2014-18 
Patrick Costello, Esq. 
Louison, Costello, Condon, & Pfaff, LLP 
101 Summer St. 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Costello, 
This office received a complaint from Virginia Musker (the complainant) alleging that 
the Billerica Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint alleges that a subcommittee of the Board deliberated outside of a 
properly noticed meeting. The complaint was filed with the Board on November 6, 2013, and 
you responded on the Board's behalf by letter dated November 20, 2013.1 
In resolving this complaint, we reviewed the November 6, 2013 complaint filed with the 
Board; the Board's November 20, 2013 response; the December 12, 2013 complaint filed with 
our office; and the Billerica Board of Selectmen's Policies and Procedures. Additionally, we 
spoke on the telephone with Attorney Costello and the complainant in January and February 
Following our review, we find that a subcommittee of the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by meeting outside of a properly posted meeting. We order no additional relief, 
however, because the Board took appropriate remedial action in response to the complaint. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five member public body. The Board's 
internal Policies and Procedures set out the steps for review of the Town Manager's performance 
as part of the Board's consideration of his employment contract. The provisions relevant to this 
complaint read: 
' For the purpose of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
2014. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
13.8 After the public review of the Town Manager, the Chairman and one (1) 
Board member appointed by the Chairman, shall enter into negotiations 
with the Town Manager concerning, if applicable, an employment 
agreement, compensation, and/or changes to the Employment Agreement, 
compensation, etc. 
13.9 All recommended changes, if applicable, will be provided to each Board 
member no less than one (1) week prior to any public discussion and vote 
on same. 
In accordance with these procedures, at some point prior to October 21, 2013, the Chair 
and another member of the Board entered into negotiations with the Town Manager. No notice 
accompanied these meetings. 
Following public mention of these meetings during the Board's October 21, 2013 open 
meeting, this complaint was filed, alleging that a subcommittee had met without posting notice in 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. In response, the Board voted to nullify and disregard any 
action taken by the alleged subcommittee and to begin again the Town Manager review process. 
Furthermore, the Board pledged to conduct all future meetings with the Town Manager under 
§ 13.8 in compliance with the Open Meeting Law. 
DISCUSSION 
A threshold question raised by any alleged violation of the Open Meeting Law is whether 
the entity being complained against is a "public body" subject to the Open Meeting Law. The 
Open Meeting Law defines "public body" in relevant part as "a multiple-member board, 
commission, committee or subcommittee within . . . any county, district, city, region or town, 
however created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public 
purpose ..." G.L. c. 3OA, § 18. A subcommittee is "any multiple-member body created to 
advise or make recommendations to a public body." Id_ To determine whether a multiple-
member entity is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, there are three factors we 
consider which apply to all public bodies: 
1. The entity must be "within' government and not excluded from the definition of 
"public body"; 
2. The entity must be a "body" empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a "public purpose." 
The Board's Policies and Procedures created a multiple-member body within the town 
government (the Subcommittee). This group was responsible for negotiating with the Town 
Manager and recommending changes to his contract to the Board as a whole. Discussions of the 
Town Manager's employment status do serve a public purpose, thus this entity was a 
subcommittee subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
2 See OML 2010-1 for an explanation of this three part analysis. Open Meeting Law determinations can be found at 
the Attorney General's website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The Subcommittee did not post notice for its meetings held prior to the Board's October 
21, 2013 meeting. We find this failure to be a violation of the Open Meeting Law. In response 
to the complaint, the Board "voted to nullify, void, and disregard any and all such activities 
and/or any and all work of the Board and Town Manager" and reinitiated the evaluation process 
in accordance with the Open Meeting Law. We find this constituted appropriate remedial action, 
and decline to order any further relief. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board's Policies and Procedures created a 
subcommittee subject to the Open Meeting Law. The Subcommittee conducted business without 
properly posting notice of its meeting in violation of the Open Meeting Law. However, we find 
that the Board took appropriate remedial action in response to the complaint and order no 
additional relief. 
We now consider this matter closed. This determination does not address any other 
complaints that may be pending before this office or the Board. If you have any questions 
regarding this letter, please feel free to contact this office at (617) 963-2540. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Billerica Board of Selectmen 
Virginia C. Musker 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. BOA, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3 