===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
August 20, 2012 
OML 2012 — 77 
Mr. Mark L. Karlberg 
Town of Becket 
Board of Selectmen 
557 Main St. 
Becket, MA 01223 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Karlberg: 
This office received a complaint from Ms. Colleen O'Connor on September 27, 
2010, alleging that the Becket Board of Selectmen ("Board") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board failed to 
provide notice that it would appoint an Emergency Management Director ("EMD") and 
an alternate at its August 11, 2010 meeting, and that the Board did not publicly interview 
or discuss all of the candidates at an open meeting. The complaint was originally filed 
with the Board on or about September 8, 2010. The Board responded to the complaint on 
January 20, 2011, stating that it was unaware prior to that time of its legal obligation to 
respond to the complaint within 14 business days. 
In reaching our determination, we reviewed the September 8, 2010 complaint 
filed with the Board; the September 27, 2010 complaint filed with our office; the notice 
for the Board's August 11, 2010 meeting; a letter from the Town Clerk, George E. 
Roberts, dated September 8, 2010; a letter from Mr. Richard E. Furlong on behalf of the 
Board, dated January 20, 2011; and a letter written by the complainant to our office, 
dated February 4, 2011, requesting our further review of this complaint. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by appointing the EMD and an alternate without listing the topic in the notice for the 
Board's August 11, 2010 meeting. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. 
C) 
===PAGE 2===
On August 9, 2010, the Board posted a revised notice for its August 11, 2010 
meeting. The notice did not state that the Board would be discussing the appointment of 
the EMD or an alternate. During the Board's August 11, 2010 open session meeting, 
Selectman Bill Cavanaugh asked the Board and the municipal staff why the EMD 
appointment was not on the agenda. He did not receive a response. Selectman 
Cavanaugh was not the chair of the Board, and did not prepare the agenda. Selectman 
Cavanaugh then introduced the subject of the appointment of an EMD and an alternate, 
and stated that because the Selectmen had reviewed all of the candidates' applications, 
including a candidate who had submitted a letter of interest that night, he was ready to 
call a vote to make the EIVID appointment. Acting Town Administrator Richard Furlong 
advised the Board that it could appoint the EMD under the "any other business to come 
before the Board" item on the agenda. Acting on that advice, Selectman Cavanaugh 
motioned to appoint specific candidates as the EMD and the alternate, and the motion 
passed. Ms. O'Connor then publicly addressed the Board stating that she "did not have a 
problem with the appointments," but "felt that the Open Meeting Law was violated 
because the decision of who to appoint was done behind closed doors, and was not on the 
agenda, even though both appointees were present at the meeting, having been notified 
by Mr. Cavanaugh before the meeting." Selectman Cavanaugh acknowledged to the 
Board and public present at the meeting that he knew whom he wanted to appoint as 
EMD and alternate, and asked them to come to the meeting, but stated that he did not 
speak with the other two Selectmen about his decision prior to the meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
At issue in the complaint is whether the Board improperly discussed the 
appointment of the EMD and an alternate during its August 11, 2010 meeting. The Open 
Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting 
and include, a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Thus, a public body may only discuss a topic that 
was not included in the meeting notice if the chair did not reasonably anticipate 
discussion of that topic at least 48 hours before the meeting. $ee OML 2012-3. 1  
Although a public body may consider a topic that was not listed in the meeting notice if 
unanticipated, the Attorney General strongly encourages public bodies to postpone 
discussion and action on topics that are controversial or may be of particular interest to 
the public if those topics were not listed in the meeting notice. $ee id.; OML 2012-19. 
The Board posted notice for the August 11, 2010 meeting at least 48 hours before 
the meeting, but did not list the appointment of the EMD or an alternate as a topic for 
discussion. Although Selectman Cavanaugh reasonably anticipated that the Board would 
discuss and possibly appoint the candidates for EMD, Selectman Cavanaugh was not the 
chair of the Board. The chair of the Board did not reasonably anticipate the appointments 
because Selectman Cavanaugh did not communicate to the chair that he would be raising 
the appointments that night. Therefore, the chair was not required to include the topic in 
the meeting notice, and the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
1  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.govlagolopenmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
With regard to Ms. O'Connor's allegation that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by discussing the appointments prior to the August 11, 2010 meeting, we 
find no evidence to support this allegation. The Open Meeting Law prohibits 
communication between and among a quorum of a public body on any matter within the 
public body's jurisdiction, if conducted outside of a properly noticed meeting. See G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18. Selectman Cavanaugh specifically stated during the Board's August 11, 
2010 meeting that he never discussed EMD candidate preferences with the other Board 
members prior to that night's open meeting, and we have not been presented with any 
evidence to the contrary. Although the Board did not discuss the candidates that 
Selectman Cavanaugh put forth before voting to approve them, we find no evidence that 
deliberation occurred prior to the open meeting. 
As a final matter, we note that the Board took more than three months to respond 
to Ms. O'Connor's complaint. The Open Meeting Law requires that, within 14 business 
days after receiving a complaint, unless an extension has been granted by the Attorney 
General, a public body must review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if 
appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description 
of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). We remind the 
Board that it must comply with these requirements and respond to Open Meeting Law 
complaints within 14 business days. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe 
any facts in this letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
onathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Colleen O'Connor 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or 
any member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through 
an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 