===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 6, 2024  
  
OML 2024 – 230 
VIA EMAIL  
  
Dennis J. Teehan, Jr. 
Chair, Dedham Select Board 
450 Washington Street  
Dedham, MA 02026 
 
Selectboard@dedham-ma.gov 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Chair Teehan:  
 
This office received a complaint from Brian Keaney on August 26, 2024, alleging that the 
Dedham Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint originally was filed with the Board on July 3.1  The Board did not formally reply 
to the complaint.  However, on behalf of the Board, Attorney Lauren Goldberg responded to the 
complainant via email, briefly addressing the allegations and asking that Mr. Keaney consider 
withdrawing the complaint, which he declined to do.  The complaint alleges that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law when it failed to review minutes of executive sessions at 
reasonable intervals to determine whether continued non-disclosure was warranted. 
 
Following our review, we do not find that the review itself was not performed but find 
that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include in minutes the results of that 
review.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint, emails exchanged between 
the complainant and the Board, Assistant Town Manager Nancy Baker and Attorney Goldberg, 
and the complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed minutes of open session 
held during the first six months of 2024. 
 
DISCUSSION 
   
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2024. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The Law further requires that minutes 
of executive sessions be “review[ed]” “at reasonable intervals” to determine whether continued 
nondisclosure is warranted.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1).  See also Swansea 
Board of Selectmen v. Attorney General, Civil Action No. 2173CV00906 (Bristol Sup. Ct. 
December 27, 2023); OML 2024-37; OML 2024-29.2  The results of this review must be 
announced at the body’s next meeting and the announcement must be included in the minutes of 
that meeting.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1).   
 
On June 7, 2024, our office resolved a prior Open Meeting Law complaint that 
Mr. Keaney filed with the Board.  See OML 2024-112.  As we explained in the 
determination resolving that complaint, we have found a quarterly review or a review 
every six months to be appropriate to satisfy the requirement that a body review minutes 
of executive sessions “at reasonable intervals.”  Id.  See also OML 2020-101; OML 
2019-45; OML 2017-104.   
 
 In our investigation of this complaint, we have reviewed 12 sets of open session minutes 
of meetings held from January through June 2024.  Our review of these minutes reveals that on 
February 29, the Board entered executive session to review minutes of the executive sessions of 
“January 18, 2024 and/or February 12, 2024.”  However, the results of this review are not 
included in the minutes of the next meeting, which was held on March 13.  Presumably, the 
results were not announced at the March 13 meeting, since no such announcement is reflected in 
the minutes.  We find, therefore, that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
announce the results of its review of executive session minutes in open session and/or by failing 
include in minutes the results of its review of executive session minutes.
3 
 
  Having found a violation, we must deter mine whether the violation was, as the 
complainant urges, intentional.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or 
omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting 
Law].”  940 CMR 29.02.  An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted 
with deliberate ignorance of the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain 
conduct violates the Open Meeting Law.  Id.  As noted above, this is not the first complaint that 
Mr. Keaney has filed with the Board concerning executive session minutes.  See OML 2024-112.  
Nonetheless, although it presents a close question, we decline to find an intentional violation.  
The determination issued on June 7 concerned a request for executive session minutes, and not 
an allegation of failure to comply with requirements surrounding review of executive session 
minutes.  Notwithstanding our decision not to find this violation intentional, we urge the Board 
to strictly comply with the Open Meeting Law’s requirements regarding executive session 
minutes.  Future violations of the same kind may result in a finding of an intentional violation 
and may result in a fine of up to $1,000.  940 CMR 29.07(3)(d). 
 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 Paradoxically, minutes of the Board’s April 11 open session note that the Board approved executive session 
minutes of January 19 and February 12, months after executive session minutes of January 18 and February 12 were 
purportedly reviewed for release.  We need not resolve this incongruity: either the Board failed to review executive 
session minutes at reasonable intervals or, if it did review the minutes at its meeting on February 29, it failed to 
memorialize the results of that review.  Either way, it violated the Open Meeting Law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 Finally, although not necessary for this determination, we take this opportunity to correct 
misunderstandings about the Open Meeting Law held by the complainant and the Board.  Mr. 
Keaney complains in passing that minutes are not posted online and that a spreadsheet of 
executive sessions has not been maintained.  As we previously have advised the complainant,4 
the Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to post meeting minutes or to maintain a 
spreadsheet of executive session minutes online.  See OML 2024-82; OML 2015-173; OML 
2013-117.   
 
Additionally, although we commend the progress that the Board has made in becoming 
current on minutes, we caution the Board against relying entirely on an outside vendor to prepare 
meeting minutes, especially when that vendor may not be familiar with the requirements of the 
Massachusetts Open Meeting Law.  If draft minutes are prepared by such a vendor, they should 
be reviewed and revised for conformance with the Law, as the Board ultimately is responsible 
for complying with the Law.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it failed to announce and/or record in the minutes the results of its review of executive 
session minutes at reasonable intervals in conformance with the Open Meeting Law.  We order 
immediate and future compliance with the Law’s requirements and we again caution that similar 
future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  We now consider the 
complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address 
any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board.  Please feel free to 
contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
  
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
cc: Brian Keaney (via email: ) 
 Dedham Selectboard (via email: sel
 ectboard@dedham-ma.gov)  
Town Manager (via email: lgoodwin@dedham-ma.gov)  
Lauren Goldberg, Esq. (via email: lgoldberg@k-plaw.com) 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
 
4 See OML 2024-112. 
