===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 6, 2024 
  
OML 2024 – 229 
 
VIA EMAIL  
  
Ronald E. Aponte 
Town Administrator 
Town of Brookfield 
6 Central St. 
Brookfield, MA 01506 
 
townadministrator@brookfieldma.us 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Mr. Aponte:  
 
This office received two complaints from Dave Holdcraft on August 14, 2024 and one 
complaint from Christopher Kelleher on October 7, 2024, alleging that the Brookfield Select 
Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  Mr. Holdcraft 
originally filed his complaints with the Board on May 30 (“the May 30 Complaint”) and July 18 
(“the July 18 Complaint”) and you responded on its behalf on June 24 and August 8, 
respectively.  Mr. Kelleher originally filed his complaint with the Board on July 22 and you 
responded on its behalf on October 3.  The complaints allege that (1) the notices of the Board’s 
May 30 and July 18 meetings were not sufficiently specific; (2) the Board did not respond to the 
May 30 Complaint in a timely manner, and acted improperly in other ways in response to Open 
Meeting Law complaints; and (3) Board member Richard Chaffee made false accusations against 
Christopher Kelleher.2   
 
Following our review, we find that notice of the May 30 meeting was not sufficiently 
specific but that notice of the July 18 meeting was sufficiently specific as to the discussion item 
“Maureen Lepak’s Complaint.”  We also find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it failed to respond to Mr. Holdcraft’s May 30 Complaint in a timely manner.  We decline 
to review the remaining allegations of the complaints.  In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s responses to the complaints, and the complainants’ 
 
1 Hereinafter, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2024 unless otherwise indicated. 
2 The third allegation is raised by Mr. Kelleher only. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
requests for further review.  We also reviewed the notices and minutes of the Board’s meetings 
of May 30 and July 18. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. Notice of the May 30 Complaint was not sufficiently specific. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s 
discussion.  See OML 2023-3; OML 2019-134; OML 2015- 35.3  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an 
informed decision whether to attend the meeting to observe the discussion regarding a topic of 
interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22.  Notice topics which incorporate  
abbreviations or acronyms that are not widely understood by members of the public may be 
found to be insufficiently specific.  See OML 2023-83 (without context, “MASC” not widely 
understood by members of the public to stand for Massachusetts Association of School 
Committees); OML 2016-5 (“PILOT” not widely understood to stand for Payment In Lieu Of 
Taxes); OML 2015-197 (“TRRP” not widely understood to stand for Temporary Repair to 
Private Roads Policy).  Cf. OML 2015-172 (“FAA” widely understood acronym). 
 
On May 28, the Board posted notice of a meeting to take place on May 30.  That notice 
included a topic “HCA fees.”  The meeting went forward as scheduled, and, as reflected in 
minutes of the meeting, the Board discussed fees under Host Community Agreements.  In its 
response to the May 30 Complaint, the Board acknowledges that the acronym “HCA” is not 
sufficiently specific to describe a discussion of Host Community Agreements.  We agree, and 
find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it posted insufficiently specific notice 
of its May 30 meeting. 
 
II. The topic “Maureen Lepak’s Complaint” included in the notice of the July 18 
meeting was sufficiently specific. 
 
 When a notice topic does not reasonably inform the public of the true nature of the 
discussion, we have found it to be insufficiently specific.  See, e.g., OML 2019-89 (notice topics 
“Host Agreement,” “Land Development,” and “Non- Opposition letter” insufficient to 
reasonably inform public of anticipated discussion of marijuana establishment); OML 2024-69 
(notice topic “Planning Board decisions” insufficient to reasonably inform public of anticipated 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
discussion of one member’s allegedly improper contact with permit applicants); OML 2023-24 
(notice topic “A favorable Ordinance Committee report: Chapter 7 Ordinance Revisions” 
insufficient to reasonably inform public of anticipated discussion of raises for city councilors).  
On July 3, the Board posted notice of a meeting to take place on July 18 at 7:00 p.m.  As last 
modified on July 16, the notice listed 17 items of discussion, including “Discussion regarding 
Maureen Lepak’s Complaint.”  This discussion item concerned an Open Meeting Law Complaint 
filed with the Board by Maureen Lepak.  The complainants allege that this item is vague and 
lacks sufficient detail.  We have previously stated that when a public body will discuss an Open 
Meeting Law complaint, the notice should include some identifying information about the 
complaint, such as the name of the complainant.  See OML 2022-220; OML 2013-82.  Although 
the public would have been better informed had the notice topic clarified that the complaint was 
brought pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, in this instance we find that the notice topic was 
sufficiently specific where it identified the complainant by name.  We therefore find that this 
topic satisfied the Open Meeting Law.   
 
The complaints seem to suggest that other items of discussion on the notice of the July 18 
meeting also were insufficient.  Open Meeting Law complaints must allege violations with a 
degree of specificity, as our office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on 
generalized allegations.  See OML 2022-111; OML 2016-57; OML 2012-106.  Of the 16 
remaining topics, none is deficient on its face such that we would find a violation of our own 
accord, and we decline to fully investigate the sufficiency of each topic without any explicit 
allegation from the complainants. 
 
III. The Board did not respond to the May 30 Complaint in a timely manner. 
 
Within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, a public body must meet to review the 
complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the complainant a 
response and a description of any remedial action taken.  940 CMR 29.05(5).  The public body 
also must send a copy of the complaint to the attorney general and notify the attorney general of 
any remedial action taken.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b).  In the July 18 Complaint, Mr. Holdcraft 
alleges that the Board did not respond to the May 30 Complaint in the time allowed under the 
Law.4  The Board agrees that its response was not timely and has apologized for the delay.5  
Therefore, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it failed to respond to 
the May 30 Complaint in a timely manner.   
 
Christopher Kelleher also maintains that the Board should not even have reviewed the 
Open Meeting Law complaint filed by Maureen Lepak, as it was founded on his actions as a 
Board member and he had resigned by the time the complaint was filed.  Nothing within the 
Open Meeting Law prohibits review of a timely filed Open Meeting Law complaint once the 
member accused of the violative act resigns; to the contrary, a public body is obligated to 
 
4 Mr. Holdcraft suggests that he filed multiple complaints with the Board on May 30.  We found only one complaint 
dated May 30 filed with our office. 
5 The Board’s contrition notwithstanding, we note that the Board responded to Mr. Kelleher’s complaint almost two 
months after the response due date without any request for an extension of time or explanation for the delay.  Going 
forward, we will expect the Board to strictly adhere to the Law’s requirements when responding to an Open Meeting 
Law complaint. 
===PAGE 4===
respond to every properly filed Open Meeting Law complaint. Finally, Mr. Kelleher alleges that
during the Board's July 18 meeting, Richard Chaffee made misrepresentations about him that
were "highly damaging to [his| reputation." He further alleges a pattern of harassment by Mr.
Chattee. The Division of Open Government's review concerns compliance with the Open
Meeting Law. We decline to review allegations of defamation and harassment, as these
allegations fall outside the Open Meeting Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law
when it posted insufficiently specific notice of its May 30 meeting and when it failed to respond
to the May 30 Complaint within the time set forth in the Open Meeting Law. We order the
Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law. We caution that a future
finding that the Board has violated the Open Meeting Law in any of the manners addressed
herein may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law and may result in a civil penalty of
up to $1,000 per violation. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to
be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with
our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have
any questions.
Sincerely,
Matt you
Matthew Lindberg
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Dave Holdcraft (via email:
Christopher Kelleher (via email:
Brookfield Select Board (via email: selectmen@brookfieldma.us)
Brookfield Town Clerk (via email: mseery@brookfieldma.us)
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
4