===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
May 13, 2013 
OML 2013 — 61 
Bruce P. Gilmore 
Town Counsel 
Town of Chatham 
99 Willow Street 
Yarmouthport, MA 02675 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Gilmore: 
This office received a complaint from Timothy Hunter, dated April 5, 2012, alleging that 
the Chatham Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about March 5, 2012, and the 
Board responded to the original complaint by letter dated March 19, 2012. In his complaint, Mr. 
Hunter alleges that on February 21, 2012, the Board discussed and took action on a topic that 
was not listed on its meeting notice. 
In resolving this complaint, we reviewed the March 5, 2012 and April 5, 2012 
complaints; the Board's March 19, 2012 response to the original complaint; the meeting notice 
and the minutes for the February 21, 2012 meeting; the minutes for the Board's February 14, 
2012 meeting; and the video of the February 21, 2012 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing and taking action on a topic that was not listed on its February 21, 2012 meeting 
notice because the discussion and subsequent vote were not reasonably anticipated by the Chair. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. The Board 
met in open session on February 21, 2012. The posted notice for the meeting included the 
following topic and sub-topic: "I. Old Business . . . A. FY2013 Budget Review." As the Board 
discussed topics related to the Fiscal Year 2013 budget, Selectman Sean Summers suggested the 
Board consider whether or not to move Chatham Fire Department dispatch operations to the 
Barnstable County Sheriff's Office. Mr. Summers noted that the Board had considered this issue 
tt) 
===PAGE 2===
in previous years and held discussions on the subject at recent meetings. Chairman Florence 
Seldin then stated, "I think we could take a vote on it." 
The Board discussed the benefits and drawbacks of moving dispatch operations, 
considering the overall costs and potential savings. After forty-five minutes of discussion, the 
Board voted to move Chatham Fire Department dispatch operations to the Barnstable County 
Sheriffs Office and to reflect this change in the Fiscal Year 2013 budget. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b), states in relevant part that, "[e]xcept in an 
emergency, in addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice 
of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays . . . Notice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain 
the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." Any topic discussed at a meeting that was 
reasonably anticipated by the chair of the public body must be listed in a meeting notice at least 
48 hours in advance of the meeting. Id. Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting 
notice with, "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). However, topics that arise less than 48 hours before the 
meeting may be considered by the public body, even if they were not listed in the meeting notice, 
if they were not reasonably anticipated. See OML 2011-36. 1  
Here, the Board discussed and voted on a topic at its February 21, 2012 meeting that was 
not listed in the meeting notice—the move of Chatham Fire Department dispatch operations to 
the Barnstable County Sheriffs Office. The complaint alleges that, "This move has more than 
just budget ramifications but also effects the way Chatham Fire Department operates[,] and the 
Selectmen made a policy decision without proper notice." Although the topic of relocating 
dispatch operations was discussed in Board meetings preceding the February 21, 2012 meeting, 
there is no evidence that the chair anticipated, or could have reasonably anticipated it would be 
raised by a member of the Board during the "FY2013 Budget Review" portion of the meeting. 
The Board's consideration of the Fiscal Year 2013 budget included a wide range of topics, and 
any number of issues had the potential to arise during the course of the discussion. The Open 
Meeting Law does not require that the chair guess which topics might be raised by Board 
members, only that the public body list in the meeting notice those topics "reasonably anticipated 
by the chair." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice, minutes, and video recording of the February 
21, 2012 meeting support our determination that this issue was not reasonably anticipated by the 
chair. 
We therefore find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing and 
voting on the move of Chatham Fire Department dispatch operations to the Barnstable County 
Sheriffs Office. However, we remind the Board that the Attorney General strongly encourages 
public bodies to postpone discussion and action on topics that may be of particular interest to the 
public if those topics were not listed in the meeting notice. See OML 2011-31. 
I  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by discussing and taking action on a topic that was not listed on its February 21, 2012 
meeting notice. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office 
or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
or believe any facts in this letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Chatham Board of Selectmen 
Timothy Hunter 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3 