===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
Arro RNEY GENERAL 
June 1, 2012 
OML 2012 - 41 
Peter L. Ebb 
Ropes & Gray LLP 
Prudential Tower 
800 Boylston Street 
Boston, MA 02199 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Ebb: 
This office reviewed a complaint from Charles Kadlec and Allen Nitschelm, filed with 
our office on June 22, 2011, alleging that the Acton School Committee and the Acton- 
Boxborough Regional School Committee (collectively, "the Committees"), as well as their 
Negotiating Subcommittee ("NSC"), violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
Specifically, the complaint asks our office to review whether: 1) certain redactions in publicly 
released executive session minutes are allowed under the law; 2) minutes that have been redacted 
for attorney/client privilege are in fact covered by the privilege; 3) executive session minutes 
contain sufficient detail as required by the law; and 4) supporting documents used by the 
Committees during executive session meetings were not properly listed in the minutes as 
required by law. Additionally, the complaint seeks the public release of certain documents 
related to the Committees' financial assessments of a collective bargaining agreement. The 
complaint was filed with the Committees on April 27, 2011. The Committees responded to the 
complaint on May 18, 2011. 
We reviewed the April 27, 2011 complaint filed with the Committees; the Committees' 
May 18, 2011 response; and the June 22, 2011 complaint filed with our office. We also 
reviewed the open and executive session minutes for a number of the Committees' meetings held 
between October 2009 and March 2011, including the redacted and unredacted versions of the 
Committees' joint executive sessions on October 29, 2009 and October 7, 2010. 
Following our review, with respect to the complainants' four requests, we find as follows. 
The complainants' first request asks us to review whether the purpose for the Committees' 
collective bargaining executive sessions has been served, necessitating the release of redacted or 
===PAGE 2===
withheld minutes. We fmd that the executive session purpose has not expired, therefore 
continued non-disclosure is permissible. The second request asks our office to review whether 
documents that were redacted for attorney/client privilege have been properly withheld. We are 
unable to respond to this request. The Open Meeting Law authorizes the Attorney General to 
investigate a complaint alleging a violation of the law, and request documents in the course of 
that investigation. However, the law provides that the Attorney General may not require a public 
body to disclose "any documentary material which would be privileged." G.L. c. 30A, § 24(e). 
If our office is concerned that a privilege claim is not valid, and we believe that an Open Meeting 
Law violation has occurred, we may file an Open Meeting Law complaint in Superior Court and 
seek judicial review of that claim. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(f). Here, the Committees provided our 
office with a privilege log detailing each meeting for which the executive session minutes 
continue to be withheld on the basis of the attorney/client privilege. Based on the information 
provided, we have no reason to doubt that the Committees' claim of attorney/client privilege is 
valid. If the complainants disagree with the Committees' determination that these documents are 
privileged, they may file an Open Meeting Law complaint in Superior Court to challenge the 
Committee's decision to withhold the minutes, and request the court to review the privileged 
documents. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(f). 
Finally, with respect to the third and fourth requests in the complaint, we find that while 
many of the minutes contain sufficient detail to meet the requirements of G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a), 
several were deficient, in violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
FACTS 
Between January 2009 and April 2011, the Committees and the NSC held meetings to 
negotiate a collective bargaining agreement with the Acton Educators Association ("AEA") and 
two other bargaining units. Some of those meetings occurred in executive session. Following 
the conclusion of the negotiations with the unions, the complainants requested all of the minutes 
from the Committees' executive sessions, as well as documents related to the deliberations. The 
Committees provided the complainants with approximately 800 pages of documents. However, 
the Committees withheld or redacted several executive session minutes because they believed the 
discussions were protected from disclosure by the attorney/client privilege, or because the 
Committees determined that the executive session purpose had not expired. Specifically, the 
Committees determined that certain minutes reflected strategic considerations, the disclosure of 
which might have a detrimental effect on the Committees' future negotiating positions. The 
Committees provided a complete list of all minutes withheld from the public and the reasons for 
their non-disclosure. 
Citing the attorney/client privilege, the Committees withheld from disclosure the 
executive session minutes of the March 4, 2010, May 3, 2010, July 28, 2010, and March 11, 
2011 meetings. Additionally, again citing the attorney/client privilege, the Committees redacted 
portions of the executive session minutes of their August 12, 2009, October 5, 2009, June 3, 
2010 and January 26, 2011 meetings. The Committees redacted portions of the executive session 
minutes from their October 29, 2009 meeting, declaring that the executive session purpose for 
collective bargaining continues to apply, as the nature of the discussion has an on-going strategic 
importance to the Committees' collective bargaining position. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The NSC met in executive session on November 13, 2009, February 23, 2010 and March 
8, 2010, each time with counsel present for the purpose of providing legal advice. The NSC also 
met in executive session on January 24, 2011, without counsel. The minutes of these executive 
sessions have been publicly released, and copies were provided to this office by the 
complainants. The January 24, 2011 minutes state, in part, that "[t]he AEA presented the 
[Negotiating Subcommittee (NSC)] with a proposal. The NSC discussed the elements of the 
proposal and made a counter-offer to the AEA. The AEA was disappointed in the counter offer. 
The NSC continued to discuss the strategy of the counter offer." This description constituted the 
entire summary of a three and one-half hour meeting of the NSC. 
The complainants also provided our office with the now publicly released minutes of the 
Committees' joint executive session on November 4, 2010, to highlight an example where the 
Committees failed .to identify a speaker in the minutes. The minutes state, in part, that "[o]ne 
NSC member stated that it is important to bring clarity of the AEA contract's impact on the 
budget by deciding now what the plans are for the Administrators and other non-union staffing, 
so those numbers are fixed." 
The executive session minutes from the Committees' October 7, 2010 meeting were 
publicly released, with redactions, on April 2, 2011. The executive session minutes from the 
Committees' October 29, 2009 meeting have also been publicly released, with redactions, 
although we do not have a record of the release date. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body may enter executive—or closed—session for one of ten purposes. G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a). Among the ten purposes for executive session is Purpose 3, which allows a public 
body to enter executive session to "discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or 
litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating 
position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). 
A public body must create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The minutes must include the meeting "date, time and 
place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made arid the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes." Id. The minutes of any executive session, as 
well as the notes, documents, and exhibits used during the executive session may be withheld 
from disclosure to the public as long as "publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the 
executive session, but no longer." Id. at § 22(f). Once the purpose for which the executive 
session was held has been served, the minutes, preparatory materials and documents and exhibits 
used at the session shall be disclosed, "unless the attorney-client privilege or 1 or more of the 
exemptions under [the Public Records Law] apply to withhold these records, or any portion 
thereof, from disclosure." Id. 
1. The Purpose for the Committees' October 7, 2010 Executive Session has Expired; The 
Purpose for the October 29, 2009 Executive Session Continues to Apply 
3 
===PAGE 4===
The complaint asks our office to review whether certain meeting minutes may continue to 
be withheld under executive session Purpose 3 or the attorney/client privilege. We reviewed the 
Committees' joint October 29, 2009 and October 7, 2010 executive session minutes, which we 
understand are the only minutes still being withheld from public disclosure solely because of the 
Committees' determination that executive session Purpose 3 has not yet expired. According to 
the Committees' July 18, 2011 letter, the redacted portion of the October 7, 2010 minutes 
referred to ongoing litigation matters, which have since been resolved. This executive session 
purpose appears to have expired, therefore, necessitating the Committees' review of the October 
7, 2010 minutes and release of those minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the 
executive sessions, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records law 
applies. 
The Committees continue to withhold portions of the October 29, 2009 executive session 
minutes because the Committees have determined that the minutes' public release may have a 
detrimental effect on their ongoing bargaining relationship with labor unions representing school 
employees. We have reviewed the unredacted October 29, 2009 executive session minutes, in 
camera, and have determined that the executive session purpose has not yet expired. Purpose 3 
allows a public body to enter executive session to "discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or 
litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). The 
Open Meeting Law and case law interpreting the statute do not provide guidance as to when the 
purpose for protecting a public body's collective bargaining position has been served, requiring 
the release of minutes. The complainants argue that the executive session purpose has been 
served once the collective bargaining agreement has been made final by the parties. The 
Committees note, however, that some discussions in executive session touch upon long-term 
strategy that, if revealed, could harm the Committees' future bargaining position with respect to 
subsequent collective bargaining agreements with the same unions. 
We believe that the Open Meeting Law allows a public body to continue to withhold 
executive session minutes even after a final collective bargaining agreement has been reached, if 
the public release of those minutes could have a detrimental effect on the public body's 
collective bargaining position in future negotiations with the same party. However, they may not 
be withheld indefinitely. At some point, the public interest in transparency will outweigh the 
potential for harm to the public body's future collective bargaining position. After each 
subsequent collective bargaining agreement is reached, therefore, the burden on the public body 
to release the executive session minutes of the older sessions increases. Here, after reviewing the 
October 29, 2009 executive session, we believe that the Committees have met this burden and 
may continue to withhold the minutes. However, they must periodically review the minutes, and 
will have to release them at some time in the future. We encourage the Committees to review 
the minutes after the next bargaining cycle and consider their public release at that time. 
2. The Attorney General is Unable to Review the Minutes and Other Documents for Which 
the Committees Assert the Attorney/Client Privilege  
The complaint asks our office to review minutes and documents that were redacted or 
withheld by the Committees on the grounds of attorney/client privilege. The complainants state 
in their undated letter, received by this office on June 22, 2011, that "[w]e recognize that legal 
4 
===PAGE 5===
advice may be potentially withheld; however, we ask that a third party determine whether the 
specific withholdings and redactions involve true legal advice." Specifically, the complainants 
are looking for the Attorney General to review the redacted or withheld minutes from the 
Committees' August 12, 2009; October 5, 2009; March 4, 2010; May 3, 2010; June 3, 2010; July 
28, 2010; January 26, 2011 and March 11, 2011 meetings. 
The Open Meeting Law states that minutes, preparatory materials, documents and 
exhibits of an executive session shall be disclosed "unless the attorney-client privilege or 1 or 
more of the exemptions under [the Public Records Law] apply to withhold these records, or any 
portion thereof, from disclosure." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). When investigating a complaint, the 
Attorney General cannot "require the disclosure of any documentary material which would be 
privileged, or which for any other reason would not be required by a subpoena duces tecum 
issued by a court of the commonwealth." G. L. c. 30A, § 24(e). If our office is concerned that a 
privilege claim is not valid, we may seek judicial review of that claim. Here, the Committees 
provided our office with a privilege log detailing each meeting for which the executive session 
minutes continue to be withheld on the basis of the attorney/client privilege. Based on the 
information provided, we have no reason to challenge the Committees' claim of attorney/client 
privilege. If the complainants disagree with the Committees' determination that these documents 
are privileged, they may file an Open Meeting Law complaint in Superior Court, and seek 
judicial review of the privileged documents. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(f). 
3. The Committees' Executive Session Minutes Substantially Complied with the  
Requirements of the Open Meeting Law, though the Minutes of at Least One Meeting did 
Not Contain Enough Detail  
The complaint alleges that the executive session minutes of several meetings did not 
contain a sufficient amount of detail as required by the Open Meeting Law. The complainants 
note that the minutes of the Committees' November 4, 2010 meeting fail to identify the specific 
Committee members who spoke, though the minutes summarize their opinions. The 
complainants also argue that the minutes of the Committees' November 13, 2009, February 23, 
2010, and January 24, 2011 meetings contained insufficient detail. 
The current Open Meeting Law, found at G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, took effect on July 1, 
2010. Prior to that date, the Open Meeting Law required a public body to maintain minutes, but 
did not specify the level of detail required. We therefore decline to review whether minutes from 
meetings that occurred prior to July 1, 2010 contain sufficient detail. 
The current law does specify what information must be included in meeting minutes, 
however. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22. For all meetings occurring after July 1, 2010, minutes must 
include the "date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions 
on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made 
and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
While the minutes must contain a summary of the discussion of each subject, they do not need to 
be a transcript of the meeting. The minutes do not need to identify each speaker, so long as a 
member of the public can read the minutes and understand from the summary the nature of the 
discussion and how the public body arrived at its decisions. 
5 
===PAGE 6===
The minutes from the NSC's January 24, 2011 meeting clearly fall short of this standard. 
The January 24, 2011 minutes state, in part, that "The AEA presented the [Negotiating 
Subcommittee (NSC)] with a proposal. The NSC discussed the elements of the proposal and 
made a counter-offer to the AEA. The AEA was disappointed in the counter offer. The NSC 
continued to discuss the strategy of the counter offer." A member of the public cannot read those 
few sentences and understand what occurred over the course of the three and one-half hour 
meeting. The minutes should include details of the NSC's proposal, the counter-offer, the 
AEA's concerns, and the discussion of strategy. 
The current version of the law also requires that minutes contain a list of documents and 
other exhibits used at the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, 22(a). The minutes from the NSC's January 24, 
2011 meeting failed to include a list of the documents used by the Committees. We note that the 
Committees did include such a list in other minutes, such as in the October 7, 2010 meeting 
minutes. 
Finally, we note that the complainants request that the Committees provide certain 
documents related to the Committees' financial assessments of the approved AEA contract. This 
request appears to seek documents that were not used by the public body during an open 
meeting. Such requests must be directed to the Secretary of State's Public Records Division, 
which enforces the Commonwealth's Public Records Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e); G.L. c. 66, 
§ 10(b). 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committees may continue to withhold from the public certain executive 
session minutes to protect the Committees' collective bargaining position with respect to future 
negotiations. However, the minutes may not be withheld indefinitely, and must be publicly 
disclosed when the public interest in transparency outweighs the potential harm to the 
Committees' bargaining position. We are unable to resolve the complaint challenging the 
Committees' claim to attorney/client privilege. Finally, we find that the January 24, 2011 NSC 
meeting minutes to lack the detail required by the Open Meeting Law. We order the 
Committees' immediate and future compliance with the law, and order the NSC to create and 
approve complete minutes of its January 24, 2011 meeting within sixty (60) days of receipt of 
this letter. 
We appreciate the cooperation of the parties during this investigation. We now consider 
this matter closed. Please contact me if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Govermnent 
cc: Charles Kadlec 
Allen Nitschelm 
6 